FILE COPY
Report No. 1306-SW
Swaziland Rural Development Project
Appraisal Report
January 12, 1977
Eastern Africa Region
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units     =        Emalangeni (E) or Rand (R) L(E- R)
US$1.00            =        E  0.87
E 1.00             =        US$1.15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                          British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                        =  3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                     -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2            '  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )              0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                    = 2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                           0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)               =  2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB           African Development Bank
AU             Animal Unit
CCU      =     Central Cooperative Union
CRDB     =     Central Rural Development Board
CTO      =     Central Transport Organization
CDC      =     Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA     =     Canadian International Development Agency
EDF      =     European Development Fund
ODM      =     Overseas Development Ministry - UK
PWD      =     Public Works Department
RDA            Rural Development Area
RDO      =     Rural Development Officer
SDSB     =     Swaziland Development and Savings Bank
USAID    =     United States Agency for International Development
UNDP     =     United Nations Development Program
UBS      3     University of Botswana  and Swaziland
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
/1 The Lilangeni (pl. Emalangeni) was introduced as the local currency in
September, 1974; the Rand is also legal tender in Swaziland.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUM4ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..             .  .............................. .  i-iii
I. INTRODUCTION ..............................                                    1
II.  BACKGROUND         .....................................                      2
A. General ......................                                      2
B.  The Agricultural Sectcr ........................                   5
C.  Crop and Livestock Marketing and Processing   ....                 6
D.  Rural Development Programs .. ......  ............                 6
E.  Government Services and Training ....             ...........      7
F.  Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives  ....           .......       9
G.  Rural Social Services ..........................                  11
III.  THE PROJECT .............................................                    11
A.  General Description .           ............................      11
B.  The Project Area ...............................                  12
C.  Detailed Features .. ............................                 14
D.  Project Costs ..................................                  17
E.  Financing ...... ................................                 19
F. Procurement                        ...    20
G.  Disbursement ...................................                  21
H.  Accounts and Audit ..........            ...................      21
I.  Environmental Impact .....           ......................       23
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................                    22
V.  PRODUCTION, MIARKETING, FARM INCOME, GOVERNMENT BENEFITS..                   27
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......... .. ..........                  29
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........ .. ........                  31
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission to Swaziland
in June, 1976, composed of K. Mlarshall, S. Capoluongo (IBRD), K. Landskroner,
and A. Vilakazi (consultants).
This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2
ANNEXES
1.  Agriculture and Livestock - Sector Review
Table  1 -  Summary of Characteristics of Geographic Regions
Table  2 -  Climate Histograms
Table  3 - Rainfall data - 1975
Table  4 -  Slope Categories:  General Statement of Potential
Table  5 -  Land Use, 1973-74                     1
Table  6 -  Crop Production - 1972/73 - Cropping Pattern and
Volume of Production
Table  7 -  Swazi Nation Land:  Area and Production of
Crops - 1971/72 - 1973/74.
Table  8 - Average Yields of Major Crops on Swazi Nation Land
by Region - 1972/73 - 1973/74.
Table  9 - Maize Area Cultivated, Production and Yield
Table 10 -  Seed Cotton Production - 1963/1964 to 1973/1974.
Table 11 -  Tobacco Production - 1960/61 to 1974/75.
Table 12 -  Vegetable Production
Table 13 -  Swaziland Livestock Numbers - 1971-75.
Table 14 -  Census of Cattle 1948-1975.
Table 15 -  Cattle Herd Structure - 1975.
Table 16 -  Details of Fattening and "SISA" Breeding Ranches.
Table 17 -  Origin and Disposition of Cattle at Fattening Ranches.
Table 18 -  Holdings Reporting Cows and Milking Cows - 1974.
2. Rural Development Programs
Table  I -  ODM Land Purchase Scheme - List of Areas Purchased or
Under Negotiation
Table  2 -  ODM Rural Development Areas Program - Physical Achievements
and Project Submission Targets for 1975
Table  3 - Rural Development Areas - Sale of Inputs
Appendix 1. Rural Development Projects and Programs
3. Land Tenure and Sociological Background
Table 1 - Development and Utilization of Freehold Title Farms by
Ecological Area
Table  2 - Swazi Nation Land Holdings - Characteristics
Table  3 - Swazi Nation Land - Number and Area of Holdings
4. Marketing, Processing, and Prices, Crops and Livestock
Table I - Maize - Production, Imports, Consumption, Values and Prices
Table  2 - Cotton Lint Prices - South African Custom Union, 1970-75
Table  3 - Beef Production, Exports, and Consumption
Table  4 - Marketing and Slaughter of Cattle



-3-
ANNEXES
Table  5 - Cattle Slaughter 1969-1975
Table  6 - Beef Exports - Country of Destination
Table  7 - Exports of Animal Products
Table  8 - Exports of Agricultural Products, 1971-74
Table  9 - Raw Materials used in Processing Agricultural
Products
Table 10 - Production of Processed Agricultural Products 1970-74
Table 11 - Value, Volume, and Destination of Principal
Agricultural Exports 1973-74
5. Institutions Involved in Rural Development
Appendix 1. Order by Ngwenyana in Libandla - Order No. 4 of 1954
Creating the Central Rural Development Board
6. Training and Manpower Requirements for Rural Development
Table 1 - Field Officer Demand and Supply Projections
7. Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives
Table  1 - SDSB - Comparative Balance Sheets
Table  2 - SDSB Loan Portfolio
Table  3 - Registration of Cooperative Societies
Table  4 - Agricultural Credit Usage
8.  The Project Area
Table  I - Characteristics of Proposed Project Rural Development Areas
Table  2 - Cropping Pattern in Proposed RDA's
Table  3 - Characteristics of RDA's in ODM-financed Rural Development
Program
Appendix 1. Soil Classification
9. Rural Social Services
10. Project Agricultural Production Estimates
(a) Agricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and
Outputs
Table  1 - Local Maize
Table  2 - Hybrid MIaize
Table  3 - Cotton
Table  4 - Tobacco
Table  5 - Potatoes
Table  6 - Beans
Table  7 - Groundnuts



-4-
ANNEXES
(b) Estimated Gross margins per hectare
Table 8 - Estimated Gross Margins
(c) Herd Projections - Technical Parameters
Table 9 - Cattle Production
(d) Incremental Production in Project RDA's
Table 10 - Incremental Production
Table 11 - Financial and Economic Prices
11. Development Projections
(a) Extension Services and Infrastructure
Table I  -  Fixed Investments - Vehicles and Equipment
Table 2  -  Fixed Investments - Buildings and Installations
Table 3  -  Fixed Investments - Summary
Table 4  -  Operating Costs - Wages and Salaries
Table 5  -  Operating Costs - Other Recurrent Costs
Table 6  -  Operating Costs - Summary
Table 7  -  Extension Services and Infrastructure
Summary of Investment Costs.
(b) Livestock Development
Table 8 - Fixed Investments
Table 9 - Recurrent Costs
Table 10 - Livestock Development - Summary of Investment Costs.
(c) Land Development and Consolidation and Conservation Works
Table 11 - Development Costs
Table 12 -  Maintenance Costs
Table 13 -  Land Development and Conservation Works
Summary of Investments.
(d) Crop Inputs
Table 14 - Incremental Investment Costs.
(e) Agricultural Credit Services
Table 15 - Fixed Investments
Table 16 - Recurrent Costs
Table 17 - Agricultural Credit - Summary of Investments.



-5-
(f) Road Development
Table 18 - Investment Costs
(g) Social Infrastructure
Table 19 - Fixed Investments
Table 20 - Recurrent Costs
Table 21 - Social Infrastructure: Summary of Investments
(h) Project Management Services
Table 22 - Investment Costs
(i) Technical Services
Table 23 - Investment Costs
12. Summary of Project Costs
Table 1 - Summary of Annual Project Costs
Table 2 - Project Financing Plan
13. Project Management
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference, Technical Advisers
14. Project Implementation Procedures
Table 1 - Project Implementation Plan
15. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
16. Government Finance
17. Government Project-Related Funds Statement
18. Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
19. List of Principal Project-Related Documents
CHARTS
Ministry of Agriculture IBRD 16390
Proposed Project Organization
MAPS
IBRD 12360
IBRD 2940R3






SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Swazi agriculture displays an unusually sharp duality between an
intensive, modern, largely foreign owned and managed farming sector, and the
traditional subsistence sector. Most subsistence farmers are concentrated on
about 57% of Swaziland's land area known as Swazi Nation land; here, tradi-
tional authority aid land tenure systems prevail. Despite recent economic
growth, largely fueled by agriculture development, Swazi Nation land farmers
have not shared in the nation's prosperity, and for many years Government
agricultural programs neglected them. Since before independence in 1968, the
Swazi Government has engaged in rural development schemes aimed to improve
agriculture and upgrade social services on Swazi Nation land. Current rural
development areas are supported by the U.K. Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM), and cover about 7% of Swazi Nation land. Use of inputs and production
of crops have increased significantly in these areas, and the Government's
approach is supported both by farmers and traditional authorities.
ii.       The proposed Project would form part of the on-going rural develop-
ment program, which would be expanded from four Rural Development Areas
(RDA's) to 14 RDA's covering about 60% of traditionally farmed Swazi Nation
land, over five years. Development would be undertaken in three phases:
a land use and investment planning phase, a preliminary development phase
entailing the development of centers, services, and provision of inputs, and
an intensive development phase involving soil conservation and land develop-
ment, land consolidation and resettlement, livestock development, and pro-
vision of full agricultural and social services. IBRD has been asked to fi-
nance development in ten of these rural development areas; ODM has agreed
to continue and expand its program in four areas. The Project would specif-
ically include development of extension services and infrastructure, improve-
ment of traditional livestock in RDA's and encouragement of destocking of
communal pastures, and soil conservation through land development. Further,
agricultural inputs would be provided to farmers, and agricultural credit
services strengthened to expand credit usage. Roads and rural social
services would be developed in RDA's. Finally, central management services
for national rural development programs would be strengthened, and technical
assistance, training, studies, and monitoring and evaluation would be provided.
iii.      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility
for Project implementation and for ensuring effective coordination with
other ministries and agencies concerned, notably the Swaziland Development
and Savings Bank (SDSB), the Central Cooperative Union(CCU), the Central
Rural Development Board (CRDB) and the Ministries of Health and Finance.
Most services of the Ministry of Agriculture would be directly involved
in Project implementation, and their activities would be coordinated by
an RDA management unit. An interministerial coordinating committee would
be established including representatives of all ministries and agencies
concerned.



- ii -
iv.       Total ProJect costs are estimated at E 14.9 million (US$17.1 mil-
lion), of which US$10.4 million or 61% would represent foreign expenditures.
The proposed IBRD loan of US$4.0 million would be to the Government of Swazi-
land; it would carry interest at 8.5% a year, and would be repayable over
20 years including 4.5 years of grace. The loan would finance about 26% of
total Project costs (excluding taxes). The African Development Bank (Nigerian
Trust Fund) has agreed to provide a loan of US$5.4 million equivalent to
finance part of the Project; the loan would carry interest at 4% repayable
over 25 years, including five years grace, and would finance most Project civil
works and operating costs for livestock developments and agricultural credit
services. The European Development Fund would provide a grant equivalent to
US$2.9 million, which would finance all costs of extension services (except
buildings) in the eight less intensive RDA's, incremental agricultural inputs,
Project training costs, and technical assistance. ODM has agreed to provide
technical assistance for the Project valued at about US$300,000. Financing
of Project components would be on a parallel basis; the co-financing part-
ners have agreed that the Project will be implemented as a fully integrated
operation, and that they would cooperate closely during Project implementa-
tion. Local sources in Swaziland would finance 18% of net Project costs. Of
this amount, the Government's contribution would amount to about 16% of total
Project costs (net of taxes) and farmers would contribute about 2% of Project
costs. Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment (US$1.4 million)
and fencing materials (US$0.4 million) exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts fcr goods and services costing less than US$50,000 would be awarded
following Government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. Land
development work, including terracing (US$1.9 million) would be carried out
by the Land Development section of the Ministry of Agriculture by force
account. In view of their small size, remoteness and dispersed location, all
of these civil works would be unlikely to attract international bids.
v.        Increased output in Project RDA's would be derived primarily from
increased production of a range of crops and increased productivity of cattle.
Maize production would increase by about 17,000 tons, cotton by 3,000 tons,
and vegetables by about 7,000 tons. Increased crop production would result
principally from raising yields on existing farms through more intensive
cultivation, improved farming methods, and use of more inputs; increases in
cultivated areas would also augment production. Increasing emphasis would
be placed on cash crops (cotton, tobacco, rice, vegetables), but active exten-
sion of hybrid maize should enable families to satisfy consumption require-
ments with less land, thus freeing larger parts of holdings for cash crop
production. Land consolidation and terracing of arable areas should con-
tribute to raising yields by making farming more efficient. Livestock de-
velopment programs should increase the productivity of traditional cattle
herds in the two intensive RDA's; productivity increases would result prin-
cipally from efforts to destock pastures, but also from better herd manage-
ment and pasture development (rotational grazing, upgrading through use of
improved bulls, bush clearing, artificial pastures). Marketed offtake



- iii -
should increase, and weight and grade should improve with better management.
Incremental sales of cattle are estimated at 3,000 head a year in year 6 and
5,000 head a year by year 20. Some additional milk production should result
from Project extension efforts.
vi.       The economic rate of return from the Project is estimated at
between 20 and 25% over 20 years. The rate of return is most sensitive to
delays in field level implementation and to shifts in price relationships
between production inputs and crops. The proposed Project does not entail
substantial risks, largely because it is based on successful on-going pro-
grams. The degree of success of the Project will, however, depend on the
effectiveness of extension efforts and receptivity of farmers, and on the
rate at which physical developments can be implemented. A further risk is
that services and infrastructure will not be maintained following the invest-
ment period. The Project includes measures to minimize these risks through
provisions for central management, training, technical assistance, and em-
phasis on cooperation with Swazi Nation authorities. Further, annual dis-
cussion of work programs should permit adaptation of the Project as experi-
ence warrants. The Project offers good prospects for improving services and
raising incomes in the poorest areas of Swaziland very substantially, and
developments should be readily replicable in areas of Swaziland not covered
under current development schemes.
vii.      An estimated 125,000 people would benefit from the Project, both
from increased cash income and subsistence production, and from improved
social services. The population affected would represent the lowest income
group of Swaziland, and current family cash incomes are exceedingly low
(US$115-280); while they compare with current GNP per family of at least
US$3,000 (most of it cash incomes), these figures are not very meaningful
given the sharp duality of the economy and dominant role of large expatriate
firms and farmers. Project investments in agriculture should increase labor
input in Project RDA's by the equivalent of 2,500 man-years a year. Most
civil works would be labor intensive and would employ an estimated 500 addi-
tional persons during the construction period.
viii.     This would be the first Bank Group supported project for agriculture
and rural development in Swaziland. An irrigation project for the Mapobeni
area was turned down by the Bank/IDA following appraisal in 1973-74, because
of high costs and a low rate of return, the high level of technical expertise
required, and sociological difficulties.
ix.       The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IBRD loan
of US$4.0 million at 8.5% interest repayable over 20 years including 4.5
years grace.






SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Agriculture dominates the economy of Swaziland, and over 90% of the
population lives in rural areas. Swazi agriculture displays an unusually
sharp duality between an intensive, modern, largely foreign owned and managed
farming sector and the traditional subsistence sector. Most subsistence far-
mers are concentrated on about 57% of Swaziland's land area known as Swazi
Nation land; here, traditional authority and land tenure systems prevail.
Despite recent economic growth, largely fueled by agricultural development,
Swazi Nation land farmers have not shared in the nation's prosperity. Since
before independence in 1968, the Swazi Government has engaged in rural devel-
opment schemes supported by the UK, aimed to improve agriculture and upgrade
social services. Development programs have been concentrated to date in
rural development areas (RDA's), 1/ where the Government has begun detailed
land use planning, intensified agricultural and social services, undertaken
soil conservation works, and provided agricultural inputs and credit. Cur-
rent rural development areas cover about 7% of Swazi Nation land; use of
inputs and production of crops have increased significantly in these areas,
and the Government's approach is supported both by farmers and traditional
authorities.
1.02      The proposed Project would form part of the on-going rural devel-
opment program (para. 3.03 and Annex 2), which would be expanded from four
RDA's (where the UK Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) has financed devel-
opment) to a total of 14 RDA's covering about 60% of traditionally farmed
Swazi Nation land, over five years. Development would be undertaken in
three phases: a land use and investment planning phase, a preliminary de-
velopment phase entailing the development of centers, services, and provi-
sion of inputs, and an intensive development phase involving soil conserva-
tion and land development, land consolidation and resettlement, livestock
development, and provision of full agricultural and social services. IBRD
has been asked to finance development in ten new RDA's; ODM has agreed to
continue its program in four areas which will be expanded.
1.03      This would be the first Bank Group supported project for agricul-
ture and rural development in Swaziland. An irrigation project was turned
down by the Bank/IDA following appraisal in 1973-74, because of high costs
and a low rate of return, the high level of technical expertise required,
and sociological difficulties.
1.04      The proposed Project was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture,
with assistance from the IBRD Resident Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA).
Preparation was based on the on-going Rural Development Program financed
1/   RDA's are areas of Swazi Nation Land (para. 2.06) designated for
intensive development efforts.



- 2 -
by ODM, with related activities financed by UNDP, USAID, and ILO/SIDA.
Principal modifications agreed upon during appraisal related to phasing
of investments, modification of land development proposals, and Project man-
agement. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Swaziland in June, 1976 composed of K. Marshall and S. Capoluongo
(IBRD) and K. Landskroner, and A. Vilakazi (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      ihe Kingdom of Swaziland, the second smallest country in Africa
(17,368 km ), is surrounded by the Republic of South Africa and Mozambique;
a landlocked country, it nevertheless has good access to seaports, via Maputo
and Durban, and to major market centers in South Africa. Swaziland has a
long-standing relationship with South Africa, and is a member of the Rand
Monetary Area and the South African Customs Union. The total population of
Swaziland, estimated at about 525,000 in 1976, is growing at an annual rate
of about 3.2%. Of the 90% of the population living in rural areas, about
70% live in scattered homesteads on Swazi Nation Land, still closely bound
by Swazi traditional ways of life. The remaining rural population lives on
freehold title land, most of it owned and farmed by expatriate Sompanies or
farmers. Average population density is about 28 persons per km .
2.02      Swaziland has prospered since achieving independence in 1968.
Average per capita GNP was estimated at US$470 in 1975, and GDP growth
averaged about 7% per annum since the mid-1960's. The economy is relatively
diversified: agriculture and manufacturing account for about 35% and 15%
of GDP, respectively, while mining contributes just under 10%. The potential
for further economic growth and expansion is good given underexploited
resources, notably in agriculture, and the proximity to markets in South
Africa.
2.03      Recent economic development in Swaziland has accentuated the
severe dualism which is a dominant feature of the economy: the modern
sector accounts for over 80% of GDP and wage employment, and is expanding
rapidly; the traditional sector, in contrast, has remained virtually stag-
nant. While subsistence agriculture contributed about 14% of GDP in 1974,
50% of the population were entirely dependent on subsistence farming and
cattle rearing. Data on income distribution is poor, but it is clear that
it is highly skewed between the modern sector, including many non-Swazis,
and the traditional subsistence sector, which has benefitted very little
from recent economic growth. Rural-urban income gaps, however, are not
very significant, largely because of the existence of a prosperous modern
agricultural sector; nor are disparities in income among regions very marked.
The sharpest disparities lie between the traditional Swazi farmers, virtually
all on Swazi Nation land, and both expatriates and Swazis employed in the
modern sector, whether in towns or rural areas.



- 3 -
2.04      Swaziland's diversified economy is in part the product of geography,
for there are four markedly distinct topographic regions, each extendiug
from north to south (see map and Annex 1): (i) the Highveld (5,200 km )
in the west, a mountainous region of pins forests and steep valleys and high
rainfall; (ii) the Middleveld (4,700 km ), an area of fertile soils and
rolling gEasslands with rainfall of about 1,200 mm. a year; (iii) the Lowveld
(6,200 km ), further East, a low-lying lower rainfall area (700 mm average)
of savanna-type grasslands, supporting ir5igated estates and ranches; and
(iv) the Lubombo plateau region (1,300 km ) in the extreme East, with higher
altitudes, higher rainfall and fertile soils.
2.05      Swaziland's governmental and political structure is based on an
unusual dichotomy which arises from (but also partly explains) the dualism
of the economy. A modern Government (with a Cabinet of Ministers at the
summit) governs jointly with a traditional Government (with the Swazi
National Council (SNC) the principal institution); traditional Government
is quite separate and enjoys substantial power, particularly on all matters
affecting Swazi Nation land, where chiefs maintain customary law and hold
power over land allocation. The King, who has reigned for over 50 years,
is de facto executive head of both Governments; on matters affecting Swazi
Nation Land, the King must give his approval for all programs and actions.
Given the often unwritten basis for traditional institutions, and the divi-
sion of authority between the traditional and modern Governments, decision-
making affecting Swazi Nation Land can be slow and frustrating. This could
apply to the proposed Project, since both modern and traditional Government
institutions would be involved in Project implementation. However, both have
in the past supported rural development programs similar to that now proposed,
and have explicitly approved the current Project proposal.
2.06      The distinction between land held under customary tenure (Swazi
Nation land) and under modern, European-style land law (freehold title land)
is important for the Project, which would affect only Swazi Nation land areas;
implementation must conform to traditional authority and practices which gov-
ern these areas (Annex 3). The distinction results from the pre-Independence
era, when much land was granted by Swazi rulers to expatriates, ultimately
as freehold title with full rights to use and dispose of land; as much as
40% of Swaziland's land is still owned and managed by expatriates. The re-
maining land is designated Swazi Nation land (about 984,000 hectares, or 57%
of Swaziland). The King holds it in trust for the Nation, and governs it
through local chiefs. Land tenure patterns, social structure, and local
government remain very largely and quite deliberately traditional, with
the King, SNC, and local chiefs vigilant to ensure that all development
activities are undertaken through appropriate channels, and do not run
counter to traditional authority or values.
B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 1)
2.07      Swaziland has a diverse agricultural sector, differentiated by
geographic region (para 2.04) and by the dichotomy between modern and
traditional farming. About 65% of the total land area of 1.7 million ha



-4-
is presently used for grazing and ab--:: 10% is presently under cultivation
(including fallow), while a further 10% is considered suitable for intensive
cultivation.  Irrigated agriculture :s important, given the number of peren-
nial rivers flowing through Swaziland, and an estimated 25,000 ha are now
under irrigation, mostly concentrated in the Lowveld. Most irrigation is
in large estates but there is also a potential for small irrigation schemes
(under 50 ha) throughout the country. Forests (mostly man-made) cover about
6% of Swaziland's land area, and support a thriving forest products industry.
Swaziland is an exporter of commercial crops (sugar, cotton, forest products,
livestock), but must import to feed the population. In 1974, agricultural
products (raw and manufactured) constituted over 80% of total exports, which
were valued at E120 million (US$138 million). Agricultural commodities,
notably maize, comprised about 8% of the value of total imports in 1974.
Commercial Farming
2.08      About 600 estates and farms hpld under freehold title produce most
of Swaziland's export crops; freehold title holdings average about 940-ha
each, of which an average of 70 ha is under crops; the remainder is graz-
ing land, forest, mining concessions, and waste land. There are some very
large company owned estates; other farms belong to expatriates, many absen-
tees, and to a growing number of Swazi citizens. Production techniques on
most estates and farms are modern and intensive, including use of full in-
puts and mechanization. Sugar is the principal crop, and accounted for almost
42% of total merchandise exports in 1974. Other important commercial crops
are cotton, citrus, and pineapples, while forest products are increasing in
significance. Some freehold title farms also produce livestock. The modern
agriculture sector has grown at a rate of about 10% a year for the past
decade.
Swazi Nation Land Farming
2.09      An estimated 39,000 families farm holdings averaging less than 3
ha. on Swazi Nation Land. Production is primarily for subsistence and less
than 10% of total production is offered for sale on the commercial market.
Maize, the staple food of Swaziland, is the principal crop, occupying about
80% of total crop area. Other important crops are groundnuts, sorghum,
beans, sweet potatoes, and pumpkin. In recent years, Swazi Nation land
farmers have rapidly increased production of cash crops, notably cottor.,
tobacco, and vegetables, but this represents still a very small portion
of Swazi Nation land production, which has increased at only 3% a year over
the past decade, barely keeping pace with the growth of population. Farming
techniques are almost exclusively traditional, by hand, or using oxen. Inter-
planting as a hedge against crop failure is common, and farmers generally
grow a range of crops in addition to maize. Women are the principal farmers
by tradition, with men predominantly concerned with livestock. An estimated
27,000 families own cattle. Cultivable land is allocated to families by
chiefs, and they enjoy some degree of security of tenure, including the right
to pass land on to their children. However, land may not be sold, and the
chief can always reallocate land, although this seldom occurs in practice.
Fragmentation of farming plots is common and is becoming a serious problem in
some areas with increasing pressure of new families seeking arable land.



-5-
Livestock
2.10      Livestock provides an importait source of revenue for Swaziland,
through meat and cattle exports valued at E4.7 million (US$5.4 million)
irn 1974. Totel cattle numbers were estimated at 620,000 in 1975; of these,
about 520,000 were owned by about 27,000 Swazi farmers, and grazed on Swazi
Nation land pastures (which are communally owned and managed). The remaining
100,000, generally exotic or upgraded animals, are run on freehold title
ranches, usually in the Lowveld. Cattle play a vital role in Swazi society;
cattle ownership by tradition confers prestige, cattle are a measure of
wealth and serve a banking function for subsistence farmers, and cattle sales
are a principal source of cash income for Swazi Nation Land farmers. Work
oxen commonly till fields in Swaziland, and are used for transport; cattle
provide meat and milk for the family. Goats also are an important source of
food and cash, and an estimated 250,000 goats are owned by 13,000 families.
Cattle husbandry techniques remain traditional; herding is minimal, animals
are kraaled at night and cows are milked daily, and production coeffi-
cients are low. The local Nguni breed are well adapted to local conditions,
but productivity can be very substantially increased by upgrading with exotic
breeds. Total marketed offtake is less than 10%. Ranching on freehold title
land has demonstrated the potential for profitable livestock production when
more modern techniques are employed.
2.11      Overstocking is a critical problem on Swazi Nation land.  Excel-
lent veterinary services (including universal and compulsory dipping at
over 600 dip tanks) have sharply reduced mortality, without corresponding
increases in productivity or pasture carrying capacity; the national herd
grew from 431,345 in 1955 to 510,085 in 1965, to 620,000 in 1975, an average
rate of increase of close to 2%. In many parts of Swaziland, pastures have
degenerated, soil erosion on grazing areas is plainly visible, and animals
are suffering increasingly from malnutrition. Destocking is an urgent
priority for rural development both to avert further deterioration of pas-
tures, and as a prerequisite for introducing improved husbandry techniques,
including herd management, upgrading of the indigenous Nguni breed, and
pasture improvement. The Ministry of Agriculture operates fattening and
breeding ranches, designed largely to encourage farmers to remove cattle from
communal pastures. To date, results of efforts to destock have not been
encouraging, but under a broad national livestock program, the Government has
committed substantial resources to finding solutions to the problem.
C. Crop and Livestock Marketing and Processing (Annex 4)
2.12      A very small portion of crops grown on Swazi Nation Land are pro-
duced for cash. Maize, the principal crop, is the staple food; between 75%
and 90% of production is consumed on the farm and only surpluses are offered
for sale. The same applies for other subsistence crops (beans, groundnuts,
etc.). An increasing number of farmers are, however, growing crops to obtain
cash: about 5% of Swazi Nation land holdings produce principally for sale,
and 25% sell at least some of their produce. Cotton, tobacco, vegetables and
rice are the principal commercial crops. In the past, marketing has been



- 6 -
dominated by processing companies, most South now seeking to improve market-
ing facilities for Swazi farmers through use of the cooperative movement
(para 2.25), and USAID is assisting in this effort.
2.13      Commercial Crops:  Swazi farmers sell cotton to one ginnery in
Swaziland and three in the Republic of South Africa; these in turn sell lint
to South African spinners. Prices are established in relation to those in
South Africa. Tobacco is marketed through a Tobacco Cooperative dominated by
larger farmers, which sells directly to manufacturers in South Africa;
virtually all tobacco produced by Swazi farmers is low grade pipe or chewing
tobacco. Rice is sold in South Africa, either polished or unpolished.
Vegetables are marketed through less organized channels, principally within
Swaziland.
2.14      Maize and Subsistence Crops:  The small proportion of total maize
and other subsistence crop production marketed through commercial channels
(10-25% according to success of the harvest) is sold either to local inter-
mediaries or hammer mills (80%) or to the Swazi Milling Company (20%); SMC,
by agreement with the Government, has exclusive rights to import maize to
Swaziland and to operate a commercial milling facility, and must purchase all
maize offered by Swazi farmers at Government-fixed floor prices. In 1974,
SMC imported about 20,000 tons of maize from South Africa and purchased about
2,000 tons from Swazi producers; over the past seven years, the imports have
averaged between 5% and 25% of total Swaziland consumption requirements. The
Swaziland Government gives high priority to attaining self-sufficiency in
maize, and is actively promoting efforts to assist Swazi farmers in increas-
ing maize production.
2.15      Livestock:  About 50,000 to 60,000 cattle are marketed annually
by Swaziland producers. Virtually all Swazi Nation land cattle are sold to
local butchers or private, itinerant dealers, principally when farmers need
cash; offtake is low, with many unproductive animals remaining on communal
pastures. A central objective of Government livestock policies is to encour-
age farmers to sell more and younger animals. Swazi farmers often receive
lower than average market prices because of distance from markets and inter-
vention of intermediaries. Very small numbers of goats, sheep, and poultry
are marketed through commercial channels. About 12% of cattle marketed are
exported live. Remaining cattle are slaughtered by local butchers (60-70%)
and by the Swazi Meat Corporation, which runs a modern export abattoir
(capacity 35,000 head a year).
D. Rural Development Programs (Annex 2)
2.16      The proposed Project would form part of the Government's overall
rural development program and would thus be closely related to several
other development projects, most financed by other donor or lending agencies.
The most significant of these are the ODM-financed Rural Development Program
(para 1.02), UNDP agriculture projects, USAID loans for equipment, small
farmer credit, and cooperative marketing, livestock development schemes, a
proposed CIDA dairy development project, and technical assistance and
training financed from several sources. Most projects are at too early a



stage to assess quantitative results, but it is nevertheless apparent that
a broad-based approach to rural development activities is underway, and
that the Government has mobilized considerable external resources, technical
and financial, to assist in this effort. The most significant challenge for
the Government in coming years is to elaborate an effective overall strategy
for all rural development efforts including a more explicit definition
of problems and objectives, and to develop more effective means of coordina-
tion amorg the multitude of on-going and proposed rural development schemes.
E. Government Services and Training
Institutions Responsible for Rural Development (Annex 5)
2.17      The institutional framework for rural development is particularly
complex in Swaziland. Because of the juxtaposition of traditional and modern
authority, a dual decision-making process is involved at both the planning
and execution stage. Since the full range of services and programs aimed
at assisting the rural population is involved, rural development holds the
highest priority for the Swazi government. Decisions on rural develop-
ment matters are often made at a high level, and are frequently raised at the
Cabinet and by the Swazi National Council (SNC); some can be resolved only
by the King. Many Government agencies have responsibilities affecting rural
development, and coordination among their activities is as a significant
problem. Principal responsibility for initiation, implementation and coor-
dination of rural development programs resides for all these reasons with the
Cabinet and the SNC (para 2.05).
2.18      Central Rural Development Board (CRDB):  The CRDB, established
in 1954, oversees all activities on Swazi Nation land, on behalf of the
SNC; it reports directly to the King, and includes important traditional
leaders and chiefs. The CRDB must approve all projects and plans for rural
development schemes; it normally acts on proposals at a conceptual level and
when detailed land-use plans are prepared. An important part of the approval
process is consultation with local chiefs and population involved. It also
exerts surveillance over implementation to ensure that agreed plans are
followed. The CRDB appoints Rural Development Officers (seven at present)
to assist in preparing, presenting, and carrying out development schemes;
they often act as facilitators, working actively to enforce CRDB decisions
on development schemes, and have been effective in advancing rural develop-
ment programs in the past.
2.19      Ministry of Agriculture:  (Chart 1)  The Ministry has two major
departments, Agriculture (principally for crops) and Veterinary Services.
In addition, a Land Planning Section, responsible for preparation of land-
use plans, an Economics Section, responsible for project preparation,
evaluation, and budgeting for investments, and an Administration and Finance
Section report directly to the Permanent Secretary. The Agricultural Depart-
ment has the following sections: (i) agricultural extension and the crop
production unit; (ii) RDA section, responsible for all extension staff in



- 8 -
in RDA's and for coordination of pr --'ams affecting them; (iii) land develop-
ment, responsible for soil conservation ,.orks, feeder road construction, and
development of small dams and irriga_lion schemes; (iv) fisheries; (v) forests;
and (vi) home economics.  The Veter`nary Department has a large, well-staffed,
and well-organized veterinary services division, responsible exclusively for
animal health and abattoir inspection, and a small, recently established
animal production division, which oversees livestock extension work and
activities of breeding and fattening ranches. Agricultural extension staff
are organized by district (four in Swaziland), except in RDA's; these staff
report directly to the RDA unit through RDA "project managers". The crop
extension staff is limited, with about 100 field officers now working
with an estimated 40,000 farm families (1:400); the target ratio has not
been clearly established, but will probably be about 1:200 farm families.
Many staff have insufficient training, and there are not enough qualified
staff to provide adequate supervision at intermediate levels.  Work of crop
specialists has suffered from recent UNDP financial cutbacks, (an FAO/UNDP
project supports the unit); better coordination with general extension would
strengthen the service. Veterinary services are staffed with sufficient
numbers of well-trained staff (about 180 at middle and lower levels), and
function well; livestock extension is at an embryonic stage, with four field
workers. The Ministry plans to merge crop and livestock extension services
as part of a general reorganization recently approved (chart 2).
2.20      Other Institutions:  The Ministry of Local Administration, through
District Commissioners, assists in coordination and implementation of rural
development schemes; local chiefs, the principal agents of local administra-
tion, also have substantial responsibilities at both the planning and imple-
mentation stage. Credit institutions and cooperatives (para 2.25) are play-
ing an increasingly active role through schemes to promote small farmer
credit, supply of agricultural inputs, and marketing of produce.
Manpower and Training (Annex 6)
2.21      Swaziland has severe shortages of agricultural manpower at senior,
intermediate, and field staff levels. Many senior ministry posts are filled
by expatriates; vacant posts and insufficient staff at intermediate levels
curtail the effectiveness of extension supervision, while lack of field
extension workers is perhaps the most fundamental obstacle to improving
services. The problems are exacerbated by competition for qualified staff
from private enterprise and quasi-government institutions, including the
Swaziland Development and Savings Bank (SDSB). Agricultural training at
senior levels is offered by the University of Botswana and Swaziland (UBS);
a substantial number of Swazis are pursuing undergraduate and graduate
training in agriculture at UBS or overseas. Diploma-level training is also
offered by UBS, in a three-year course enrolling forty students a year (in-
cluding Botswana students). There is at present no formal training for
certificate level extension staff. Other small training units train vet-
erinary assistants, domestic science demonstrators, and SDSB staff; a coop-
erative training center for Cooperative Department and primary cooperatives
staff is now being built. Three farmer training centers offer short course
for farmers in special fields, but centers have not been fully utilized and
their effectiveness is being questioned by Government officials.



-9-
Research
2.22      Research on crops and livestock production is carried out by an
Agricultural Research Division at UBS, which maintains a research station,
field stations, and research plots, by the Animal Production Section, which
has concentrated on beef production and pasture development, and by private
industry. Most agricultural research is of relatively recent standing, and
is principally oriented to resolve problems arising from Swaziland condi-
tions; however, Swaziland benefits from much research undertaken in South
Africa. Research has not been directed specifically to small farmer prob-
lems in the past, and at present links with extension are indirect, largely
because they are responsible to different ministries. Work has focused on
trials of new crops and cultural methods, and on specific crop problems.
The quality of research has been good, and clear recommendations for farmers
are published on a regular basis. There is some possibility that agricul-
tural research may become the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture
in future, which should aid in strengthening ties with extension.
F. Agricultural Credit and Cooperatives (Annex 7)
2.23      Institutional agricultural credit is well developed in Swaziland,
but it is geared primarily towards the commercial sector. Credit is avail-
able to farmers from four principal sources: (i) the Swaziland Development
and Savings Bank (SDSB); (ii) cooperatives, including both primary societies
and the Central Cooperative Union (CCU); (iii) processing companies; and
(iv) commercial banks. Virtually no commercial bank credit is available to
Swazi Nation Land farmers; credit to them from SDSB and the cooperatives is
still very small in amount, but is increasing in importance; credit from
processing companies is also growing in significance. Availability of
unorganized credit to small farmers is almost nil.   A rough estimate of
small farmers credit usage is about E700,000 (US$805,000) a year. Lack
of availability of agricultural credit, principally because of institutional
blockages, appears to be a significant obstacle to increased uptake of
inputs on Swazi Nation Land.
2.24      SDSB is the principal institution concerned with agricultural
credit. Established in 1965, it is an experienced and well-managed insti-
tution, with a well trained staff. Based in the capital, it has five branch
offices. At present, less than 5% of SDSB's portfolio represents loans to
farmers on Swazi Nation land; however, it is well placed to assist in
promoting development of small farmer credit in future, and has received a
long-term loan of US$750,000 from USAID for this purpose. The principal
drawbacks to SDSB small-scale credit operations are the high cost of making
such loans, cumbersome procedures, and security requirements. SDSB's
authorized capital is E5,000,000 (US$5.8 million), partly subscribed by the
UK and USAID. As of MIarch 31, 1975, outstanding loans stood at E8.8 million
(US$10.1 million). About 37% of total loans were for agriculture, 30% for
the business sector, 23% for housing and 10% for other purposes. Of total
agricultural loans, (E3 million, US$3.4 million), 68% were long or medium
term loans to the commercial sector (large farms), 20% were mechanization
loans (mostly for tractors), 6% were advances paid to farmers against



- 10-
cattle consigned to fattening ranches, and 6% were seasonal loans of less
than E500 (US$575); of this, a small part of tractor loans, most of the
cattle advances, and virtually all seasonal loans under E500 were to Swazi
Nation land farmers. In 1975-76, SDSB made about 1,500 seasonal loans of
less than E500; average size of loan was E125. Interest on small seasonal
loans (below E500) is 6%; on all other agricultural loans it is 10.5%. Data
on loan repayments are poor, but SDSB management estimates that over 34% of
total loans and 24% of total amounts disbursed to Swazi Nation Land farmers
are delinquent. SDSB has recently employed bill collectors to assist in loan
recovery; preliminary results are encouraging. SDSB loan procedures are
cumbersome, and all loans must be secured by about 150% of loan amount;
cattle are accepted as security but Swazi Nation land farmers without cattle
cannot obtain credit from SDSB. Approval of applications by extension staff
and a local advisory committee including government officials is required
for all loans; paperwork is substantial. SDSB is seeking to streamline
loan procedures through establishment of a stand-by line of credit scheme,
simplification of procedural requirements, and increased use of indirect
loans through cooperatives (para. 2.25). SDSB management hopes thus to
reduce the now very high cost of small farmer credit and to increase credit
usage.
2.25      The Swazi Government is promoting the cooperative movement as
part of its rural development program. Organization of primary cooperatives
is being encouraged, and the Government is assisting in organization and
development of the Central Cooperative Union (CCU).  The objective is to
utilize CCU and primary societies to organize supply and sales of agricul-
tural inputs, to assist in marketing produce, and to increase availability
of credit to farmers. CCU has received financial and staff support from
the Government, and should shortly formalize agreement on UK technical
assistance and an E500,000 working capital loan. USAID recently approved a
project to provide assistance to cooperatives in the field of marketing. An
ILO/SIDA project comprises technical assistance and development of facilities
for cooperative training and development. As a result, CCU has expanded
its activities rapidly over the past two years, and now supplies about one
third of inputs on Swazi Nation Land; most activities have been and will
continue to be concentrated in RDA's. To date, however, CCU's role in
providing credit to farmers is very restricted; primary societies provide
seasonal loans to members and have borrowed from SDSB, but amounts involved
are very small. Proposals are now being considered whereby CCU would borrow
funds from SDSB and onlend to member primary societies, which in turn would
organize lending to member farmers (including recovery). Problems include
CCU's limited management capacity and experience and small membership of
cooperatives (4% of Swazi National land farmers). In the short term, close
cooperation between SDSB and CCU will be required. Cooperative development
is at an early stage, and still relies heavily on Government support and
technical assistance; CCU stands in considerable need of improvement in
management and controls. Nevertheless, use of cooperatives for rural de-
velopment activities offers many advantages, and the substantial financial
commitment of several donor agencies to cooperative development reflects
the importance accorded to it by these agencies and the Government.



- 11 -
2.26      Additional sources of credit to farmers are cotton ginneries
and the tobacco cooperative (para 2.13), which provide inputs on seasonal
credit, deducting cost plus about 12-14% per annum interest from sale price.
About one half of all Swazi farmers now buy inputs for cash.
G. Rural Social Services
2.27      The Ministry of Health provides rural health services.  Health care
in rural areas it is provided in 37 clinics now operating. Specialized
program staff (tuberculosis, eye care, etc.) visit clinics on a regular basis.
Principal disease problems are respiratory and gastro-intestinal diseases,
bilharzia, and malnutrition. Family planning advice and materials are pro-
vided through United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) supported
Mother and Child Care and Family planning services. Nutrition education is
part of the home economics program of the Ministry of Agriculture, and forms
part of a new UN-supported status of women program. Major constraints to
improving health care are lack of trained staff, need for new facilities, and
the high cost of recurrent expenditures involved. Enrollments in primary and
secondary schools are low in rural areas, and failure and drop-out rates are
high. Schools are not now oriented to providing education for rural youth,
but curriculum development studies are now underway, aimed at making education
more relevant for rural youth. Rural Education Centers are being established
under an IDA-financed project to provide both adult education and specialized
training. Other rural social services are limited. Clean domestic water
supplies are rare, but are being installed in RDA's; they are clearly popular
and beneficial. Community development funds administered by district commis-
sioners assist local chiefs and communities in locally initiated projects such
as spring protection, bridges, and school construction.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would form part of the Swaziland Government's contin-
uing program of rural development. It would, over five years, strengthen
agricultural services and provide rural infrastructure in ten rural devel-
opment areas (RDA's) (para 1.01), and would strengthen central management
for rural development programs. The Project would specifically include:
(a)  Strengthening and development of extension
services and infrastructure for crops and
livestock in 10 RDA's;
(b)  Livestock development in 2 of these RDA's through
provision of infrastructure for more sophisticated
cattle herd management, notably fencing, stock water-
ing dams, additional dip tanks, and cattle trucks for
marketing;



- 12 -
(c) Land development works, in 2 of the RDA's, including
consolidation of land holdings, delineation of arable
and grazing areas and related resettlement, and soil
conservation works;
(d) Provision of incremental agricultural inputs, including
fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides, in 10 RDA's;
(e) Strengthening of credit services for small farmers in
10 RDA's;
(f) Development of access and feeder roads in 10 RDA's;
(g) social infrastructure development, including domestic
water supplies and health centers in 2 RDA's;
(h) Central management services, including technical
assistance and operating costs for Project management;
(i) Studies, including a cattle marketing study, future
project preparation, training for extension staff and
farmers, and monitoring and evaluation of Project progress.
3.02      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility for
Project implementation and for ensuring effective coordination with other min-
istries and agencies concerned, notably the Swaziland Development and Savings
Bank (SDSB), the Central Cooperative Union (CCU), the Central Rural Develop-
ment Board (CRDB) and the Ministries of Health and Finance. Most services of
the Ministry of Agriculture would be directly involved in Project implementa-
tion, and their activities would be coordinated by an RDA management unit. An
interministerial committee would be established to oversee coordination, in-
cluding representatives of all ministries and agencies concerned.
3.03      The proposed Project would follow directly from an ODM-financed
Rural Development Area Program, initiated in 1970. In most aspects of
basic project design and objectives, the Project would continue and ex-
pand upon the previous program. Further, ODM has agreed to continue and
expand its own Rural Development Program, and the two projects would be
implemented in parallel, with joint management within the Ministry of
Agriculture.
B. The Project Area (Annex 8)
3.04      Ten rural development areas (RDA's) have been defined and desig-
nated for development under the proposed Project. They are located in all
four principal geographic regions of Swaziland, and together cover about
35% of total Swazi Nation Land areas, and 20% of the total area of Swaziland.
About 25% of Swaziland's population live in Project RDA's. The RDA's cover
about 44% of land farmed or grazed by Swazi farmers. The characteristics
of the areas may be summarized as follows:



- 13 -
RDA               Area (ha)  Population         Region
(i)  Lubombo - Mpolonjeni          98,588      27,770    Lowveld and Lubombo
(ii)  Mahamba - Zombodze             19,810     16,108    Middleveld
(iii)  Bekinkosi - Mliba             27,232      14,154    Middleveld
(iv)  Mahanga - Hluti               32,453      17,779    Middleveld
(v)  Masala - Vikisijula           22,585       4,923    Lowveld
(vi)  Nkambeni - Madlangampisi      27,702       5,075    Lowveld
(vii)  Sandleni - Luqolweni          38,350      17,620    Middleveld
(viii)  Siphofaneni - Maphobeni        24,993      5,075    Lowveld
(ix)  Siphocosini - Motshane        19,070       7,655    Highveld
(x)  Sithobela - Madubeni          38,167       7,908    Lowveld
348,950    124,067
Annex 8 provides a description of each area, including location, topography,
climate, soils, and agricultural and livestock position before development.
Location of all RDA's are shown on the map. Considerable basic information
has been assembled for each RDA, which should provide a good basis for land
use planning to be undertaken under the Project. Two RDA's (i and ii above)
have been designated for intensive development; in other RDA's Project de-
velopments would be limited to development of infrastructure and extension
services and land use planning.
3.05      RDA's are areas of Swazi Nation land designated for concentrated
development efforts; definition of RDA's is the responsibility of the Min-
istry of Agriculture, which has selected areas with concentrations of popu-
lation, development potential, and relative geographic homogeneity. RDA
boundaries do not follow administrative, political or geographic boundaries;
they are administrative units specifically designed as a vehicle for develop-
ment efforts rather than as long term jurisdictions. Development programs are
now underway (since 1970) in four other RDA's, under the ODM-financed Rural
Development Program (para. 3.03), and four extensions of these RDA's have been
designated for future development under the ODM program. Total area of the
RDA's financed by ODM is about 139,000 hectares and population 72,000. Thus,
a total of 14 RDA's, covering 487,730 hectares, have been delineated; to-
gether, these areas cover about 60% of communally held Swazi Nation Land, 50%
of all Swazi Nation land, and 28% of all of Swaziland. The proposed Project
would include basic development costs in ten RDA's, while the ongoing ODM-
financed program would support development in the remaining four RDA's.
3.06      All Project RDA's are accessible by all-weather gravel roads;
one RDA is also served by the main tarmac road from Mbabane to the Transvaal
border, and the country's only railroad traverses four RDA's. Communications
between the RDA's and major cities and towns are good, maintained through
public bus services and telephone and telegraph connections. Elevation,
climate, soils and cropping patterns vary with respective locations in Low,
Middle, or Highveld. In general, water resources are adequate to provide
water at least for human and animal consumption, and for small irrigation
schemes in many areas. In all RDA's, maize is the major crop; cotton is
grown on up to 12% of Lowveld individual holdings. Groundnuts and beans are



- 14 -
next in importance. Livestock is important in all RDA's; about 8,800 stock
owners maintain an estimated 141,000 head of cattle and about 91,500 head of
goats and sheep. There is a serious overstocking problem in virtually all
areas.
3.07      All RDA's have primary and secondary schools.  Most primary schools
were established by missions, with or without Government support. School
capacities vary greatly, from 26 to over 500 pupils; facilities and staff
are inadequate in most areas, but requirements should be met through national
programs for school construction and teacher training. Health facilities are
provided through rural clinics (in general about two or more within or near
each RDA), run by Government or missions (usually with Government aid).
3.08      Agricultural extension services are currently inadequate in Project
RDA's. Only two RDA's have an Assistant Extension Officer, and only one RDA
has an Assistant Animal Health Inspector; four RDA's have Domestic Science
Demonstrators and seven of the ten RDA's have between one and three Field
Officers. None of the RDA's have Cooperative Department staff or secretary-
managers or livestock extension officers.
C. Detailed Features
(a) Extension Services and Infrastructure
3.09      Extension services for crops and livestock would be strengthened
in the 10 Project RDA's. The extension service would aim at increasing
production of food and cash crops, notably hybrid maize, cotton, vegetables
and fruits, and tobacco; most would be dryland farming, with the excep-
tion of minor irrigation schemes (dams) where appropriate. Livestock ex-
tension work would focus on promoting destocking by encouraging increased
cattle sales, and on introducing better herd management through rotational
grazing and pasture improvement. Further extension efforts would include
assistance to primary cooperatives, home economics and nutrition, and fish
pond and small stock development. Promotion of small scale dairy development
would also form part of the extension program. The principal investment
items would include: buildings for extension offices, housing for extension
staff, depots for inputs and marketing of produce, vehicles and equipment,
including tractors for Project developments and a farmer tractor hire pool,
incremental wages and salaries for extension staff, and other incremental
operating costs (Annex 11, Tables 1-7).
(b) Livestock Developments
3.10      Livestock developments under the Project would form part of a broad
national program for livestock development, supported by UNDP, ODM, and other
donors (para 2.16); the priority objectives are promotion of destocking of
Swazi Nation land pastures, principally through marketing efforts and devel-
opment of cattle fattening and breeding ranches, upgrading cattle through
a national breeding program, and raising herd productivity through improved
herd and pasture management. Under the Project, livestock developments



- 15 -
would include general extension work in all RDA's (para 3.09), in support
of national programs, and intensive livestock development in two RDA's
(Lubombo-Mpolonjeni and Mahamba-Zombodze); here, the objective would be
to introduce collective and improved management of all herds on suitable
communal pastures. Similar programs have met with some success in existing
RDA's, but the difficulty of changing traditional husbandry patterns is
recognized, and it is clear that the full support of the population will be
necessary to achieve success (Annex 1). Project developments would support
improved management practices through intensive extension work, fencing
(perimeter and paddocks), construction of new dip-tanks using improved
dipping materials, small dams for stock water, and pasture development,
through bush-clearing and establishment of improved pasture (generally as a
green belt between arable and grazing areas). Trucks would be provided to
transport cattle to fattening ranches or to market, in all ten RDA's, and
farmers would be encouraged through extension and other publicity to consign
cattle to fattening and breeding ranches. Improved bulls would be provided
in all RDA's from Government breeding stations to farmers who had agreed to
follow recommended management practices. The principal investment items
would be: trucks, civil works (dams, dip-tanks, bush-clearing, pasture
improvement), fencing, incremental livestock extension staff salaries, and
other incremental operating costs (Annex 11, Tables 8-10).
(c) Land Development and Conservation Works
3.11      Land development works would be based on land use plans (paras.
2.18 and 4.04), and would aim to avert soil erosion caused by improper land
use (cultivating steep slopes without protection), rationalize utilization of
scarce land resources through delineation of arable and grazing areas, con-
solidate fragmented land holdings, and resettle homesteads to appropriate
locations as required, and enhance land productivity through terracing,
irrigation development, and fish ponds. Terracing is principally designed
to control erosion, and involves construction, with earth-moving equipment,
of sloped contour bunds and artificial waterways (Annex 1). On more gentle
slopes, modified terraces or grass strips should provide adequate erosion
control. Existing equipment would be utilized, and should be supplemented
under a future USAID loan now under consideration. Land development works
would, at least in the initial years, be confined to the two intensive
RDA's, where the following works would be undertaken: (i) about 2,600 ha
fully terraced, (ii) about 5,000 ha terraced at a reduced level (about 60%
less intensive than full level terracing), and (iii) existing grass strips
removed and realigned as necessary to follow the slope contour. About 2,000
homesteads would be resettled and new homesites mechanically levelled, as
part of agreed plans for land consolidation and designation of arable and
grazing areas. Such resettlement and land redistribution has been successful
in existing RDA's, provided plans have the full support of the chiefs and
affected population. Dongas (gullies) would be reclaimed and the construction
of over 40 km of artificial waterways would control drainage. A limited num-
ber of fish ponds and small (10-50 ha) irrigation schemes would be developed
as conditions permit. The principal investment items would include expend-
itures for land development (equipment operating costs, maintenance, and
spares), materials, and incremental maintenance costs (Annex 11, Tables 11-13).



- 16 -
(d)  Agricultural Inputs
3.12      Incremental agricultural i.ftct would be supplied to farmers in
RDA's through CCU. The principal i..'uts provided would be fertilizer, pesti-
cides, planting materials, and suppiies for marketing and storage. Estimates
of requirements are based on past experience in RDA's and agricultural produc-
tion projections. Annex 11, Table 14 shows estimated Project requirements.
(e) Agricultural Credit Services
3.13      Availability of credit to Swazi farmers in RDA's would be increased
through measures to strengthen SDSB field operations in RDA's. SDSB staff
would be assigned to RDA's, and provided with an office cum house and a vehi-
cle. They would assist extension staff and cooperatives in arranging seasonal
credit for agricultural inputs and in recovering loans. Credit usage should
increase, which should aid SDSB and the cooperatives in designing better
credit services, reducing the cost of credit, and determining real costs of
providing credit, with a view to establishing clearer interest rate policies.
The principal investment items would be buildings, vehicles, materials, and
incremental operating costs (Annex 11, Tables 15-17).
(f) Road Development
3.14      About 900 kilometers of new access and feeder roads would be con-
structed within the ten RDA's; existing roads in Mahamba-Zombodze would
be improved and partly retraced to conform with resettlement plans. The
roads would lead from farms to extension centers and improve access to
adjacent regions and towns. They would be graded, but not graveled. About
300 culverts and a limited number of drifts and bridges would complement road
development works. The principal investment items would be materials, equip-
ment operating costs, and labor; labor costs represent approximately 50% of
total road development costs (Annex 11, Table 18).
(g) Social Infrastructure
3.15      Two rural clinics would be constructed and equipped in Lubombo-
Mpolonjeni, and an addition built to an existing rural clinic in Mahamba-
Zombodze. Health facility requirements in other RDA's have not yet been
assessed. Each clinic would be provided with an ambulance and basic medical
equipment. The principal investment items would be: construction costs,
vehicles and equipment, building maintenance, and vehicle and equipment
operating costs. A limited number of rural water supplies for human con-
sumption would be developed with the cooperation of the RDA staff and local
population. Most would be simple gravity systems conveying water to taps
near homesteads. Investments would include materials, development costs,
and maintenance (Annex 11, Tables 19-21).
(h) Project Management
3.16      The RDA management unit within the Ministry of Agriculture would
be expanded and strengthened to enable it to manage and coordinate develop-
ments in all 18 RDA's. Project investments would include technical assist-
ance, staff salaries, vehicles and equipment, and management operating costs
(Annex 11, Table 22).



- 17 -
(i) Technical Services
3.17      Technical services would include:
(a) Technical assistance for crops and livestock; 15 man-years
of technical assistance would be provided to assist the
Government in replacing key staff previously provided under
FAO/UNDP projects;
(b) Training for Project management staff and field extension
staff; a certificate-level training program would be intro-
duced in cooperation with UBS to train field officers, in-
service training would be organized, and pilot farmer
training would be undertaken;
(c) A livestock marketing study and future Project prepara-
tion; and
(d) Monitoring and evaluation of Project progress through teams
of survey workers backed up by qualified staff of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Central Statistical Office.
Further details on investments are given in Annex 11, Table 23.
D. Project Costs
3.18      Total Project costs are estimated at E14.9 million (US$17.1 mil-
lion), of which US$10.4 million or 61% would represent foreign expenditures.
Details are summarized in the following table:



- 18 -
% of
total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  cost
-------E '000--------  ------US$ '000-------
Project Component
Extension Services
and Infrastructure            1,726   1,533   3,259  1,984   1,762   3,746   32
Livestock Development             298      797   1,095    343       916   1,259   11
Land Development and
Soil Conservation                277     621      898    318       714   1,032    9
Agricultural Inputs                88      462     550    101       531      632    6
Agricultural
Credit Services                281      233      514    323       268     591    5
Access and Feeder
Roads                            525     890   1,415    603   1,023   1,626   14
Social Infrastructure             171      283     454    197       325      522    4
Central Management
Services                         184     525      709    211       603     815    7
Technical Services                514     682   1,196    591        784   1,375   12
Total                     4,063   6,027  10,090  4,672   6,931  11,604  100
Contingency Allowances:
Physical                       406      603   1,009    467        693   1,160
Price                        1,333   2,444   3,777  1,532   2,812   4,344
Total Contingencies       1,739   3,047   4,786  1,999   3,505   5,504
Total Project Costs            5,802   9,074  14,876  6,672  10,435  17,107
Project costs were estimated at prices as of February, 1977.  A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to all Project items to reflect general un-
certainty on cost and content of Project investments. Price contingencies
were applied on a cumulative basis at the rate of 11% for 1977, 10% for 1978,
9% for 1979, and 8% for 1980-82 (Annex 12, footnote to Table 1). Taxes and
import duties on Project goods are estimated at E1.5 (US$1.7 million); this
amount represents an estimate of Swaziland's share of revenue from the South
Africa Customs UniQn attributable to Project related imports (Annex 16). The
phasing of investments and details of Project costs are shown in Annex 12,
Table 1.
E. Financing
3.19      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:



- 19 -
E            US$          _
(million)     (million)
Government of Swaziland                     2.1            2.5         16
Farmers                                     0.3            0.3          2
African Development Bank                    4.7            5.4         35
(Nigerian Trust Fund)
European Development Fund                  2.5            2.9          19
ODM                                        0.3             0.3          2
IBRD                                       3.5            4.0          26
Total Costs (excluding taxes)              13.4           15.4        100
Taxes                                 1.5            1.7
Total Project Costs                  14.9           17.1
3.20      The proposed IBRD loan of US$4.0 million would be to the Government
of Swaziland; it would carry interest at 8.5% a year, and would be repayable
over 20 years including 4.5 years of grace. The loan would finance about 26%
of total net Project costs. The African Development Bank (Nigerian Trust
Fund) has agreed to provide a loan of US$5.4 million equivalent to finance
part of the Project; the loan would carry interest at 4%, repayable over 25
years, including five years grace, and would finance most Project buildings,
road development, livestock infrastructure (except fencing), irrigation dams
and fish pond developments, and operating costs for livestock developments and
agricultural credit services. The European Development Fund has agreed to
provide a grant equivalent to US$2.9 million to finance costs of extension
services (except buildings) in the eight less intensive RDA's, incremental
agricultural inputs for four years, Project training costs, and technical
assistance for the senior RDA's manager. ODM has agreed to provide technical
assistance for the Project valued at about US$300,000. Financing of Project
components would be on a parallel basis; the co-financing partners have agreed
that the Project will be implemented as a fully integrated operation, dis-
tinguishing among respective donor financed components only for purposes of
procurement and disbursement. The co-financing partners would cooperate
closely during Project implementation. Local sources in Swaziland would
finance 18% of net Project costs. Of this amount, the Government's contri-
bution would amount to about 16% of total Project costs (net of taxes);
farmers would contribute about 2% of Project costs, including financing of
seasonal inputs, contributions to livestock infrastructure, land development,
and buildings, as well as on-going maintenance costs. Financing details are
shown in Annex 12, Table 2. Signature of a loan agreement between the AfDB
and the Government of Swaziland and fulfillment of AfDB conditions of effec-
tiveness, and signature of the financing agreement between the EDF and the
Government and fulfillment of EDF conditions of effectiveness would be con-
ditions of effectiveness for the IBRD loan.
3.21      Funds for all Project investments financed by IBRD, except agri-
cultural credit services, and rural health, would be channelled by the Govern-
ment to the Ministry of Agriculture. Funds for rural health would be passed
on to the Ministry of Health. Funds for the agricultural credit services
component would be passed on to SDSB as a Government grant, since it would be



- 20 -
intended as a program to assist in developing effective credit institutions
and policies. Assurances as to financing arrangements were obtained during
negotiations. Retroactive financing up to US$100,000 would be provided from
November, 1976 for employment of Project staff and preliminary development
activities.
F. Procurement
3.22      For Project components financed by IBRD, contracts for the supply of
vehicles and equipment (US$1.4 million 1/) and fencing materials (US$0.4 mil-
lion), exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for goods and services
costing less than US$50,000 would be awarded following Government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory. The Central Transport Organization (CTO)
would be responsible for tendering and for maintenance of all Project vehicles.
Land development works (US$1.9 million) would be carried out by the Land Devel-
opment Section of the Ministry of Agriculture by force account. In view of
their small size, remoteness and dispersed location, all of these civil works
would not attract international bids; interest by qualified local contractors
would also be limited. Draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding
US$50,000 would be submitted to IBRD for approval before invitations to bid
were issued. Assurances as to the above procedures were obtained at negotia-
tions. Procurement for parts of the Project financed by AfDB and EDF would be
based on the standard procedures of these institutions.
G. Disbursement (Annex 15)
3.23      Funds from the Loan account would be disbursed over five years on
the following basis:
US$ million
(a) 70% of the total cost of equipment,
vehicles and materials (including fencing)                0.7
(b) 65% of total expenditures on land
development;                                              0.7
(c)  55% of staff salaries and other oper-
ating costs for extension services and the
RDA management unit;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of
the total cost of technical assistance,
studies, and monitoring and evaluation;                   0.7
1/   Estimates include contingency allowances.



- 21 -
(e) an unallocated amount representing a part
of price contingencies on the above cate-
gories and transferable to them as appro-
priate.                                                   0.7
Total IBRD Loan                                 4.0
Disbursements against (a), (b), and (d) would be fully documented; disburse-
ments against (c) would be made against certificates of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would be
retained by the Borrower and made available for inspection by IBRD during
the course of Project supervision missions. Any funds remaining in the Loan
account on completion of the Project would be used for Project-related activ-
ities, with IBRD approval.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.24      The Financial Controller, under the supervision of the Chief Proj-
ject Coordinator, would maintain separate records and accounts adequate to
monitor Project progress and to identify expenditures for respective Proj-
ect components. In addition, SDSB would maintain accounts for Project funds
channelled through it. SDSB accounts are audited by a private auditing firm
based in Swaziland; past accounts have been fully satisfactory. CCU accounts
are not satisfactory, but steps are being taken to improve accounting pro-
cedures and institute proper audit. Assurances were be obtained at negotia-
tions that: (i) separate accounts for the Project would be maintained by the
Ministry of Agriculture and SDSB, consistent with accepted accounting practice;
(ii) independent accountants, selected by the Government and acceptable to
IBRD, would audit Project accounts annually; and (iii) the Government would
make available the audited accounts and a report thereon to IBRD within six
months after the close of each fiscal year. The auditor for Government
accounts would probably be the Auditor General for Swaziland, since he is by
law responsible for auditing all Public Accounts (Annex 16); organization of
that office is satisfactory. Several good audit firms are based in or repre-
sented in Swaziland.
I. Environmental Impact
3.25      The Project would include several measures explicitly intended
to alleviate one of Swaziland's most significant environmental problems -
soil erosion. Land development works, notably terracing, grass strip
improvement, and gully rehabilitation, would protect soil from erosion.
Further, the livestock development components would form part of the
Government's overall efforts to improve traditional herd management; over-
stocking and indiscriminate grazing are now the most serious cause of soil
erosion. The Ministry of Agriculture would restrict development in and
actively protect valleys in the Lubombo Plateau where rare species of flora
and fauna are found. Project-supported health services also would have a
positive environmental impact.



- 22 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management and Coordination
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility
for management of most Project components and for coordination of overall
Project implementation. The Department of Agriculture within the Ministry
would carry out extension programs and land development activities in all
RDA's, would oversee staff of other ministries in these areas, and would be
responsible for ensuring that proper coordination took place on matters of
interministerial concern. For its implementation, the Project would rely
to a great extent on existing staff and institutions (including SDSB and
CCU), and the principal task of Project management would be to strengthen
and coordinate existing services and administrative units. The proposed
Project would be administered jointly with the ODM-financed Rural Develop-
ment Areas Program (para 3.03), and most arrangements discussed below would
apply equally to both projects.
4.02      The Director of the Agriculture Department would oversee manage-
ment of Project developments, through an RDA Management Unit responsible
directly to him (Chart 2). This unit would include a Chief Project Coordi-
nator, Deputy Project Coordinator, Financial Controller, Senior RDA's Manager,
and appropriate supporting staff. Annex 13, appendix 1 shows terms of re-
ference for these posts. Appointment of staff to these four positions would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The RDA Management Unit would have a
dual role: it would plan and implement directly, through ministry divisions,
several Project components, notably agricultural extension,land development
and RDA livestock developments; further, the Unit would mobilize and coor-
dinate activities of other administrative units responsible for developments
in RDA's, both within the Ministry of Agriculture and in other ministries,
notably land use planning, supply of inputs and marketing, credit services,
and social infrastructure. The Unit would be supervise directly all Agricul-
ture Department staff working in RDA's, the Senior Agricultural Officer would
supervise staff working in all other areas. A "Project Manager" would be
posted in each intensive development RDA. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that IBRD would approve the role and responsibilities of the
RDA Management Unit.
4.03      An interministerial committee would be established to assist
in Project coordination. It would include senior representatives of the
following Ministries and agencies: Ministry of Agriculture (the Permanent
Secretary-Chairman and Chief Project Coordinator-Secretary), Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives, Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Education, Ministry of Works, Power and Communications, SDSB, CCU and
CRDB. The Committee would meet at least twice a year to act on all out-
standing Project issues, notably those involving policy matters or requiring
inter-ministerial decision, and to assess Project progress. Three existing
committees would also assist in Project coordination: the Rural Development
Committee of the Cabinet, on major issues requiring high level coordination,
the marketing and inputs committee which plans input purchases and marketing
activities, and the Projects Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture, which
coordinates programs within the Ministry and acts on all decisions involving
deployment of funds (Annex 5).



- 23 -
4.04      The Central Rural Development Board (CRDB) (para. 2.18) would be
directly involved in Project implementation at two stages:  approval of land
use plans, and overseeing implementation of those plans in all RDA's. The
CRDB's responsibility is principally to ensure that development programs are
consistent with Swazi tradition and reflect the wishes of the population.
CRDB action on all land use plans is thus vital to Project success, both to
ensure that Swazi Nation institutions, which have primary responsibility for
matters affecting Swazi Nation Land, support all Project developments, and
because the CRDB represents the population affected by the Project. Rural
Development Officers, who represent the CRDB, would assist in preparing plans,
securing their approval, and in overseeing and enforcing their implementation.
Management of Project Components
4.05      Land Use Planning:  The first stage of development in all RDA's
would be preparation of land use plans, broken down by individual chiefdoms.
The Land Planning Section of the Ministry of Agriculture would prepare plans
(as it has done in the past for all RDA's), beginning with surveys of the
area, followed by consultation with Rural Development Officers, Chiefs,
and the local population. The plans specify delineation of arable and grazing
areas, location of homesites, and of other buildings and centers. Poten-
tial for small-scale irrigation schemes is explored. The plan is then sub-
mitted to the CRDB, which again consults with chiefs concerned to ascertain
their views. The CRDB then approves the plan, often with modifications,
and it becomes binding; chiefs are required to indicate their approval and
agreement to implement the plan through a signed document. Only then can the
plan be implemented. Land use plans would be prepared initially for the two
intensive RDA's, then for the other Project RDA's. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that land use plans would be prepared, and appropriate appro-
vals secured.
4.06      Extension.  The RDA Management Unit would develop effective field
extension services in each RDA, building on existing services, but expanding
and diversifying them to permit more frequent and focussed contact with
farmers. In the two intensive RDA's (para. 3.04), a Project manager would
directly oversee all extension staff; in other RDA's, an assistant extension
officer would have responsibility for extension work. Agriculture and
livestock extension work would be handled by the same field officers, who
would be multipurpose agents; for livestock work, the Veterinary Services
Department would provide additional technical support. The target ratio of
extension workers to farmers is 1:200. Some specialized extension staff would
work on crops with special requirements. The extension staff would rely
on technical support from the Crop Production Unit; assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would ensure that the unit was adequately
staffed with qualified specialists in the fields of tobacco, cotton, grains
and legumes, and horticulture.
4.07      Livestock Development.  Project managers would direct livestock
extension in intensive RDA's. Developments would commence with delineation of
arable and grazing land (planning stage). Promotion of destocking would have
the highest priority, and would involve popularization of fattening and



- 24 -
breeding ranches, better organization of marketing, and provision of better
price information to farmers. Extension efforts would seek to convince local
population of adverse effects of overstocking on pasture quality and animal
condition. Extension staff would then plan and, in cooperation with the local
population, carry out the fencing program, initially perimeter fencing sep-
arating arable areas from pasture, then establishing paddocks within grazing
areas. Promotion of improved herd management and pasture improvement would
follow. Priority would be given to herd rotation and upgrading of the herd
through provision of improved bulls (Brahman and Simmentalher), as part of the
National Breeding Program. Farmers would be encouraged to focus on production
of beef on communal pastures, and to obtain milk for family consumption or for
sale from small dairy units within the arable areas. IBRD would expect to
review the overall livestock development program for Swaziland, given its
crucial importance for other aspects of rural development. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would consult with the Bank
at least once a year on its overall strategy for livestock development and on
progress made in implementing it. Further, assurances were obtained that
adequate staff would be available to provide technical support for the live-
stock program as it affects RDA's, and specifically that qualified specialists
would be available for beef production, range management, and livestock
extension.
4.08      Land Development and Road Improvement.  The Land Development Section
of the Ministry of Agriculture would carry out all land development activi-
ties in RDA's; development would be focused in intensive RDA's, with the
exception of road improvement, which would be carried out in all RDA's. The
Land Development Section would organize and mobilize units near each RDA where
development work was planned; actual works would be supervised by the unit
manager, in cooperation with the RDA Project Manager. All land development
works would be in accordance with approved land-use plans. USAID has provided
equipment and technical assistance to the Land Development Section in the
past, and is now considering an expanded program of assistance, which would
include considerable additional equipment and technical assistance. Land
Development works have in the past included terracing of virtually all arable
land in RDA's; in Project RDA's, terracing works would be limited to those
areas where slope justified terracing as a soil conservation technique.
Criteria for selection of areas for terracing are discussed in Annex 1,
Section F. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Gov-
ernment would consult with IBRD on the program of terracing in all Project
RDA's,indicating the rationale for terracing where it is recommended, prior
to undertaking such works. For all land development works, the full involve-
ment of the population would be essential, particularly when plans called for
land consolidation and resettlement of homestead. The RDA Management Unit
would work closely with the chiefs, CRDB and the population.
4.09      Agricultural Inputs.  CCU would be responsible for organizing
the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. Orders would be placed
following the decision of the Marketing and Inputs Committee, and would be
based principally on RDA staff projections of input requirements in RDA's.
CCU would order from suppliers and arrange for delivery of inputs supplies



- 25 -
to CCU-operated depots. CCU would sell inputs to farmers for cash, or on
seasonal credit provided either by SDSB or through primary cooperative socie-
ties (paras. 2.24 and 2.25).
4.10      Agricultural Credit Services.  SDSB would be responsible for imple-
mentation of the agricultural credit component, which would be intended to
supplement the on-going USAID supported farmer credit scheme. SDSB would
recruit and second credit advisers to RDA's, where they would work closely
with extension staff and with Cooperative Department personnel. Assurances
were obtained that: (i) the Government would consult with IBRD at least
once a year on credit policies for small farmers, and specifically on credit
programs involving RDA's and the cost of credit, and (ii) that SDSB would
report on small farmer lending and specifically on its cost and implications
for interest rates at least once a year, and discuss these reports with IBRD.
4.11      Social Infrastructure.  The Ministry of Health would be responsi-
ble for planning and supervising construction, expansion, equipping and
operation of clinics. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Government would provide adequate and qualified staff for all
clinics developed under the Project. RDA staff and PWD would develop
domestic water supplies. Simple gravity systems would be built in coopera-
tion with the benefitting population, who would have full responsibility for
maintenance of the systems. The water supply program would be integrated
with a national rural water supply plan now under preparation.
4.12      Technical Services.  The Ministry of Agriculture would have prin-
cipal responsibility for technical services, including recruitment and super-
vision of technical assistance personnel, preparation of terms of reference
for studies, direction of training activities, and monitoring and evaluation
of Project progress. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would: (i) employ qualified technical assistants for key Project
management posts (Chief Coordinator, Deputy, Senior RDA's manager, Financial
Controller) if Swazi staff are not available; (ii) obtain IBRD approval of the
terms of reference, experience and qualifications required for these posi-
tions; and (iii) consult with IBRD on appointments. IBRD would also approve
terms of reference for other technical assistance posts and be consulted on
proposed appointments. Assurances were obtained that the Government would
submit for prior IBRD approval terms of reference and proposals for studies,
and proposals for monitoring and evaluation would be approved by IBRD.
Monitoring of Project progress would be the responsibility of the Economics
Section of the Ministry of Agriculture, which would be supplemented by an
economist. Teams of enumerators would survey farmers in RDA's to determine
impact of extension and operating problems.
Annual Work Programs and Project Budget
4.13      The RDA Management Unit, in cooperation with the Economics Section
of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance, would prepare an
annual work program, as part of the Government's budget process. This program
should include IBRD, ODM, USAID and other directly related activities.



- 26 -
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would submit
to IBRD for its review and concurrence a draft program by August 31 of each
year. This would be discussed and agreed upon during Project supervision
missions. The program should include full cost information, distinguishing
various donor-financed activities; modifications to Project investment pro-
posals should be introduced where implementation experience so warrants.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.14      Expatriate technical assistants would be required to fill several
Project management positions throughout the period of Project implementation,
because of severe shortages of trained Swazi staff (para 2.21). Expatriate
staff could be recruited directly by the Government or obtained through bi-
lateral agencies. Swazi staff should be recruited to fill positions wherever
possible, and assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would discuss with IBRD on an annual basis its proposals for
training Swazi nationals to fill all positions. At a minimum, a qualified
Swazi agriculturalist should fill the post of deputy RDA coordinator, and
Swazis should be designated and trained to fill other established management
posts in future; no full-time counterparts would be assigned to expatriate
staff, as the Government prefers to post Swazis in established positions as
soon as formal training is completed. Swazis might fill one or more of the
RDA "project manager" posts, and should certainly hold those posts before
1980. Organization of a proposed new certificate level training program for
field extension staff would be essential for implementation of the proposed
Project, as there are now insufficient field officers to permit an expan-
sion of current extension programs. Development of the course would be a
condition of effectiveness.
Central Transport Organisation (Annex 5)
4.15      Central Transport Organisation is a centralized vehicle and equip-
ment pool serving all government agencies; it is responsible for vehicles
procurement, replacement and maintenance. CTO holds title to the vehicles
and equipment pool and charges a rental to the agencies which lease indivi-
dual items. CTO's good service performance would be of great importance
to ensure satisfactory Project implementation. CTO would maintain all vehi-
cles required for the Project and would earmark all vehicles purchased with
Project funds for Project purposes. In the event that CTO was unable to
provide adequate maintenance services to Project implementing agencies, the
Government would ensure that these agencies could service essential Project
vehicles through the private sector. Assurances were obtained that the
Government would consult with the Bank on vehicle and equipment renewal
policies and charges levied for use of Project vehicles.
Project Implementation Plan and Periodic Reporting (Annex 14)
4.16      Project implementation procedures were discussed during nego-
tiations, and a Project implementation plan was agreed upon. Assurances were
obtained that the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for submit-
ting quarterly reports on Project progress to IBRD, which would include
full financial information, discussion of principal achievements, and prog-
ress of Project monitoring and evaluation.



- 27 -
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOME, AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
Incremental Production
5.01      Incremental output in Project RDA's would be derived primarily from
increased production of a range of crops and increased productivity of cattle.
Increased crop production would result principally from raising yields on
existing farms through more intensive cultivation, improved farming methods,
and use of more and correct packages of inputs; increases in cultivated areas
would also augment production. Increasing emphasis would be placed on cash
crops (cotton, tobacco, rice, vegetables), but active extension of hybrid
maize should enable families to satisfy consumption requirements with less
land, thus freeing larger parts of holdings for cash crop production. Land
consolidation and terracing of arable areas should contribute to raising
yields by making farming more efficient. Incremental crop production has
been estimated as follows, based on projections of crop production in each
RDA (Annex 10):
Crop             Year 6                 Year 20
 -------(tons)------------
Maize             13,000                17,000
Beans                350                   700
Groundnuts           750                 1,300
Potatoes           2,000                 6,500
Cotton             1,200                 3,100
Tobacco              500                 1,000
Other                500                 1,000
It should be emphasized that these projections are tentative, given poor
data available, and represent an approximate order of magnitude of expected
output. Livestock development programs (in conjunction with overall national
schemes) should increase the productivity of traditional cattle herds in the
two intensive RDA's; productivity increases would result principally from
efforts to destock pastures, as this would reduce herd size, permitting
improved stock quality, but also from better herd management and pasture
development (rotational grazing, upgrading through use of improved bulls,
bush clearing, artificial pastures). Marketed offtake should increase, and
weight and grade should improve with better management. Incremental sales
of cattle are estimated at 3,000 head a year in year 6 and 5,000 head a year
by year 20 (Annex 10). Some additional milk production should result from
Project extension efforts.
Marketing
5.02      Virtually all incremental Project production would be marketed
through commercial channels, and Project investments should assist farmers
in selling crops and livestock by improving facilities, transport and price
information, in conjunction with a recently approved USAID Cooperative Mar-
keting Project. Small amounts of crop production (particularly beans and
groundnuts) and of cattle and milk would be consumed by farmers. Increased



- 28 -
maize production should enable Swaziland to reduce imports from South Africa,
although not entirely eliminating future import requirements. Maize and
other staple food crops would be marketed through local buyers or the
Swaziland Milling Corporation (para. 2.14). Cotton and tobacco would be
exported to South Africa through existing channels (para. 2.13), although
a new tobacco buying center and a new ginnery, with Swazi ownership, may
be established during the life of the Project. No difficulty should arise
in marketing output since quantities are small relative to South African
requirements. Cattle would be sold live to South Africa or slaughtered at
the Swaziland Meat Corporation for export (para 2.15). The UK has been the
traditional market for Swazi beef, and EEC import quotas and levies on imports
have posed problems for Swaziland; however, recently negotiated agreements
with the EEC have established quotas and rebates of import levies which are
satisfactory, at least in the short term (Annex 4). A marketing study should
further assist the Government in identifying new markets for beef.
5.03      Prices of all commodities produced except maize are not controlled
by the Swazi Government, and in the past market prices have been determined
by world market forces, which largely set South African prices for the com-
modities concerned.  Actual farm-gate prices should be somewhat increased,
notably for cattle, by marketing improvements under the Project. However,
prices received by Swazi producers do not differ substantially from market
prices (which are used in this report) because of Swaziland's small size and
the limited role of intermediaries. Maize prices are controlled by the
Government and include subsidies to producers and consumers; however, these
subsidies are lower than those applied in South Africa. The Meat Corporation
applies a floor price for cattle, but it is substantially lower than market
prices (Annex 4).
Producer and Government Benefits
5.04      Farm Income.  Farmers in Project RDA's should benefit from sub-
stantial increases in cash income. All aspects of the Rural Development
Program (extension, inputs, credit, marketing, roads) should assist farm-
ers in raising yields and diversifying to cash crops; the cash investment
required by farmers would be small in relation to expected return. Pro-
jections of increases in farm income are unreliable, given limited past
experience and poor base data. However, estimates of production costs and
yields (Annex 10) suggest that cash income could be at least doubled. Pre-
development farm income in the Highveld averages E100 (US$115) a year;
Middleveld farm income is estimated at about E245 (US$282), and Lowveld
income about E200 (US$130). It is expected that, by Project Year 6, farm-
ers in all RDA's would on average increase cash income from crops by 100-175%;
increases in income would be highest in the Highveld and Lowveld, and lowest
in the Middleveld. In intensive RDA's, the estimated increase in income from
cattle sales is estimated at about E60 (US$69), or an increase of about 80%
above pre-development levels. Estimates of gross margins at successive de-
velopment levels (Annex 10, Tables 1-8) suggest that increases in income
and in cost:benefit ratios would be adequate to ensure high levels of farmer
participation. The increase in production resulting from additional labor
inputs on several crops, notably tobacco, cotton, and vegetables, should be



- 29 -
relatively high. Increases in labor requirements are estimated at 65-80%
above pre-development levels. Swazi officials believe that labor should be
readily available, given population pressure and the present relatively low
labor input in cropping in most regions.
5.05      Impact on Government Budget.  The Project would entail, to a large
extent, expenditures which cannot be recovered directly from beneficiaries.
Further, it would involve development of services and installations which
would require on-going budgetary commitments by the Government; notably, de-
velopment of extension services would require long-term commitments of staff
and operating costs. Efforts would be made to maximize farmer participation
in development works, including fencing, pasture improvement, and water supply
installation, and to ensure that local communities assume most, if not
all, recurring maintenance costs. This would lessen the financial burden
on the Government, but should also ensure that local population was fully
involved in Project Implementation. Government support of initial invest-
ments and basic services would be appropriate, however, given the very low
level of development of Project RDA's and sharp disparities in income and
available services between population in these areas and elsewhere in Swazi-
land. Farmers would pay the full cost of agricultural inputs, and should
increasingly assume a greater share of the cost of credit (Annex 7). The
Government intends to elaborate more explicit policies towards the issue
of recovery of expenditures on rural development; in order to encourage a
continuing and constructive dialogue on the subject, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would consult with IBRD at least once
a year on cost recovery policies. The estimated recurring costs likely to
result from Project investments after Year 6 would be between US$700,000 -
US$750,000 (including physical contingencies); of this, perhaps 10% would be
maintenance costs borne by farmers. While these costs are high, the Govern-
ment's fiscal position should enable it to bear these additional expendi-
tures. Benefits to the Government would be limited to increased tax revenue
from local processing companies.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.01      The benefits of the Project would consist of:  (i) increased produc-
tion and marketing'of crops (valued at US$7.2 million at full development)'and
livestock (valued at US$0.9 million at full development); (ii) provision of
rural infrastructure and services (roads, water supply, health centers, nutri-
tion, information, and family planning); (iii) strengthening of overall capa-
city to manage rural development projects; and (iv) protection of arable and
grazing areas against soil erosion. Most of incremental Project production
would be exported, resulting in foreign exchange earnings, and import require-
ments for maize and other staple foods should be reduced.
6.02      The economic rate of return from the directly productive elements
of the Project is estimated at between 20 and 25% over 20 years (Annex 18).
All Project investment costs which relate directly to expected increases in



- 30 -
agricultural production were included in the analysis; further, estimates of
costs of other incremental development schemes which should directly affect
Project RDA's were included in the analysis. Costs of social infrastructure
and a share of central management costs and technical services attributable
to ODM-financed RDA's and future project preparation were excluded from the
analysis (estimated cost about US$1 million total). An estimate of the value
of incremental farm labor required for the Project was included in the analy-
sis. Unskilled labor employed for construction of Project civil works was
valued at the prevailing rate for agricultural labor, which was assumed to
reflect the economic cost of under-employed labor. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits were valued at prevailing exchange rates. Prices used in calcula-
tions are 1975-76 market prices for crops and cattle, which were assumed to be
equivalent to farmgate prices, increased by 15% to reflect expected price
increases to February 1977; expected shifts in world market prices of princi-
pal cash crops were taken into account. The rate of return analysis indicates
that the Project should yield significant benefits to the economy of Swazi-
land; it should be emphasized, however, that the analysis entails many uncer-
tainties, including poor initial data and lack of quantifiable field experi-
ence, the existence of a large number of other projects and programs affecting
Project RDA's, rendering attribution of benefits to any one scheme problema-
tic, and uncertainties involved in predicting a "with" and "without" Project
scenario. The rates of return were tested for sensitivity, which indicated
that they are most sensitive to delays in field level implementation and to
major shifts in relationships between production costs and prices.
Risk
6.03      The proposed Project does not entail substantial risks, in large
part because it is based on an on-going and relatively successful development
program. The degree of success of the Project will, however, depend on the
effectiveness of extension efforts and receptivity of farmers, and on the rate
at which physical developments can be implemented. This, in turn, will hinge
principally on the caliber of central management and of staff, and on support
for Project developments proferred by local chiefs and the CRDB. One risk is
that services and infrastructure will not be maintained following the invest-
ment period. Finally, the participation of several cofinancing partners
in the Project will complicate the task of Project management. The Project
includes measures to minimize these risks through provisions for central
management, training, technical assistance, and emphasis on cooperation with
traditional authorities. The management risks are offset to some degree by
Swaziland's previous experience with implementing rural development programs.
Further, annual discussion of work programs should permit adaptation of the
Project as experience warrants. Project success would be curtailed if on-
going and proposed programs financed by other donors ceased, but the Project
would not depend directly on their continuation. The Project offers good
prospects for improving services and raising incomes in the poorest areas of
Swaziland, and developments should be readily replicable in areas not covered
under current development schemes.



- 31 -
Employment and Income Distribution
6.04      An estimated 125,000 people would benefit from the Project, both
from increased cash income and subsistence production, and from improved
social services. Of these, about 44,000 would benefit from more concentrated
social services and extension in the two intensive RDA's. The population
affected would represent the lowest income group of Swaziland; current esti-
mated family cash incomes are exceedingly low (US$115-280) and they compare
with current GNP per family of at least US$3,000 (of which most represents
cash income); however, these figures and comparisons are not very meaningful
given the sharp duality of the economy and the dominant role played by large
expatriate firms and farmers.   Project investments in agriculture should
increase labor input in Project RDA's by the equivalent of 2,500 man-years a
year. Most civil works would be labor intensive and would employ an estimated
500 additional persons during much of the construction period.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
points:
(a) Financing arrangements for the Project (para 3.21);
(b) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para 3.22);
(c)  That:  (i) separate accounts for the Project would be maintained
by the Ministry of Agriculture and SDSB; (ii) independent
accountants, selected by the Government and acceptable to IBRD,
would audit Project accounts annually; and (iii) the Government
would submit audited accounts to IBRD within six months after the
close of each fiscal year (para 3.24);
(d) That the role and responsibilities of the RDA Management Unit
and of the Chief Coordinator would be approved by IBRD (para
4.03);
(e) That appropriate land-use plans would be prepared for all
Project RDA's and approved by appropriate Swazi authorities
(para 4.05);
(f) That the Government would ensure that the Crop Production
Unit was adequately staffed with qualified specialists in the
fields of tobacco, cotton, grains and legumes, and horticulture
(para 4.07) and that adequate staff were available to provide
technical support for the livestock program as it affects
RDA's, and specifically that qualified specialists would be
available for beef production, range management, and livestock
extension (para 4.07);



- 32 -
(g) That the Government would consult with IBRD at least once a
year on its overall strategy for livestock development and
progress made in implementing it (para 4.07);
(h) That the Government would consult with IBRD on the program of
terracing in all Project RDA's, indicating the rationale for
terracing where it is recommended, prior to undertaking such
works (para 4.08);
(i) That: (i) the Government would consult with IBRD at least
once a year on credit policies for small farmers, and
specifically on credit programs involving RDA's; and (ii)
that SDSB would report on small farmer lending and speci-
fically on its costs at least once a year, and discuss
these reports with IBRD (para 4.10);
(j) That the Government would provide adequate and qualified
staff for all clinics developed under the Project (para 4.11);
(k) That the Government would employ: (i) qualified technical
assistants for Project management posts (Project Coordinator,
Deputy Coordinator, Senior RDA Manager, and Financial Controller)
if Swazi staff are not available; (ii) obtain IBRD approval on the
terms of reference, experience and qualifications for incumbents of
these positions and other technical assistance posts; and (iii)
consult with IBRD on the appointment of staff to all these posts
(para 4.12);
(1) That the Government would submit for prior IBRD approval terms
of reference and proposals for studies and monitoring and evalua-
tion (para 4.12);
(m)  That the Government would submit to IBRD for its review an
annual work program and budget for Project developments and for
other parts of the Rural Development Program by August 31 of
each year (para 4.13);
(n)  That the Government would discuss with IBRD each year its
proposals for training Swazi nationals to fill Project
management positions (para 4.14);
(o) that the Government would would consult with IBRD at least
once a year on the level of charges for Project vehicles
and equipment, and on its vehicles and equipment renewals
policies (para 4.15);
(p) Reporting requirements for the Project (para 4.16);
(q) That the Government would consult with IBRD at least once a
year on policies for recovery from beneficiaries of operating
and maintenance costs for Project installations and broad policies
for maximizing finance participation by farmers in future rural
development programs(para 5.04).



- 33 -
7.02      Conditions of Loan effectiveness would be:
(a) signature of the AfDB loan agreement and fulfillment of
AfDB conditions of loan effectiveness (para 3.20);
(b) signature of the EDF financing agreement and fulfillment
of EDF conditions of effectiveness (para 3.20); and
(c) appointment of key Project staff (Project coordinator,
deputy, financial controller, and Senior RDA's Manager)
(para 4.02).
(d) Development of the certificate level training course (para 4.14).
7.03      The proposed Project would be suitable for an IBRD loan of US$4.0
million at 8.5% interest repayable over 20 years including 4.5 years grace.
January 13, 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Livestock - Sector Review
1.        A description of the Swaziland agricultural sector (including
livestock) is presented, as follows:
(a) General, including geographic regions, climate, soils.
(b) Crop Production.
(c) Livestock.
(d) Fisheries.
(e) Agricultural Research.
(f) Soil Conservation.
A. General
2.        Swaziland, one of the smallest 'ountries in Africa, measures
about 190 by 145 km, and covers 17,360 km . Population density is about 29
per sq km, but it is now projected that it will rise to over 60 per sq'km
within 25 years. Agriculture dominates the economy and society; it has fueled
Swaziland's recent economic growth, provided more than 60% of the value of
exports in 1975, and employs about 53% of the active population.l/ Swazi-
land's agriculture is surprisingly complex and diverse. The complexity arises
both from geography, since there are a wide range of ecological conditions,
and from the historical background which has resulted in a sharp dichotomy
between a modern, largely foreign-owned farming sector, and traditional,
subsistence agriculture.
Geographic Regions
3.        Four geographic regions are commonly distinguished, each extending
north-south (See map 2). They range from temperate highlands to low-lying
semi-tropical savannah, and are summarized in Table 1. Regional characteris-
tics can be briefly described as follows:
1/   Modern sector only



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(a) The Highveld 1/: is a mountainous area in western Swaziland,
forming the eastern edge of the South Africa Highveld. The
topography is sharply dissected with deep gorges; several
perennial rivers cross the area. Large parts of the highveld
are covered with pine and eucalyptus forests, most of which are
man-made. Much land is under natural pasture.
(b) The Middleveld: lies east of the Highveld. The topography is
rolling terrain, ranging from mountainous in the west to gently
undulating savanna in the east.
(c) The Lowveld: is generally flat savannah-like terrain. The
climate is semi-tropical, dry savanna with characteristic
vegetation.
(d) The Lubombo Plateau: in the extreme west of the country,
rises from the Lowveld in a sharp escarpment. Topography is
similar to the Middleveld. The terrain is rolling, hilly
country, sharply dissected by valleys and gorges.
Climate
4.        In general, Swaziland's climate may be described as subtropical
with summer rains; 75-83% of the precipitation occurs in the summer. Mean
rainfall varies from 508 mm at Big Bend (Lowveld) to 2286 mm in Nottingham
(Highveld). Rains are seriously deficient, even in the Highveld, during an
average of one year in ten. Climate histograms, including rainfall and
temperatures, are shown in Table 2; Table 3 shows recent monthly rainfall
figures for two locations. Swaziland has a good network of long-term weather
recording stations, some dating from the nineteenth century, so that rainfall
data is plentiful and relatively reliable.
Soils
5.        The distribution of major soil types is closely related to the
relief and geological units. In the Highveld, Upper Middleveld and Lubombo
ecological zones the main soil types are deep, acid and freely drained red and
yellow ferrisolic and ferralitic soils. Many soils are underlain by quartz
stonelines which can impede mechanical cultivation. Although their natural
fertility is low, (except in Lubombo), with adequate fertilizer and lime
applications these soils yield well. Drainage, infiltration rates and avail-
able moisture holding capacity is excellent for dryland or irrigated cropping.
Throughout the Lower Middleveld, soils are generally grey or red light textured
soils derived from granite or gneiss. The rooting depth is between 40 and 70
cms., although on the flatter slopes it increases to 100 cms. or more.
1/   Veld has several connotations in Southern Africa, but normally means
terrain or topography.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Shallowness and light texture restrict available moisture holding capacities
for rainfed cropping. Fertility is generally low and erodibility high. The
Western Lowveld is underlain by sandstones and shales which give rise to heavy
textured clay-pan soils, often covered with light textured material. Poor
sub-soil drainage and high exchangeable sodium restrict their use for irrigated
cropping, while low available moisture holding capacities in the light textured
topsoils tend to reduce rainfed crop yields. The Eastern Lowveld is underlain
by basalt which gives rise to an association of red, brown, and black clays.
Shallow variants (20 to 40 cms.) of these clays cover about 45% of the area.
The fertility of these soils is excellent although phosphorus is deficient.
Poor drainage is a problem with the black clays, and sodicity and salinity
occurs in some low lying soils. However, for rainfed cropping (of cotton)
these soils yield well, provided rainfall is sufficient. Annex 8 gives
further information on soils in Project RDA's and Appendix 1 summarizes the
principal soil classifications used in Swaziland.
Slopes
6.        Slopes vary considerably; they range from a median gradient of
3% in the Lowveld to 12% in the Middleveld, although there
are some lower continguous areas with less than 7% slopes along the Lowveld
margin. In the broken Highveld the slopes are from 18-50% or steeper.
Table 4 shows land potential according to slope.
Land Use
7.        Land use patterns and the organization of agricultural production
are sharply distinguished on freehold title land and on Swazi Nation land
(Annex 3). At present, about 43% of the total land area is held under freehold
title, while 57% is Swazi Nation Land. Table 5 gives a summary breakdown
of land use. In general, about 70% of the total land area is classified
as grazing land, with unimproved pastures; a further 6% is under improved
pastures. About 8% of the land area is under crops with a further 1% of
cropland lying fallow; about 6% of the land area is under forest. About
9% is classified as "other land", including urban areas, houses, roads,
water, and waste land. Marginal land and unusable land amount to more than
58% of the total. Considering natural characteristics alone, and taking no
account of social or economic conditions or prevailing levels of agricultural
technology, physical land potential may be summarized as follows:
Area '000 ha         %
Arable land 0-12% slope                385             22
Poor arable - good grazing             344             20
Wet land and rivers                     49              3
Grazing land                           452             26
Steep and Rocky                        506             29
Total land                  1,736            100



ANNEX 1
Page 4
B. Crop Production
8.        Agricultural production patterns differ materially among the four
geographic regions described above. In addition, there is a sharp distinc-
tion between a modern and traditional farming sector. Agricultural production
on freehold title land is generally operated on commercial lines by large
companies or expatriate farmers, with estates growing almost exclusively
export oriented crops. Most farming is well managed and makes use of modern
equipment and the inputs necessary for commercial production. Over 60% of
freehold title cropland is irrigated. On Swazi Nation Land, farming is mainly
for subsistence with an emerging tendency to grow more cash crops such as
cotton, tobacco, rice and vegetables. The major crops grown and production
are shown in Table 6. Table 7 shows production on Swazi Nation Land, and
Table 8 summarizes average yields. In summary, maize is grown on about 100,000
most Swazi Nation Land; sugarcane is grown on 17,000 ha, virtually all on
freehold title land; cotton occupies 13,000 ha, of which 9,000 is freehold
title land. Maize production was estimated at 88,000 tons in 1972/73, sugar
cane at 1,607,000 tons, and cotton at 12,000 tons. In terms of value, sugar
production was valued in 1972/73 at E13.4 million, citrus production at E2.8
million, and cotton on freehold title land at E2.7 million.
9.        The principal crops grown on Swazi Nation Land are described briefly
below: sugar cane and citrus, the principal economic crops in terms of
export value, are not included since their importance for small Swazi farmers
is minimal at present.
(i) Maize
10.       Mfaize is the staple food of the Swazi people and is the most widely
grown crop in the traditional areas of Swaziland. Table 9 shows maize produc-
tion data. About 40% is grown in the Middleveld, 34% in the Lowveld, 18% in
the Highveld and 8% in Lubombo. Yields fluctuate widely from season to season
and are in the range of 0.8 tons and 1.5 tons per hectare, with the lower
levels in the Lowveld region. Current yields are comparable to neighboring
countries. Experimental yields with new varieties and optimum inputs are
high, especially in the Middle and Highveld regions: normal expectations
under rain grown regime are 6.5 tons per hectare but substantially less in the
low rainfall regions. Recent seasons have produced 10 tons per hectare grain
yield from both rain and irrigated crops. Thus, the potential for very
substantial increases in yields has been proven but can only be achieved if
all inputs are used and if cultural practices are correct and properly timed.
Information as to variety and fertilizer usage, etc. is available; recommen-
dations have been derived following 16 years of agricultural research. The
optimum yields without irrigation are shown below:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Average                    Expectation of
Attainable Yield    attaining yields out of
Region                                  Ton/ha                 10 Seasons
Highveld                              6.0 - 7.1                    9
Middleveld (moist)                    5.5 - 6.5                    6-7
Lumbobo                               4.5 - 5.5                    6
Middleveld (dry)                      2.5 - 2.5                    4
Lowveld                               2.0 - 2.5                    2-3
Source: Advisory Bulletin No. 7. U.B.L.S.
11.       The most significant single problem of maize growing in Swaziland
is witch weed (Striga sp.); this plant parasite attaches itself to the roots
of the maize plant and competes for moisture and soil nutrients with corres-
ponding loss in yield. Control is by either pulling out the plants before
flowering or by several sprayings of 2.4D for three seasons. A further
problem causing fluctuations in yields is variations in weather conditions
from year to year; dry periods of two to three weeks at the time of tasseling
can be a significant problem.
12.       Storage of maize also poses problems; whether used for feed or sale,
inadequate storage results in losses, now estimated at about 20%. The main
crop is harvested in March and is stored in cribs until dry enough for shelling.
Cobs are usually shelled in June or July and the grain is put into storage.
Emphasis must be placed on drying the grain to under 12.5% moisture; threshed
corn should be treated and stored in aluminum silos which have some shade to
prevent sweating. Traditional storage methods are underground pits, woven
straw baskets, mud tanks, and clay pots. Oil drums and jute sacks are also
used. A grain storage officer in Swaziland is currently carrying on and
expanding as existing Grain Storage Project.
13.       The importance of improving maize yields within the Swaziland
farming pattern is twofold: first, substantial quantities of maize are
imported from South Africa every year; if present acreage were to yield
2 tons per ha (a modest target compared with the potential) the present
shortfall could be met. Second, if a smaller acreage of maize satisfied
family food requirements through higher yields, this would free land for
production of cash crops, thus raising farm incomes.
(ii) Cotton
14.       Cotton is grown both as a dry land crop and with irrigation in the
Middle and Lowveld regions of Swaziland. Production by Swazi farmers has
increased rapidly since 1970, and in 1975 the Swazi Nation Land share of the
crop was estimated at 42%. Table 10 shows cotton production from 1963-64 to
1973-74.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
15.       The Swaziland Cotton Board was established in 1968.  Previously,
cotton matters were dealt with by a Cotton Advisory Committee. The principal
functions of the Board are: cotton improvement, chiefly by control of plant-
ing seed through the Seed Improvement Scheme; cotton breeding work and ento-
mology work financed by the Board at the Lowveld Experiment Station, Big Bend;
advice to the Minister of Agriculture on such matters as seed importation,
dates for cotton planting, eradication; and cotton marketing. The Board
administers the Cotton Fund, derived from the cotton levy paid by growers
annually from seed cotton deliveries to ginners; from this levy subventions
(E29,309 in 1975) are paid to the University of Botswana and Swaziland (UBS)
for cotton research and improvement of planting seed supplies.
16.       The varieties of cotton seed recommended by UBS are:
Dryland (Middleveld):   Albacola 70
Dryland (Lowveld):       Albacola 70
Irrigated (Lowveld):    Deltapine 5826
Albacola 70
Cotton seed is supplied by South African companies following competitive bidding.
17.       Recommendations on all aspects of cotton growing are available
to the farmer; there is a closed season by law and the eradication date
as well as the planting date are gazetted as legal notices. Research yields
are shown below (seed cotton):
With Irrigation:    Lowveld              ceiling of 4,000 kg (20 bales) per ha.
Dryland              Lower rainfall                  1,000 kg ( 5 bales) per ha.
Higher rainfall                 2,000 kg (19 bales) per ha.
The countrywide yield for 1973 was 1,000 kg per ha.
18.       The Cotona Cotton Ginnery at Matsapa (Annex 4) is involved in
an intensive effort to promote cotton growing in Swaziland. Credit is offered
on a crop lien basis to Swazi producers through the company at rates normally
1-1/2-2% above the going bank rate. The ginnery is responsible for collection
of the crop and the price is paid, according to grade, in two separate pay-
ments. The initial payment is made at the delivery date and the final payment
at the end of the season when the crop has been sold to the South African
spinners. Costs of inputs are deducted for these payments. The dramatic
increase in cotton production by small scale Swazi farmers reflects both the
favorable price situation and the promotional efforts of the Cotton Board, the
Ministry of Agriculture, and the ginnery. Consideration is being given to
localizing the cotton ginnery or to establishing a new ginnery with Swazi



ANNEX 1
Page 7
ownership. The Cotton Board's objective is to increase production to
33,000 tons of seed cotton by 1985. In this event, another large
ginnery would be required, probably in the south of the country.
(iii) Tobacco
19.       Production of tobacco is increasing rapidly on Swazi Nation Land.
Production in the 1960's was around 40% by Swazi Nation land farmers and this
rose to 80% in 1975, when about 1,760 Swazi farms produced tobacco. Total
national production in 1975 was 258 tons; total value, at 92 c per kilogram,
was estimated at E237,352. The potential for increasing tobacco production
is excellent, given soils and climate; average yields of 1,000 kg per hectare
are easily attainable. Best yields are 2,500 kg per hectare. The profit
margin is estimated at between E1,000 and E1,400 per hectare. Table 11 shows
Tobacco Production from 1960-1974.
20.       The tobacco section of the Ministry of Agriculture at present
consists of 1 senior extension officer, 2 extension officers, 2 assistant
extension officers, and 5 field officers. This staff is assisted by an
expatriate tobacco expert and an associate expert. The objectives are
to increase production in Swaziland to 500 tons per year. Three problems or
bottlenecks in production have been identified: (i) poor quality seedlings;
(ii) shortage of drying barns; (iii) marketing problems. The problems of
seedlings will be overcome by establishing large central seed beds (274 acres
already operating) and selling good quality seedlings. Encouragement in
building suitable barns will be responsibility of the extension staff.
Initially, the tobacco section will assist with transport of tobacco to the
Nhlangano buying center but in addition plans are proceeding to establish a
further buying center at Manzini.
(iv) Sorghum
21.       Approximately 3,000 hectares are under Sorghum.  The crop is mainly
grown in the Lowveld where it is useful because of its drought resistance.
The bulk of the production is used for home brewed beer. About 100 tons a
year are sold to the Swaziland Milling Company, which imports another 3,500 -
4,000 tons per year for distribution to local retailers. The sorghum price
for 1975 was E72 per ton. Traditional yields average 800-1,000 kg per hectare;
UBS has indicated a ceiling yield of 2,700 kg per hectare.
(v) Groundnuts
22.       An estimated 5,000 hectares of groundnuts were grown in 1974;
this has remained fairly constant over the past years. Groundnuts grow best
in the moist Middleveld to the Lowveld. Traditional farming yields are low,
in the range of 600-700 kg per hectare; research yields at Malkerns and
Nhlangano have been as high as 2,000-3,000 kg, and in the Middleveld at
Luve yields from 1,500-2,000 kg per hectare. The crop probably has limited
potential for expansion in Swaziland given low gross margin returns.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
(vi) Beans
23.       Dried bean production in Swaziland is estimated currently at 1,000
m. tons per year. Only small quantities are marketed commercially. Contender,
speckled sugar, red canadian wonder and brown harricot are the most important
varieties, with speckled sugar being the most popular. Under good management
900 kg-122 kg per hectare can be expected under rain grown conditions, and up
to 1,400 kg under irrigation. Prices vary according to variety; August, 1975
prices were as follows:
Sugar Beans                      E 24 per 90 kg bag
Contender Beans                  E 20 per 90 kg bag
Jugo Beans                       E 18 per 90 kg bag
The return per hectare can be high with recommended inputs.
(vii) Rice
24.       Almost all rice grown is on freehold title land in the Middle
and Lowveld regions. A large proportion is grown in C.D.C. holdings at
Tshaneni, where the rice is milled and sold to South Africa. Small areas of
rice are grown by Swazi farmers under the supervision of Taiwanese Agricul-
tural missions at Matsapa, Emvembili and Nkungwini. About 80 farmers are
involved and in 1974 production was 316 tons of rice. In the Northern R.D.A.
(Emvembili) 47 farmers farm 2 acres each of rice, followed by vegetables
(mainly tomatoes for canning and consumption). The average income per farmer
is E 1,300 but the best farmers reach E 2,000. IR22 long grain rice is grown.
The problems that have emerged are water control, bird damage and sun crack-
ing. At present the Chinese mission provides machinery for land preparation
and harvesting free of charge. For hulling and polishing there is a fuel
charge only. Mean yields are 6 tons of paddy (unpolished rice) per hectare; 8
tons is considered feasible. On the basis of this successful experience,
irrigated rice production should be considered as an alternative in the
expansion of crop production where water is available.
(viii) Vegetables
25.       Vegetable production has increased rapidly in recent years and
at least 750 hectares were under production in 1975. The bulk of production
is on Swazi Nation Land and is grown under irrigation. Significant potential
exists and some extension staff are available to give advice on irrigation
potential and vegetable production. Most schemes have been small irrigated
plots (20-50 hectares), both within and outside RDA's. Table 12 gives data on
vegetable production. Potatoes are the principal crop and occupy 75% of the



ANNEX 1
Page 9
area under vegetables. Tomatoes, asparagus, strawberries, watermelons, and
green corn are also rapidly expanding. A level of production should shortly
be attained which would permit the substitution of all imports from South
Africa. Problems are poor marketing facilities and the lack of transport.
However, the large urban markets of Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Durban are
accessible to Swaziland and winter vegetables could be sold at these outlets.
Swazi Traditional Farming Methods
26.       Swazi traditional agriculture has two aspects:  cropping, which
is predominantly the women's occupation, and cattle raising which is normally
the men's domain. All agricultural activity, whether it be cropping or
cattle raising, is conducted according to traditional methods and techniques.
Traditional technology is very rudimentary, consisting of the hoe, used
to break the ground and cover the seed (which is often sown broadcast).
This technology is still used in many rural areas. Men have participated
increasingly in crop production with the advent of the ox-drawn plow. The
work of weeding and reaping, however, remains largely in the hands of women.
Swazi farmers often employ magic in the form of medicines mixed with the seed
before planting to give it germinating power; they are also believed to cause
the crop to multiply and thus help to achieve maximum productivity. Magic is
also used to protect crops against insects, thieves and other predators like
birds. Similarly with cattle breeding, medicines are burned in the cattle
kraal, to strengthen the cattle and to protect them against hurtful influences
and machinations of sorcerers. Women are forbidden to enter the cattle kraal
or even to drink milk or eat milk products when they are menstruating because
this might harm cattle. Certain medicines smeared on the rear of cows (com-
pounded with hippotamus fat) are supposed to be aphrodisiacs for bulls.
27.       Irrigation and rotation of crops are techniques which were not
part of the traditional store of agricultural knowledge. Knowledge about
cattle raising is generally greater than about cropping, but in both cases,
traditional methods were followed and little, if any, innovation has taken
place. Modern procedures including use of fertilizers and insecticides,
were often interpreted at first within the traditional framework of magic,
as sorcery. This has tended to discourage the use of the new techniques
because the social sanctions for witchcraft are high. These attitudes are
changing, but cognizance must be taken of such attitudes in extension work.
Demonstration fields may be a useful way to overcome prejudice. Further,
greater attention should be given to training and assisting women, to enlarge
their understanding of agriculture and to provide them with modern techniques
in raising crops, because they are the main agricultural producers.
C. Livestock
28.       Livestock plays a vital role in the Swaziland economy and is
closely integrated within traditional agriculture. Total cattle numbers



ANNEX 1
Page 10
were estimated at 620,000 in 1975; of these, about 520,000 are owned
by about 28,000 Swazi farmers, and grazed on Swazi Nation Land pastures.
The remaining 100,000, generally exotic or upgraded animals, were run
on freehold title ranches, principally in the Lowveld. The present
cattle2stocking density for all Swaziland is estimated at 36 beasts
per km , the highest in Africa. Table 13 shows livestock numbers from 1971-
1975; Table 14 shows the evolution of cattle numbers from 1948-1975. An
estimated 263,000 goats are owned by 14,000 families. Sheep are widely owned,
and virtually every farm keep some poultry, with an average of 10 per farm.
About 20,000 merino sheep trek annually from South Africa to the Highveld for
winter grazing.
29.       Livestock on Swazi Nation Land.  Cattle play a vital role in Swazi
society; by tradition, cattle ownership confers prestige and the number of
cattle owned is seen as being more important than their quality. Cattle are a
source and measure of wealth, and serve a banking function for subsistence
farmers. Work oxen commonly till fields in Swaziland, and are used for
transport; cattle provide meat and milk for the family. Cattle sales are the
principal source of cash income for Swazi Nation Land farmers. As a result of
this keen interest in livestock and their importance for traditional agricul-
ture, combined with the excellent quality of veterinary services in Swaziland,
cattle numbers have increased steadily over the past 20 years. The result is
an ever increasing number of cattle grazing a gradually decreasing area of
land, since more and more arable land is required for food crop production.
30.       The continuing increase in cattle numbers poses a serious and
urgent problem. Pastures are now seriously overstocked, with an estimated 1.8
ha per animal unit (A.U.) compared with a carrying capacity of between 2.5 and
3.0 ha per A.U. Overgrazing is common, soil erosion is occurring in certain
areas, and stock condition is affected at critical times of the year. The
overstocking problem must be viewed as a serious constraint for future live-
stock development, as no development efforts can succeed in face of the
current level of stocking and with present growth trends. Overstocking
has been recognized as a serious threat to development in Swaziland for many
years; it is troubling to observe that despite this recognition and efforts to
reduce herd size, cattle numbers continue to increase without abatement.
31.       Traditional husbandry techniques aggravate the problems of over-
stocking. Pasture land is owned communally and there is no systematic manage-
ment in herding and grazing. Animals graze crop residues within the chiefdom
of their owners in winter, and communal pastures in summer. They are kraaled
at night, cows are milked daily, and animals are seldom if ever fed supple-
ments. Weekly or biweekly visits to the Government dipping tank have been
compulsory for some decades and appear to be virtually universally accepted;
indeed, dip-tanks have become a traditional gathering place and cattle market.
In 1970, 60% of all farms had cattle, and average herd size was 19; only a
small number of farmers (less than 5%) owned more than 50 head of cattle.
Technical coefficients were poor with low calving rates (probably less than



ANNEX 1
Page 11
50%) and slow growth to maturity. Mortality ranges between 4 and 10%, and has
averaged about 6% over the past decade. Malnutrition is probably the principal
cause of high mortality and low fertility. These low coefficients are not
surprising given rudimentary husbandry techniques and the limited importance
attached to commercial-style production of animals for sale as beef.
32.       An important traditional practice in Swaziland is "sisa", whereby
cattle are effectively loaned by one individual to another. The lender
retains his ownership rights and can claim offspring; the borrower has
the full right to utilize the animal for milk or draft.
Commercial Cattle Ranching
33.       On free%old title land, over 100,000 cattle are run on modern-
style ranches, on a strictly commercial basis. CDC holds a substantial
herd in the vicinity of Tshaneni. About 50% of commercial ranch cattle are in
the Lowveld. Availability of pasture land is good, and stocking rates do not
exceed levels recommended as optimal for the country; significant amounts of
pasture land have been improved by bush-clearing and by pasture improvement.
Marketed offtake from freehold title ranches is estimated at 14% a year,
and the quality of animals produced is generally excellent; virtually all
cattle are exotic breeds or improved local stock. Successful ranching has
demonstrated the potential for profitable livestock production in Swaziland on
a technical level.
Animal Health
34.       The animal health situation is good, both on Swazi Nation Land
and on freehold title land. The major African cattle scourges are not
present in Swaziland (East Coast Fever, eliminated since the 1950's, rinder-
pest, bovine pleuroneumonia), while other diseases are systematically and
effectively controlled by a well-organized and well-staffed veterinary ser-
vice. Swaziland's position within Southern Africa explains to a large degree
the Government's success in instituting and carrying out effective disease
control programs. There are no restrictions on exports of beef from Swaziland
on health grounds. The principal disease control technique is dipping; the
country is divided into dip tank areas, and dipping is compulsory every week
in summer, and every second week in winter. There are about 345 Government-
owned dip tanks and sprays, where dipping is free for Swazi Nation Land
cattle, and 340 privately-owned and operated dip tanks and spray races, which
are inspected by the Government. Livestock are inspected at dips and smears
are taken as a routine measure from all dead and slaughtered cattle. Failure
to bring all cattle for dipping results in prosecution, including a stiff
fine: there were 1,200 prosecutions in 1975. Records kept at dip-tanks are
complete and apparently remarkably accurate, providing a good basis for
control of cattle movement and an excellent statistical base for analysis of
the herd. One problem is that resistant strains of ticks have developed, and
the veterinary service is seeking to replace current dipping materials with a
more effective substance that is also biodegradable.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
35.       Foot-and-Mouth disease is a continuing threat to Swaziland because
it is endemic in neighboring Mozambique. Strict precautions have been
established in Eastern Swaziland to control movement of cattle from Mozambique
and adjacent areas. A buffer zone has been created between a cordon fence
along the border and a second cordon fence, 24 km. west of the border. Two
quarantine stations have been established along the second cordon fence, and
all animals entering any part of Swaziland west of the cordon from the buffer
zone must be vaccinated against FMD and are quarantined. Only two outbreaks
of the disease have occurred during this century, one in 1965 and one in
1969.
36.       Other continuing disease problems are brucellosis, which is being
controlled by a new compulsory calf vaccination campaign started in 1974
in Hhohho district, and beef measles (cysticercus bovis): this disease
results in substantial condemnation at slaughter (12% of carcasses were
infected in 1975), and hence economic loss, but disease control must begin
with sanitary conditions of the human population. Blackquarter takes a heavy
toll of young cattle, despite the availability of an effective vaccine.
Parasites are a problem, particularly for young cattle, but control measures
appear to be effective. Tuberculosis is not a serious problem, and only 3
carcasses at the abattoir were found infected in 1975. Anthrax is not a
common disease in Swaziland; two cases were recorded in 1975. Health control
for animals other than cattle is also effective, and most common diseases are
fully controlled, although the orientation of the veterinary service is towards
cattle. Sheep and goats are dipped routinely every year, and vaccination is
effectively carried out. Parasitism, heartwater, and sheep scab and goat
manage are the principal diseases recorded in small stock. For poultry,
Newcastle disease is the most serious problem, and 379,000 birds were vac-
cinated in 1975. Fowl pox is common, but is declining.
37.       The Animal Disease Act of 1933 provides an effective tool for
control of animal disease; the Director of Veterinary Services has wide
powers if disease problems threaten. He can quarantine areas, restrict stock
movement, order vaccination programs, and enforce such regulations. The
result is that Swaziland; regime of animal health services is excellent.
Cattle Breeds and Herd Structure
38.       Cattle are predominantly of the local Nguni breed; they are well
adapted to survival under Swaziland conditions, but are slow to develop
and productivity for dairy or beef is low. Exotic breeds have been success-
fully introduced on freehold title ranches, but little upgrading has been done
on Swazi Nation land to date. The principal breeds introduced to date have
been beef type animals of the Africander, Brahman, Hereford, and Simmentalher
breeds (and crosses); exotic or upgraded animals account for about 7% of the
total cattle population. The herd structure on Swazi Nation Land is charac-
terized by large numbers of old oxen and a high bull-cow ratio (average 1:10
compared with a recommended rate of 1:25). Male animals are seldom castrated
at a young age, and herd structure is characterized also by the high proportion
of old and unproductive females. Table 15 gives a breakdown of herd structure
in 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 13
Pasture
39.       About 1,324,000 ha are classified as grazing land, or 76% of the
total land area of Swaziland; much is of poor quality, and can also be classi-
fied as waste land (para. 11). About 801,580 ha is on Swazi Nation Land, and
522,472 ha on freehold title land; 124,436 ha is reported as improved.
Quality of pasture varies widely, from region to region, and with the level of
stocking. In general, Highveld and Middleveld pastures are of poorer quality
than the Lowveld; grass species are poor, and many pastures are referred to as
'"sour veld", characteristic of poorly drained areas with acid soils; grasses
are generally unpalatable to cattle during winter. Middleveld pastures are
significantly affected by overgrazing, and the consequences are sparse inter-
ceptive canopy, or even bare ground, and much soil erosion. Grasses are
moderately sour with scattered low trees. In the Lowveld, more fertile, less
acid soils support numerous grass species which are highly nutritious, excel-
lent grazing grasses. Panicum, Themeda, Brachiaria and Setaria species are
abundant after the rains. Grasses are generally "sweet" - palatable and
nutritious all year. However, any weakening or destruction of the grasses
upsets the natural balance between them and the trees; overgrazing in the
Lowveld thus results in encroachment by thorny scrub which is difficult to get
rid of. Lubombo pastures have close affinities with the Middleveld, although
there are rare plants here more closely linked with the Zululand coastal
belt.
40.       In general, pastures on freehold title land are well-managed,
stocking rates are close to optimal levels for all regions, and over-grazing
is rare. However, on many freehold title farms, particularly those with
absentee owners, Swazi Nation Land cattle graze freely and pasture deterio-
ration is a problem. On Swazi Nation land pastures, overgrazing is a
serious problem, the result of overstocking and the lack of grazing manage-
ment (para. 38). Optimum stocking rates are estimated at 2.65 ha per A.U.
for the Middleveld and Highveld and 4.0 ha for the Lowveld; the latter figure
is high because of the high level of bush encroachment and the small propor-
tion of arable crops which could provide fodder during the winter. Current
stocking rates are 2.1 ha per A.U. for the Lowveld, 1.33 ha per A.U. for the
Middleveld, and 1.94 ha per A.U. for the Highveld. Overgrazing has resulted in
denudation of pasture in the Highveld and Middleveld and has exacerbated bush
encroachment in the Lowveld.
41.       Efforts to improve pastures, increasing carrying capacities and
raising the nutritive quality of grasses, fall into three categories: (a) bush
clearing; (b) pasture control and management; and (c) pasture improvement.
Bush encroachment has significantly reduced available pasture in the Lowveld
since thick bush prevents cattle from grazing on increasingly wide areas;
efforts have been undertaken to clear bush and control further encroachment.
Experiments recently undertaken under the aegis of the FAO/UNDP Livestock
Project include mechanical, chemical, biological and bush burning methods,
with techniques varying for different types of bush.   The objective is to
determine which methods are most effective and most economic for long-term
control of various types and densities of bush. The most successful method
tried to date on thick bush in the Lowveld zone involves chaining (with large



ANNEX 1
Page 14
tractors) followed by burning. Simple hand-cutting with axe and chain saws
in the higher bush characteristic of the Middleveld (also followed by burning)
has proved satisfactory. Particularly in rural development areas, efforts are
underway to improve pasture management through control of stock numbers and
establishment of rotational grazing. Finally, pasture improvement is being
undertaken, although still largely at an experimental level. New pasture
species are being evaluated at the UBS research station, and field testing is
being carried out. Different pasture establishment methods are being em-
ployed, including sod-seeding, sowing after burning and full cultivation.
Possible establishment of "green belts" of Napier grass, setaria or stylo-
santhes are being considered together with replacement of current grass strips
on arable land (all native species) with improved varieties. Research results
demonstrate that improvement of pasture combined with improved management
could dramatically increase pasture carrying capacity and contribute to
resolution of overstocking problems.
Government Livestock Installations
42.       The Government is currently involved directly in livestock produc-
tion through its veterinary and livestock services, operation of fattening
ranches, breeding stations and livestock extension centers, and research
and training. These activities are described briefly below. Annex 6 describes
the organization of livestock services.
43.       Fattening Ranches.  The Ministry of Agriculture operates two
fattening ranches, and has plans to open two additional ranches in the near
future. These ranches form part of the Government's policy of destocking and
export promotion. Swazi producers are encouraged to send cattle to ranches,
thus reducing pressure on communal pasture; on the ranches, quality of cattle
is substantially improved in a relatively short period through good management
on good pastures. One ranch at Lavumisa was established in 1964 as a holding
ground; the other at Impala has operated since the 1950s. Table 16 gives
details of current and proposed fattening ranches.
44.       The fattening ranches accept all cattle, but priority is now
given to cattle from Swazi Nation Land. All owners pay a fee of EO.65
per month, deducted from the final sale price. In theory, only steers
are accepted at the ranches, with bulls castrated on entry. In practice,
both females and bulls have been kept on the ranches in the past (witness
figures on calves in Table 17).  Owners retain some right to indicate
when they wish to sell animals, but the ranch can sell animals following
a specified number of refusals.  On sending an animal to a fattening
ranch, the owner can now obtain a cash loan for 80% of the value of the
animal from SDSB, receiving the remaining portion plus profit from
weight gain and improvement in grade on final sale. The fattening
ranches have not in the past contributed to resolving overstocking pro-
blems; this is partly because they are not sufficiently well-known among
Swazi farmers, but also because substantial numbers of animals from
freehold title farm have been accepted. Currently, a major effort is



ANNEX 1
Page 15
being made to improve management on the ranches and to promote the idea
of sending animals to a fattening ranch for profit among Swazi farmers.
Table 17 shows the origin and disposition of cattle passing through the
Lavumisa and Impala ranches during 6 months of 1975.
45.       The government also proposes to establish "SISA" ranches to aid in
destock and upgrading the national herd (Table 16). ODM is expected to
finance development, and ranches are to be located on areas purchased under
the ODM land purchase scheme (Annex 2). "SISA" ranches are derived in concept
from the traditional practice of SISA (para 32); farmers would "lend" breeding
females to ranches, which would progressively improve and upgrade stock. The
Livestock Department proposes to use SISA ranches as holding grounds for excess
RDA cattle until the ultimate concept is fully understood and established.
46.       Breeding Stations.  Three breeding stations are now operating,
at Big Bend in the Lowveld, at Mpisi in the Middleveld, and near
Mahlangatsha in the Highveld. The latter station has received assistance
from USAID; the two former stations have benefitted from ODM and FAO/
UNDP assistance. The principal objectives have been experimental,
maintenance of stud herds, and production of improved bulls for sale or
distribution to Swazi farmers. The breeding program at present focuses
on improving the Nguni breed through upgrading with Brahman and Simmentalher
in a three-way cross scheme. Emphasis is placed on keeping detailed perfor-
mance records and evaluating the breeding program as it progresses. Although
breeding programs have been in existence for some time, it is only recently
that a major and systematic breeding program has been instituted, it is too
early to assess results at this stage.
47.       Livestock Extension Centers.  Two livestock extension centers
operate at Mpisi and at Big Bend. The objective was to encourage Swazi
farmers to send cows to the center to be bred to improved bulls.
48.       Livestock Research.  Animal production research is concentrated
the three breeding stations, where research work includes collection and
processing of data. Additional research work is concerned with feeding
trials with sorghum silage, mineral and protein additives suitable for feedlot
fattening, growth promoting supplements, and stocking rate trials to establish
carrying capacity. These trials have been relatively limited to date and have
been centered at fattening and breeding ranches. Bush control experiments
have been conducted, on both breeding and fattening ranches, and UBLS is
conducting pasture research at Malkerns. The Veterinary Department engages in
veterinary research related to disease problems. Up to the present, veterinary
and animal health research has dominated the livestock field, to the detriment
of animal production; on the other hand, Swaziland benefits considerably from
work under similar ecological conditions in the Republic of South Africa.
Milk Production and the Dairy Industry
49.       Milk is an important product of traditional animal husbandry in
Swaziland; cows in milk are normally milked once or twice daily during



ANNEX 1
Page 16
the summer months. Milk is a basic staple of the diet, and is generally
consumed in a soured, curdled form. Only a small proportion of milk pro-
auced is sold for cash, but within rural communities sales of fresh milk
fetch high prices. Annual production is estimated at an average of 350
liters per cow, of which about 150 liters is consumed by the calf. Table 18
shows holdings reporting cows and milking cows.
50.       The commercial dairy industry in Swaziland is small, and supplies
of milk for the urban population are largely provided by imports of liquid
milk from the Republic of South Africa. Fresh milk produced in Swaziland
comes principally from a few freehold title farms, which produced an estimated
660,000 liters of fresh milk in 1973-74, and from traditional producers in the
Lowveld who provide milk to the dairy plant. In 1974-75, freehold title deed
farmers sold 120,000 liters to the Swaziland Dairy Board, and Swazi Lowveld
producers sold 212,500 liters. About 1.1 million liters of fresh milk were
imported. Local production is concentrated in the summer months, November-
May, leaving a large import requirement during the period May to November to
meet local demand for fresh milk. Data on overall milk production indicates
that only about 1% of milk produced in Swaziland and retained for human
consumption is sold through commercial channels. Sales were higher in the
past, and in 1960 Swazi farmers sold the equivalent of 5 million liters of
milk in the form of cream. This was sold to the Republic of South Africa as
butterfat, while skim milk was retained by farmers. Because of low producer
prices, deterioration of collecting facilities, and poor management of the
company concerned, production sales declined drastically, to less than 1
million liters equivalent in 1972. The Swaziland Dairy Board, created in 1971
is responsible for processing, purchasing, and marketing all dairy products in
Swaziland. An ISCDD (International Scheme for the Coordination of Dairy
Development) mission visited Swaziland in 1973 and produced projections
on supply and demand, and on management of the dairy industry. Dairy Board
operations are described in Annex 4.
Livestock in Swaziland: Problems and Potential
51.       The scope for livestock development in Swaziland is considerable;
potential for both expanded beef production (largely for export) and dairy
production (for domestic consumption) is good. Although production oriented
research in Swaziland has been limited, nevertheless commercial farming
has demonstrated successful and economic farming techniques and patterns,
while experience in neighboring areas in South Africa is also relevant for
some parts of Swaziland. The principal problems for livestock development are
overstocking and the need to encourage fundamental changes in traditional
production techniques. These problems are complex and difficult, and arise
from basic social patterns and farmer motivation; they have been recognized
for many years and efforts to overcome them have met with limited success.
Nevertheless, the growing urgency of the problem of overgrazing and increasing
pressure on grazing land as arable area expands offer some grounds for opti-
mism that farmers will respond to development programs. Solutions to the
over-stocking problem are not readily available. A number of measures have



ANNEX 1
Page 17
been attempted since the problem was recognized as such, ranging from pub-
licity campaigns, establishment of holding grounds to remove cattle from
communal pastures, and a compulsory levy of 10% of all herds imposed by the
King in the 1940's for the Lifa fund. Current efforts focus on offering
incentives for farmers to send cattle to fattening ranching by demonstrating
their profitability, and increasing carrying capacity on Swazi Nation Land
pastures by improving herd management (fencing, rotational grazing) and
pasture improvement. Nevertheless, this promises to be a long, slow effort,
with no guarantee of success. Other proposal include imposition of restric-
tions on total herd numbers in a given area, commensurate with its carrying
capacity, and removal of breeding animals and progeny to sisa ranches, making
Swazi Nation land pastures effectively fattening areas for beef. It may be
necessary in the not distant future to schedule areas, fix maximum cattle
therein, and impose sanctions on those who violate the regulations. The
Government is understandably reluctant to impose such restrictive and nega-
tive controls, preferring to rely on chiefs to work out local solutions to the
problem, but recognizes that more generalized control mechanisms may neverthe-
less become inescapable.
D. Fisheries
52.       The potential for fisheries development in Swaziland was largely
ignored until recently. Beginning in 1972, the Ministry of Agriculture
showed interest in developing a fisheries program and within the last two
years, a U.N.D.P. expert assisted by a Peace Corps worker has initiated
a development project which has aroused considerable interest and enthusiasm.
The fisheries program aims at exploring the potential for fisheries in
Swaziland, and is concerned with the promotion of fish ponds, the exploita-
tion of fish in existing dams, and fishing in rivers. The Swazi population,
despite the absence of traditions of fishing or consuming fish, have res-
ponded to initial development efforts, notably fish ponds, far more readily
than anticipated, and fish appears to be giving acceptance as part of the
diet quite rapidly. There is excellent potential for fish pond development.
Many ponds (about 200) are located in Rural Development Areas; they are
stocked with carp and tilapia. The possibility of trout farming is being
explored in the Highveld. Two fish hatcheries are now operating, one situated
in Mbabane and the other in the Highveld. CDC is involved in commercial
fishing at the Sand River Reservoir, and are selling fish at 90c per kilo.
There is some prospect that the Dairy Board may in future become involved in
fish marketing.
E. Agricultural Research
53.       Agricultural research was the direct responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture from 1958-1971, and during this period Swaziland which received
substantial aid for research from the Commonwealth Development and Welfare funds.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
In 1971, however, the research division was transferred to the University of
Botswana and Swaziland (UBS), and now forms part of the University. There is
some possibility that the research division may revert to the Ministry
of Agriculture in the near future, but no formal decision has yet been made.
The research division functions under policy guidance from the National
Research Council; an agriculture committee establishes priorities for research
within the Council's broad policy structure. Priorities are translated into
work programs by the research division during planning meetings. The research
budget is voted entirely separately, however, as part of the University's
overall budget process.
54.       The basic objective of the Research division is to produce
practical, economic recommendations on crop and animal production,
which will assist in the economic improvement of the agricultural industry
in Swaziland. In summary, most aspects of crop research have been well
covered by past programs, and future work programs are planned to fill
gaps in existing knowledge. Further work on irrigation and mechanization
is proposed, in addition to specialized subjects such as tobacco and
grain storage. The Agricultural Research Division publishes high quality
advisory bulletins summarizing the division's work; these should serve
as guides for extension workers and farmers.
55.       The research division is based at the University's campus in
the Malkerns valley, near Manzini.  Research stations are operated at
the following locations: the Lowveld Experiment Station, Big Bend,
the Nlangano Experimental Farm, the Hebron Research Plot, the Mangcongco
Research Plot, and the Luve Research Plot. A research plot was operated
at Vuvulane, but was discontinued in August, 1975. A proposal is now
under consideration to establish a further research plot at Mdimba.
56.       Headed by a Chief Research Officer, the research division has
12 sections, which reflect its principal research activities:
Crop Agronomy
Soil Fertility and Crop Nutrition
Horticulture
Pasture and Veld Management
Plant Pathology
General Entomology
Soil Chemistry
Soil Physics
Dryland Crop Agronomy
Biometrics
Cotton Breeding
Cotton Entomology
The chief research officer is also responsible for maintaining close liaison
with two wholly-industry financed units; for some years Government policy has



ANNEX 1
Page 19
encouraged the modern sector of agriculture to assume responsibility for
running its own affairs and meeting its own research requirements. Since
1966, with financial aid from the U.K. and elsewhere, non-government research
units have been set up for pineapple, citrus, forestry and to a limited extent
cotton breeding and entomology.
57.       A brief description of the various research sections follows:
(a) Crop Agronomy: Trials concentrating mainly on variety evaluation
have taken place for many crops. These have been followed by
population, times of planting, fertilizer application, and
herbicide testing trials. From results of this work, general
husbandry recommendations for most regions of the country have
been formulated, including varieties, plant population and
spacing, times of planting, fertilizer, weed control, and
cultivation techniques. Future work will include maintaining
a watching brief on the major crops and developing major exotic
crops in a systematic fashion from introduction through compila-
tion of complete recommendations.
(b) Soil Fertility and Crop Nutrition: The primary objective of the
section remains the definition of crop response related to soil
type and regions, and to major and minor nutrients within
Swaziland. During 1966 a comprehensive district fertilizer
program was initiated, and continued with increasingly extensive
countrywide coverage until 1972/1973. The results of this sub-
stantial exercise remain to be finalized, and should help to
improve fertilizer recommendations. As the district fertilizer
program replaced the need for traditional N.P.K. trials, more
emphasis was placed on time and trace element response. The
work of the section has been restricted in recent years due to
lack of staff.
(c) Horticulture: The section was reestablished in 1971 after a
break of six years. Most previous work was on pineapple and
citrus, which are now run and financed by the industries
concerned. The main objectives concentrate on fresh
market vegetables within the following outline:
(i) The introduction of new varieties of vegetables and
fruits to improve the quality and eventually bring
year round production of fresh vegetables in Swaziland.
(ii) To investigate all aspects of vegetable growing in order
to produce a complete list of recommendations for the various
climatic zones of Swaziland. This information will then be
available for use by farmers and could form the basis for
future work if a particular market or industry were created
for specific crops.



ANNEX 1
Page 20
(iii) To assess the feasibility of growing crops for exports to
Europe.
Recommendations for growing most vegetables in the Middle and
Lowveld are available; the following are fully documented:
Asparagus               Green beans             beetroot
cabbage                 carrot                  cauliflower
eggplant                green peas              lettuce
onion                   peppers                 Swiss chard
pumpkin                 squash                  tomato
melon
Research work on crops for canning continues and includes investigation on
tomatoes, asparagus, youngberry and granadillas. Further work includes a
complete appraisal of subtropical fruit production potential with the
production of advisory bulletins on: (i) Strawberry, youngberry,
granadilla; (ii) Paw-paw, pineapple, banana; (iii) Avocado, guava, litchi;
(iv) Macadamia, pecan; (v) Mango, citrus and (vi) Temperate fruits (apple,
plum, peach, pear, apricot).
(d) Pasture and Veld Management: Pasture research resumed in 1974
with the appointment of a research officer. The new program
is centered on three basic activities:
(i) Plant introduction and testing
(ii) Nutritional studies
(iii) Evolution of management techniques using field
scale trials with livestock.
Much information is available on the first two items and great importance is
now paid to field scale trials. Cooperation with the range management
specialist on the Ministry of Agriculture fattening ranches and also with the
project managers of R.D.A.'s is being maintained so that techniques can be
experimented with on a field scale. The importance of bush encroachment is
recognized and experiments with vigorous legumes as a control are being
considered. Efforts are being made to find a simple system for seeding
undisturbed but possible denuded and eroded pasture without the use of
machinery.
(e) Plant Pathology: The Plant Pathology Research unit has both a
service and a research function. With the imminent appointment
of a replacement research officer the section has several
immediate tasks to perform:
(i) To streamline the routine control and servicing of
phytosanitary regulations including revising the
regulations;
(ii) To provide a checklist of major crop diseases within
Swaziland as a basis for future investigational
and advisory work;



ANNEX 1
Page 21
(iii) To institute trial programmes, where applicable, on crops
already known to require urgent attention, including cotton
(verticillium wilt), field beans (rust), rice (blast),
and a range of vegetable crops.
(f) Entomology: This section was established in early 1976 with
the following objectives:
(i) Compilation of a checklist of all insect pests for the
major and minor crops within Swaziland;
(ii)  The development of a research programme to provide
practical and economic recommendations for the control
of the various insect complexes;
(iii) To maintain and enlarge the existing insect collection.
(g)  Soil Chemistry:  The soil chemistry section has been responsible
for providing backup soil and plant analysis for the Ministry
of Agriculture. The section fulfills the following functions:
(i) continuation of the present cooperative soil and plant
analysis service to other research sections;
(ii)  development of soil and plant analysis techniques to
provide information for more detailed and accurate
fertilizer recommendations;
(iii) determining more closely the interaction between lime
application, soil pH, and availability of major
nutrients on plant growth and productivity;
(iv)  in cooperation with the Soil Fertility Section to assess
the micro-nutrient status of soils in Swaziland;
(v) in conjunction with the Soil Physics Section, to provide
recommendations on reclamation and management of saline
and sodic soils with particular reference to irrigation
schemes.
(h) Soil Physics: The unit was formed in May 1976 for the following
reasons:
(i) The noted structural deterioration of what were previously
regarded as prime agricultural soils;
(ii)  The almost complete lack of data on soil physical properties
(infiltration rates, hydraulic conductivity, water holding
capacity, aggregate size distribution, stability and
porosity) and their relation to dryland and irrigated
crop production practices.



ANNEX I
Page 22
(i)  Dryland Crop Agronomy:  The main objective of this section
will be to develop and describe economic methods of crop
production suitable for the management of raingrown crops.
The emphasis is on the development of farm management
practices and farming systems.
(j) Biometrics: This section is being established and con-
firmation of funding is still awaited.
(k) Cotton Breeding: The unit is assisted by a cotton breeder
under a technical assistance agreement with the U.K.
government. Its objectives are:
(i) To find cotton varieties particularly suited to the
Swaziland environment which will give high yields,
high ginning percentages and lint suitable for the
textile industries of Swaziland and South Africa.
(ii) To test imported varieties and to consider the need to
incorporate into any new Swaziland variety the following
traits:
Tolerance to Verticillium wilt
Resistance to other diseases, including
Bacterial Blight
Resistance to Jassid
Resistance to other pests
Storm resistance
Compact growth habit
Earliness
Reduced seed coat fuzz
High oil and protein content of seed.
(iii) To maintain stocks from many parts of the world which may
have been grown commercially in Swaziland or in trials,
these stocks to include Del Cerro and other long staple
types, which could be grown under irrigation in the
Lowveld if conditions were suitable.
(iv) To maintain rogued stocks of the current commercial
varieties and promote a certified seed scheme for the
commercial production of seed for sale to farmers.
Only the first stage (RR) to be grown on the
Experiment Station, the second and third stages to
be grown on commercial farms.
(1) Cotton Entomology: The work of this section has in the past con-
centrated on providing small scale farmers with the methods and
knowledge to undertake efficient pest control. In summary, the
results of five seasons work are as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 23
(i) Spraying equipment design was re-assessed and emphasis
placed on the use of the tailboom;
(ii) Insecticides and acaricides were re-appraised and with
carbaryl and dimethoate the continued recommendation
of D.D.T. to the exclusion of a more toxic alternative
was made;
(iii) The problems of small scale farmers in measuring insecticides
in the field were considered. The production of heat-sealed
polythene packs containing sufficient amounts for knapsack-
full and bearing properly printed instructions in English
and in Swazi was organized; these have been on sale for the
last three seasons;
(iv) The timing of spraying in relation to pest infestation and
the economics of pest control on raingrown crops were
examined. Detailed scouting recommendations were issued
including specially printed scouting booklets as aids;
(v) For use by farmers in drier areas the development of methods
of use and of insecticides for a battery powered U.L.V.
atomiser was carried out. A functioning research project
with vehicle and a senior staff member was handed over to
the Ministry of Agriculture before the 1973-74 season to
facilitate the controlled expansion of the technique.
Although all of this work is relevant for the small farmer,
much of it also has significance for the large scale grower.
The correct insecticides to use, the timing of spraying and
scouting and the development of the handheld U.L.V. technique
are all of direct interest to the large grower. Future tasks
include working briefs on pesticides, on insect resistance and
the production of cotton production hand briefs for Swaziland.
In general, there is a need to direct agricultural research efforts
more directly to the needs of small farmers and to establish more clearly
links between extension and research. The transfer of research to the Ministry
of Agriculture should assist in attaining this objective.
F. Soil Conservation
58.       The major erosion problems in Swaziland arise through overgrazing
on the higher slopes. Very little erosion is evident on the arable areas,
although there are some signs of erosion along badly aligned waterways.
Virtually all arable land in Swaziland has grass strips on the contour.
This is the result of an extensive campaign during the 1940s; grass strips
were made compulsory, and were established following an order from the King
(then Paramount Chief). The strips have been maintained in a remarkable
fashion, and appear to have been effective in controlling soil erosion except
where poorly aligned.



ANNEX 1
Page 24
59.       To date there has been a very intensive program of terracing
in the existing rural development areas. These are machine made terraces
involving a sloped contour bund replacing the grass slopes and taking
runoff water into fenced waterways. The advantages of these terraces
are that they help to prevent soil erosion (although there is no real
evidence that they are more efficient than well aligned grass strips).
Secondly, together with the removal of grass strips terracing makes the
task of farm consolidation somewhat easier. The main disadvantage
of the terraces is that the cost has risen to at least E65 per hectare
which means that it would be virtually impossible to carry it out on a
wide scale. Further, machinery and staff are insufficient to meet even
modest targets. Shortages and breakdowns of heavy equipment have
delayed the terracing progress and it has become a major bottleneck in
rural development programs.
60.       The Government and the appraisal mission agreed that under the
proposed Project, terracing works should be substantially modified and
reduced. Full terracing should be undertaken only where steeper slopes
would justify the investment as a soil conservation technique. Elsewhere,
reduced terracing (i.e. every 3 to 4 grass strips) and realignment of
grass strips should be sufficient, and should facilitate maintenance in
future. A full study of the problem of soil conservation and the utility
of various forms of terracing would be very useful, and USAID is likely
to undertake such a study as part of their design of a proposed project
to strengthen the Land Development section. Experience to date seems
sufficient to justify a modified program, given the high costs involved
of continuing with existing policies, particularly since these policies
are not themselves based on reliable basic studies.
61.       Since the principal soil erosion problems arise from over-
grazing on the uplands, emphasis should be placed on livestock develop-
ment programs in future as the most effective way to prevent further
soil erosion and to conserve land resources.
January 13, 1977



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Summary of Characteristics of Geographic Regions                   Popula;-:-   Estimated
tion on      1976 Popula-
Swazi Nation tion on SNL
Land Use & Crop                       Area      Land,
Region         Altitude  Annual Rainfall  Mean Temperature Pattern Feature                                   1966
(m)          (mm)             (OC)                                                (km )
Highveld       910-1830  1016-2286         Max:21-22.6       Highly mineralized,                    5,029.5  57,808          78,447
(mean 1270)      Min.10.8-11.4    afforested, winter
grazing of sheep, maize-
potatoes.
Middleveld     330-1070   762-1143-        Max:23.8-26.2    Some forest, grassland, mixed farm-- 6,597.5 126,841            172,126
(mean 940)      Min.11.7-13.1    ing, maize, beans, sorghum, tobacco,
cotton; also pineapple, citrus and
rice on freehold title farms.
Lowveld         60-730    508-890          Max:29.2-29.8    Dense thorn thiekets to parkland sa- 6,416.2  62,246             84,469
(mean 660)      Min.15.4-15.6    vannah ranches, maize, beans, sorghum,
cotton,groundnuts. Citrus,rice,cotton
and sugar cane on freehold title land.
Lubombo        270-820    635-1016         Max:24.9          Deep, cultivable soils at places,    1,321.2  15,526            21,069
(mean 787)      Min.13.9         maize and beans,cattle ranches; sugar
on freehold title and Tibiyo farms.
17,364.4 262,421         356,111
All Swaziland   60-1830   508-2286         Max:21.0-29.8
(mean 660-1270) Min.l0.8-15.4
1/ Mission Estimate
Source:  Agricultural Sample Census (Swazi Nation Land), 1971-72
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 2
SWAZILAND
Rural Development Project
Climate Histograms
in     Mbabane                     Manzini                      Wissairode                   Stegi
1904-1967                   1899-1967                    1922-1967                    1899-1967
1 0
9               ~~~cm
8.                    20    i
7                           7                     cm                                  in                     cm
6                     15    6                     15                                  6                      15
5                           5                           in 
cm
4 F               i   10    4                     10 4l IJ,  [n _            _10                             10
3                           3                            3                            3
2                     5 2                         5 2                           5 2                          5
1                   ~~~~~~~1                      1                            1
0                    0  0                         0      0                     0      0                     0
HIGHVELD                  MIDDLEVELD                      LOWVELD                      LUBOMBO
O~~~~~~F                            0FOFF
90 -   Mbabane              F      Manzini         c    F      Wisseirode                  Stegi
90   ~ 1904-1967            90      1905-1967                    1948-1967    C   90         1899-1967       C
30                          30                           30                         - 30
80 _                        s0                           80                           80
25                          25                           25             \             25
70                     20   70                     20   70                  / 20  70                          20
. ~~>\    //                \\    ~I    P_/
60                     15   60                /     15   60               I      15   60     \                15
\  J                  \~~~ /                        \  J                                /\o
50                                                                               10   50                      10
,      /                                                     11tJ
40   Mean max. 730 F         40  Mean max. 790 F         40  Mean max. 840 F          40  Mean max. 770 F  5
Mean min. 510 F             Mean mnin. 560 F             Mean min. 600 F              Mean min. 530 F
JFMAMJJASOND                JFMAMJJASOND                 JFMAMJJASOND                 JFMAMJJASOND
Mean monthly rainfall, January to December
-  Lower 4.1 confidence limits in respect of monthly rainfall
- Mean daily maximum air temperature
-  Mean daily minimum air temperature
SOURCE:   G. Murdoch, "Soils and Land Capability in Swaziland"
Ministry of Agriculture, 1968                                             World Bank-16480



SWAZILAND                                ANNEX 1
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         Table 3
Rainfall Data - 1975
(mm.)
Manzini/Matsapa                  Lowveld (Big Bend)
(Middleveld)
January                         162.56                            305
February                        147.32                            248
March                           114.30                             27
April                            53.34                             96
May                              25.40                              7
June                             15.24                             13
July                             15.24                              1
August                           20.32                              2
September                        43.18                             65
October                          76.20                             26
November                        116.84                             54
December                        134.62                            138
Annual Total                  912                              982 1/
I / Rainfall recorded is unusually high; average rainfall 533 mm.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture data.
September 13, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 4
SWAZI LAND
Rural Development Project
Slope Categories: General Statement of Potential
ACREAGES OF SLOPE CATEGORIES                                    C0>+
22
7% 
0%              3%1
Z        Y                X                     W              V            U          Slope Category
20       650              870                  960             370        1,430        Thousand Acres
Note that potential may be modified according to farming system and soil r3ting
SLOPE                                  IRRIGATED CROPS                                   RAINGROWN
CATEGORY                   OVERHEAD                        SURFACE                       CROPS
Z                     Good if orained               7:nfit                         Good if drained
Y                     Good if cora,necd'~u  .2, -rsimed                            Good if drained
X                     Goocd if conserved             Fair if conserved             Good if conserved
W                      Fair if conserved             Uif it                        Good if conserved
V                     Unfit                          Unf it                        Fair if conserved
U                     Unfilt                         Unfit                         Unf it
SOURCE: G. Murdoch, Op. cit.
World Bank-i16476



ANNEX 1
Table 5
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Use, 1973-74
(hectares)
Swazi Nation       Freehold Title       Whole
Land Use                 Land.2/            Land                  country
Cropland:                101 394             56 513                 157 907
of which in crops       86 285             47 037                 133 322
Grazing land:            801 581            522 472               1 324 053
of which improved            -            124 436                 124 436
Commerical Forests             -            101 980                 101 980
11
All other Land             6 873            136 343                 143 216
Urban Areas                  -                   -                  9300
Total Land               909 848            817 308               1 736 456
1/
includes roads, houses, mining areas
2/
since 1973 the development of commercial sugar and forests on SNL has
altered these figures slightly.
Source:  Central Statistics Office, Mbabane.
July 28, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 6
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production - 1972-73 - Cropping Pattern and Volume of Production
Swazi Nation Land          Freehold Title Land         Country (Total)
('000 ha)  ('000 tons)   ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)        ('000 ha)  ('000 tons)
Maize        70.6         77.9          7.1        9.9              77.7         87.8
Groundnuts    4.4          2.6           .1         .1               4.5          2.7
Beans         3.5          1.7           .6         .3               4.1          2.0
Cotton        3.5          2.2          9.3        9.6              12.8         11.8
Sorghum       3.2          2.1           .4         .3               3.6          2.4
Sweet Potatoes .6          4.2          -           -                 .6          4.2
Tobacco        .3           .3           .1         .1                .4           .4
Sugar Cane     .1         10.9        17.1      1596.0              17.2      1606.9
Rice           -            -           1.3        4.5               1.3          4.5
Pineapples     -            -           1.1       13.9               1.1         13.9
Citrus         -            -           2.6       71.9               2.6         71.9
Other          -            -            -          -                 -            -
TOTAL      86.2        101.9        39.7      1706.6             125.9      1808.5
Source: Central Statistica Office
January 13, 1977



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swazi Nation Land:  Area and Production of Crops 1971/72 - 1973/74
Crop                          1971/72                           1972/73                            1973/74
Area         Quantity            Arca       Quantity              Area            Quantity
(ha)        produced (T)         (>a)       produced (T)          (ha)            produced (T)
Maize                   62 311        109 792            70 555        77 893             68 851           108 578
Groundnuts (nuts)        4 945          2 898             4 422        2 631               5 202             2 793
Cotton (Seed cotton)   3 933            2 523             3 493        2 239               1 671             1 071
Jugo beans               2 813          1 648             2 053        1 222               1 495             1 302
Sorghum                 2 566           2 504             3 235        2 142               2 716             2 330
Beans                    2 084          1 111             1 4,0           474              1 438               778
Sweet potatoes             926          6 864                569       4 217                  946            7 013
Tobacco                    308            228                319          236                 507              375
Sugar cane                 133          9 977                116      10 884                  119           14 000
Source: Central Statistical Office.
July 29, 1976
(D >
-4 



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Yields of Major Crops on Swazi Nation Land,
by Region - 1972/3 - 1973/4.
(kg/ha)
Country
Highveld           Middleveld          Lowveld          Lubombo         Swazi Nation        Freehold Title
Area                Land
1972/3   1973/4  11972/3   1973/4   1972/3  1973/4  1972/3  1973/4  1972/3  1973/4            1972/3    1973/4
Maize         1285     1720      1078     1640      929      1175    1374    2055    1104    1580           1413       1405
Groundnuts    491       400       530      590      642       490     550    1266      540      595          760        760
Beans         116       140       332      570      328       550     550      720     327      540          630        615
Jugo Beans   N.A.      1180      N.A.      660    N.A.        830    N.A.      550    N.A.      870           -          _
Sorghum       645       930       659      810      684      590      161       -      662      860         1069        972
Source:  'Annual Survey of Swazi Nationland', 1973-4,
Central Statistical Office.
July 29, 1976
HtTI



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Maize: Area Cultivated, Production, and Yield
Year of    -----               Area -------------          --------------- Production --------               Yield
Harvest
Swazi        Freehold         Total           Swazi           Freehold      Total             Yield
Nation Land    Title Land                      Nation Land       Title Land                    per hectare
i,000 Hlectares                                  1,000 Tons                        Tons
1974             96             5             101             122               8            130              1.30
1973             93             5              98             100               5            105              1.07
1972             90             7              97             102               8            110              1.16
1971             87             5              92              97               8            105              1.14
1970             84             4              88              81               4             85                .97
1969             81             4              85              76               4             80                .94
1968             78             4              82             101               4            105              1.28
1967             75             4              79              91               4             95              1.20
Source:  Maize Marketing in Swaziland, by D. R.
August 26, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 10
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seed Cotton Production, 1963/64 to 1973/74
(Tons)
Title                 Swazi
Deed                  Area
Total Intake of Ginneries        Farmers        %      Farmers      x      Total
1963/64 Season                   4096         85.0      722       15.0    4,818
1964/65   "                      5058         82.2     1099       17.8    6,157
1965/66   "                      6437         79.1     1702       20.9    8,139
1966/67   "                      9252         79.4     2398       20.6   11,650
1967/68   "                      6409         84.2     1201       15.8    7,610
1968/69   "                      5132         86.9      772       13.1    5,904
1969/70   "                      6305         86.8      960       13.2    7,265
1970/71   "                      8530         86.7     1304       13.3    9,834
1971/72   "                     10115         81.6     2282       18.4   12,397
1972/73                          9521         76.0     3013       24.0   12,534
1973/74   "                     11449         64.9     6195       35.1   17,644
1974/75   "                     11578         51.2    11040       48.8   22,618
The estimated value of the 1974/75 Seed Cotton Crop to Growers was E 4 998 642
Source: Swaziland Cotton Board.
July 28, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 11
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tobacco Production 1960/61 to 1974/75
(tons)
Year             Productivity               Productive        Total
Members of                Non-Members        Production
Tobacco Cooperative       of Cooperative
1960-61             252                        183              435
1961-62             108                         89              19,7
1962-63             162                        107              269
1963-64             114                         60              174
1964-65             11                          78              188
1965-66              52                         27               79
1966-67              45                         41               86
1967-68              20                         47               67
1968-69              24                         43               67
1969-70              21                         59               80
1970-71              35                         95              130
1971-72              27                        118              145
1972-73              35                        129              164
1973-74              53                        205              258
1974-75              34                        180              214
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 12
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vegetable Production
Year                               Crop  _
Potatoes                Tomatoes                    Other
Area       .Production    Area       Production      Area    Production
(Ha)        (Tons)        (Ha)         (Tons)        (Ha)       (Tons)
1969             171        2,071           16           84            76         796
1970             386        4,046           12           36            64         808
1971             556.       7,298           14           93           157         905
1972             490        5,128           39          494           102         708
Forecast 1975   750       ;10,000,         50        1,000           200       3,000
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
July 28, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 13
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swaziland Livestock Numbers (1971-1975)
('000)
---------------- Year--- ---- - -----
Livestock Category          1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
Cattle                       572     589      602      607     622
Goats                        262     252      265      249     263
Sheep                         43      37       38       30      35
Donkeys                       15       16      16       15       15
Horses                         2.2      1.9     2.0      1.8      1.9
Mules                          0.3      0.3     0.3      0.4      0.2
Pigs                          11       14      16       16      18
Fowls                        399     379      443      498     485
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.
August 6, 1976



ANNEX 1
Tablel4
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Census of Cattle 1948 - 1975
Year          Swazi Owned       European Owned       Euro-African       Totals
Owned
1975           526,164            85,722               9,835            621,721
1974           509,853            88,204               9,309            607,366
1973           499,340            86,536              16,538            602,414
1972           486,316            92,074              10,830            589,220
1971           468,150            92,319              11,316            571,785
1970           459,075            96,929              12,365            568,369
1969           437,567            90,319              10,334            538,22.0
1968           421,419            83,926               9,619            514,964
1967           410,084            85,081               9,358            504,523
1966           393,133            88,620               9,275            491,028
1965           4032860            96,631               9,594            510,085
1964           435,773            98,949              19,161            553,883
1963           416,717           104,721              10,102            531,540
1960           401,973           109,067              10,414            521,454
1959           388,688           104,921              10,306            503,915
1958           380,720            99,373              11,586            491,679
1957           355,659            98,351               9,009            463,019
1956           355,824            94,266               7,849           457,939
1955           333,631            88,862               8,852            431,345
1954           328,407            84,711               8,592            421,710
1953           326,985            85,566               8,111            420,662
1951           327,964            72,722               7,536           408,222
1950           334,252            76,961               6,416           417,629
1949           338,349            69,795               8,078            416,222
1948           338,405            72,949               7,198           418,552
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
July 29, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 15
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Herd Structure  - 1975
Non-Swazi
Swazi Owned          Owned         Total      %
Bulls                                18,074            2,372         20,446    3
Cows                                180,461           36,474        216,935   35
Oxen                                102,843            8,264        111,107   18
0 - 1 year Males                     31,387            8,590         39,977    7
0 - 1 year Females                   29,952            8,961         38,913    6
1 - 2 year Males                     31,837            8,111         39,948    6
1 - 2 year Females                   32,863            7,748         40,611    7
2 - 3 year Males                     44,936            6,943         51,879    8
2 - 3 year Females                   53,811            8,094         61,905   10
TOTAL          526,164           95557         621,721  100
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
August 6, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Fattening and "SISA" Breeding Ranches
Total Area     Development      Present      Total       Proposed Date   Carrying
(HA)          Status         Carrying    Livestock   for Complete    Capacity
Capacity    Currently   Development       at Full
on Ranch                     Development
1. Lavumisa   (Fattening)      20,243        Operating       3,500 L.U.    3,500          1978           12,000 L.U.
(Incl. Extension) Ranch
2. Impala  (Fattening)          9,995        Operating       2,500          2,400         1976            4,500
Ranch
3. Balegane (Fattening)         7,806       Development in  1,500             200         1979            4,500
Process
4. Mpofu (Fattening)l/          5,020       Development in    800             100         1980            2,000
Progress
5. Duma (Breeding)              5,870       Land Purchase   1,500             Nil         1979            3,000
Negotiations
in hand
6. Magomba (Breeding)           8,715             "          2,900            Nil         1980            4,000
7. Peebles (Breeding)2/         4,363             "          2,000            Nil         1980            4,000
Totals                    62,012                       14,700          6,200                        34,000
(D>
1/ This ranch is operated as a Co-operative and is not directly under Government control but will be available          i
to receive cattle from communal grazing lands.
2/ This ranch has considerable areas under irrigation which increase the possible stocking capacity.
August 10, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 17
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Origin and Disposition of Cattle at Fattening Ranches - 1975
Cattle           Previous Calves  Arrivals Arrivals  Export   Sold            Sold       Returned Taken       Deaths   Final
Ownership        Total    Born    on Hoof  by M.         to        locally   locally   hotie       to SMC               Total
Transport Durban   on scale  by                      for
owners               salughter
Swazi
Farmers               909       74     1190      838         44        972         79         119         16       41     1740
Tibiyo
Fund                  285        7      165       -          73         46         13          70         -         7      248
Title Deed
Impala      Farmers               110       17       545      -           15         -        174          15          1       12       455
Ranch
Swaziland
Government            103       12        82      -          -          -         -            14         62        3       118
Swaziland
Meat Co.              425       67       400      -           -          -         -            1        546       19       325
Total                1832     177      2382      838       132        1018      266           219        625      82      2886
Swazi
Farmers              1569      117     1642      670      1426           -      150           279         -        38     2105
Tibiyo
Fund                  312       33        11     120       168          -        -             30         -        11      267
Title Deed
lavumisa   Farmers               1060       50      1088       -       957           -        99          409         -        16       717
Ranch
Swaziland
Government             -        -        -        -         -           -        -             -          -        -        -
Swaziland
Meat Co.                1       -        369      -         -            -       -             -          44        2       324
Total               2947      200      3110      790      2551          -       249         718           44      67      3413
Source: Ministry of Agriculture.
August 10, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Holdings Reporting Cows and Milking Cows - 1974
No. of     No. of      No. of      No. of       No. of       Average
Region                holdings   holdings   cows per   cows in        cows in       lactation
reporting  milking    holding    milk per    milk as         period
cows as %  cows as %  reporting  holding        % to all    months
to all     to all                  reporting   cows
holdings   holdings
reporting
cows
Swaziland                   57.6         77.7        6.2        3,8         47.3          7
(All holdings)
Highveld                    56.9         65.5        5.6        3.1         35.5          6
Middleveld                   58.3         77.0       5.5        3.3         45.9          7
Lowveld                      62.4        95.0        7.7        5.0         62.2          8
Lubombo                     36.7         50.4        9.6        4.3         22.6          8
Source: Ministry of Agriculture
September 18, 1976
co



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Development Programs
1.        This Annex describes the principal projects and programs aimed at
promoting development of rural areas in Swaziland, as follows:
A.   Historical background of programs.
B.   The ODM Rural Development Areas Program.
C.   UNDP Agricultural Development Projects.
D.   Livestock Development Schemes.
E.   Projects for Development of Credit and Cooperatives.
F.   Land Development.
G.   Other Projects.
Appendix 1 lists the principal on-going and proposed projects related to
rural development.
A. Historical Background of Rural Development Programs
2.        The first significant attempt at promoting development in rural
areas in an integrated fashion in Swaziland was undertaken beginning in 1944,
by an autonomous body, the Native Land Settlement Board. Its principal aim
was to provide land for settlement of 27,000 Swazi people living on European-
owned farms. Two areas were set aside for settlement and development, one
in the northern part of the country, in the vicinity of Herefords, and
the other in the south, in the Hlatikulu District; 55,000 hectares of Crown
Land were released and U.K. grant funds were used to purchase an additional
93,000 hectares of expatriate-owned farm land. 1/ Legislation was then passed
to control grazing, stock numbers, crop rotations, soil conservation, and
rights of occupancy. However, in 1954, the Native Land Settlement Board
(NLSB) was merged with the Department of Land Utilization and this resulted
in a relaxation of controls and a general collapse of the scheme.
1/   For background on land tenure, See Annex 3.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        This program is now regarded as a complete failure.  The principal
problem was that development activities and plans were imposed from above,
by a colonial administration. The Swazi Land Settlement Act (1 February,
1946), gave broad powers to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture, and relied on enforced compliance with strict development rules,
with the ultimate sanction for the farmer expulsion from the settlement
scheme. Traditional leaders were not involved. Some settlement areas where
substantial investments were made are now included in Rural Development Areas;
the current level of development reportedly differs little from areas not
affected by the scheme.
4.        A second development program was initiated in 1965-66, shortly
before Independence. Known as a Rural Development Area Program, it was
designed from the start to involve the population, including farmers and
their chiefs, in planning and implementation of schemes. Eight areas,
averaging 4,800 hectares each, were initially chosen, namely Nkwene, Maduleni,
Sipocosini, Mpolonjeni, Mahlangatsha (Mambathweni), Bulandzeni, Bekinkosi and
Sitataweni. Greatest attention was given to improvement of roads, dams,
fences, and drainage systems. In addition, domestic water supplies were
improved, some grazing areas were fenced, and village centers were developed.
A grazing management system was established at Mpolenjeni which included
fencing and control of stock numbers.
5.        Unlike the NLSB schemes, the overriding emphasis in the 1965/6
rural development program was on infrastructure. Little attention was given
to increasing farmer incomes through improvement of dryland crop farming
techniques, and livestock management. Further, the UNICEF/OXFAM vegetable
and egg production program, which occupied most to the efforts of the exten-
sion service at that time, was not directly relevant to the needs of the
majority of farmers. Only at Mpolonjeni was an attempt made to establish a
grazing management system, including fencing and stock control; the principal
reason for the lack of attention to livestock management was the absence of an
animal production or livestock extension sevices. Also the 1965/6 Rural
Development Program lacked integration, and the individual areas were too
small to justify stationing professional management staff at the area centers.
Thus, the impact of the program was superficial and of a temporary nature, in
that developments lapsed when support was withdrawn, while even for infra-
stucture, no proper system for maintenance was left in place. Here too,
differences between areas included in and excluded from the development
program are now barely perceptible.
6.        In 1968, shortly before Independence, the U.K., in consultation with
the provisional Swaziland Government, appointed a commission to study the
land question as it related to economic and agricultural development of Swazi
farmers (Annex 3). The Hobbs Commission published its confidential report on
land distribution and utilization in 1969, and its recommendations formed the
basis for a U.K. land purchase program. Major considerations behind the
program were the alarming level of overgrazing on Swazi Nation Land and the



ANNEX 2
Page 3
need to rationalize land use, particularly in heavily populated areas.
Thus the aim of the program was to buy freehold title land adjacent to Swazi
Nation Land, and use it for resettlement and destocking. About t sterling 1.5
million in grant funds were made available for this purpose. To date, about
E 500-600,000 have been disbursed, and other purchases are the subject of
negotiations. Many problems have been encountered in utilizing purchase
areas in an appropriate and productive manner, and in identifying suitable
farms whose owners were willing to sell, but those appear close to resolution.
No purchase area has yet been settled, although some areas are being used
as breeding stations or as fattening ranches. A list of purchase areas and
their utilization is given in Table 1.
B. The Rural Development Areas Program (ODM Scheme)
7.        In 1970, a new Rural Development Area Program was initiated, sup-
ported by the U.K. Overseas Development Ministry (ODM). The scheme is now
underway and is being expanded. It provides the basis for the proposed
Project. The land purchase program provided part of the stimulus for the new
program, which utilized some elements of the 1966 program described above
(para 5). The scheme is perceived as a long-range program to promote agri-
cultural development in rural areas and to bring about improvements in the
living standards of the Swazi farmer. Development is organized in Rural
Development Areas (RDA's), which are coherent areas of Swazi Nation Land
selected, principally by the Ministry of Agriculture, for their agricultural
potential, the interest of the local population in development, ecological
homogeneity, and size of population (Annex 8, Part A).
8.        The ODM-financed project is concentrated in four RDA's. The principal
investments financed by ODM are:
(a)  Project management staff, including an RDA coordinator
in the Ministry of Agriculture and a Project Manager
responsible for development activities in each RDA.
Other staff at present are drawn from other sectors
of the Ministry of Agriculture and other concerned
industries as appropriate;
(b) Civil works, notably construction of project centers
with offices, depots for inputs, and housing for
key staff in each RDA, and
(c) Equipment and vehicles.
Other development progams have been closely affiliated with RDA activities,
with activities coordinated principally by RDA staff. Most significant are
land development and soil conservation activities, undertaken with USAID-
financed equipment, provision of inputs in conjunction with the Central



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Cooperative Union (CCU) with SDSB as banker, and livestock development in the
context of the FAO/UNDP livestock project (see below). In other words, the
project has provided key staff and a framework for planning and organizing
a range of key services in an intensive manner, in a few selected areas.
9.        Development in all four ODM-financed RDA's is well underway.
The crop extension effort in all four areas is concentrated specifically
on increased production of maize, cotton, tobacco, beans, vegetables and
rice. This is to be achieved through a more intensive and better supervised
extension service and by making inputs available to farmers. Livestock
extension is primarily aimed at increasing herd offtake and in setting up
management systems for the communal grazing areas. Other components, such as
construction of dipping tanks, road improvements, input supply and tractor
hire services, are implemented and co-ordinated in the field by professional
project management staff and associated extension officers. Important program
objectives are consolidation of land holdings, principally to facilitate
orderly development of crops and livestock, and soil conservation through
terracing. Social components, such as clinics and schools were not specifi-
cally included in the project proposals; however, the different Ministries
responsible have been involved in such developments where and when it has been
possible.
10.       The position of each area may be summarized as follows:
(a)  Northern RDA:  Located on the northwest frontier
of Swaziland, development was initiated here first
in 1971. The RDA covers 21,214 hectares (including
adjacent purchase areas), and has a population of
14,700. About 750 cattle owners hold 12,000
livestock units. Progress was rapid at first but
encountered problems in 1973 when the Central Rural
Development Board (CRDB) held up development in two
areas for some time. The response of farmers to
provision of inputs through cooperatives has been
particularly encouraging. Livestock development
has begun very slowly, but there has been some response
to efforts to encourage removal of cattle, at least
on a temporary basis, and perimeter fencing and paddock
fencing has begun. The principal obstacles have been
resistance by chiefs to irrigation schemes, fencing
and farm consolidation in part of the area, and delays
in financing due principally to lack of equipment and
high rates of breakdown. There are seven registered
cooperative societies with a total membership of 272 (end
1975). Works are generally behind target, notably for
financing and fencing, but nevertheless, progress is
steady despite delays and difficulties.
(b) Central RDA: Located just north of the Mbanane-Manzini
Road, the area is within the Mtilane Valley, and comprises



ANNEX 2
Page 5
five chiefdoms. Total area is 8,900 hectares plus
10,100 hectares now being purchased under the ODM Scheme.
Population is 8,200, and the area has 8,053 cattle plus
small stock. Development began in 1974. Principal
activities to date have been construction of the project
center, including a CCU input shed, road development,
fencing, and development of irrigation schemes. Livestock
development has not yet begun.
(c) Southern RDA: Located north of Nhlangano in Shiselweni
district, the area covers 8,906 hectares, with a popula-
tion of 4,080, and 4,170 livestock units. Development began
in 1974 and has focused on development of the Project center,
roads, and land consolidation, terracing, and irrigation develop-
ment. Delays have occurred particularly in the terracing
program, which has delayed land consolidation, and in
construction, principally because of transportation
problems. Livestock development activities have not yet
begun.
(d) Mahlangatsha RDA: Located in south western Swaziland in
the Highveld, the area covers 22,500 hectares, including
purchase areas, and has a population of about 5,000; there
are an estimated 6,000 livestock units. Development began
in 1974. The project center has been established, and
offices, a cooperative center, tractor pool, and workshops
are all functioning. Terracing and other land development
works have been delayed by equipment shortages.
Physical development targets and achievements for all RDA's are shown in
Table 2. Table 3 shows sales of inputs in RDA's in recent years.
11.       The experience in RDA's to date is encouraging.  In particular,
the response of the population and of most traditional leaders to changes
instituted under the program augur well for the future. Misunderstandings
with the CRDB appear to have been resolved, and the King and Chiefs reportedly
view the program with favor; during the appraisal mission's stay in Swaziland,
the Prime Minister, the Chairman of the CRDB, and the Secretary to the
Cabinet accompanied an ODM-mission on a visit to Mahlangatsha RDA and
reportedly reaffirmed the Government's full commitment to the concept and
design of the scheme. Neighboring chiefs are said to be anxious that
their areas be accorded RDA status in order to benefit from improved
infrastructure and services. Quantitative evaluation of progress is,
however, problematic. Data on changes in RDA farming patterns and gross
production since inception of the program is-not available. Increased
sales of inputs give some indication of progress, and extension workers
report marked increases in area under cash crops. A survey is now underway
to assemble information on the southern RDA, but more systematic statistical
surveys are also required.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
12.       The principal problems encountered by the RDA program to date
have been identified as follows:
(a) lack of continuing liaison on policy and implementation
between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central Rural
Development Board;
(b) slow progress in developing a crop marketing system
designed to serve the small farmer;
(c) lack of a clear and effective program to address the
livestock production/overstocking problem;
(d) slow development of rural institutions capable of
maintaining infrastructure, vehicles and tractors;
(e) Logistic problems, including poor maintenance of vehicles
and equipment by the Central Transport Organization (CTO)
and problems with equipment shortages and breakdowns by the
land development units;
(f) Staff shortages, at field extension worker and project
manager level; during appraisal only two out of four project
manager posts were filled.
13.       ODM and the Swazi Government intend to continue and expand the
ongoing program in four RDA's. These activities would be a separate project
from the project proposed for IBRD financing, but the two would be administered
jointly by a single unit within the Ministry of Agriculture. ODM has committed
h 3 million to the RDA program over the three year period 1977-79.
C.  UNDP Agricultural Development Projects
14.       FAO/UNDP have supported two ambitious and wide-reaching projects:
a crop development project, which provided technical assistance for a number
of specialists in different fields, and a livestock development project
aimed at developing an animal production service, through technical assistance
and some direct investment in a breeding program.  Both projects have been
seriously hindered by recent cutbacks in UNDP funding, and a number of key
staff have departed.
15.       Crop Development Project:  The project, initially approved for
1973-75, followed by an extension 1976-78, was to provide a project manager
and specialists in various crops, notably cotton, tobacco, horticulture and
grains and legumes.  The objective was to develop an effective nucleus of



ANNEX 2
Page 7
qualified specialists within the Ministry of Agriculture, to strengthen
and direct the overall extension effort. The project is closely affiliated
with technical assistance provided by other donors, notably ODM (soil testing,
grain storage) and the US Peace Corps. The major focus is on the small
farmer. Objectives were defined as follows:
(a) Development of extension services through training
and technical assistance.
(b) Farmer training, including demonstrations.
(c) Assistance to research, and in transmitting research
results to the farming community; and
(d) Assisting farmers in obtaining credit and in developing
market outlets.
The project has encountered serious problems. Most significant, recent UNDP
financial cutbacks have obliged UNDP to terminate all but two experts.
FurtherItwo Project Managers were obliged to depart, primarily for other
reasons. ODM has agreed to provide some of the key technical assistance posts
originally included in the project.
16.       Livestock Development Project:  The FAO-UNDP Livestock Development
Project was initiated in 1975; UNDP initially committed US$602,858, which
was subsequently increased by US$460,934. The project's objective is to
increase productivity of the national herd through development of extension
services, development of breeding stations designed to upgrade the national
herd, and improvement and expansion of fattening ranches to assist in de-
stocking Swazi Nation Land pastures. Assistance in marketing of cattle was
also included. Initially, five experts were provided: a project manager,
and specialists in beef production, dairy, range management, and livestock
extension. The project also included associate experts and volunteers. The
project was severely affected by recent UNDP cutbacks, and all four specialist
posts were dropped, although most will probably be filled through bilateral
assistance. The project manager works directly with the Department of Vete-
rinary Services of the Ministry of Agriculture and the head of the animal
production division is co-manager of the project. Thus, despite the effective
dismantling of the project per se, the basic program objectives continue
as the core of the Ministry's Livestock Development Program.
D. Other Livestock Projects
17.       ODM has provided assistance for development of fattening ranches,
breeding stations, and SISA ranches. Most are located on former freehold
title farms purchased under the ODM land purchase scheme. These livestock
installations are described in Annex 1; ODM Land purchases are summarized in
Annex 3.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
18.       Dairy Development:  The Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) has agreed to financing a dairy development project, including con-
struction of a new dairy plant, development of milk collection and cooling
facilities, and technical assistance. That cost is estimated at Canadian
$5 million.
19.       USAID has provided assistance for development of a breeding ranch
in the Highveld.
E. Credit and Cooperative Development
20.       The principal schemes for development of credit involve assistance
to the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank (SDSB). ODM and USAID assisted
in establishing the Bank; USAID has made a stand-by long term loan of US$750,000
for small farmer credit. USAID has also provided technical assistance to
SDSB.
21.       Several donor agencies are providing assistance for cooperative
development. ILO/SIDA have a US$1 million cooperative development scheme
including development of a cooperative training and development center
near Mbanane and technical assistance, with six experts. USAID has recently
approved a US$2.7 million loan for cooperative marketing development,
involving provision of 10 experts to CCU: ODM has agreed to provide a general
manager for CCU, in addition to a loan of E 500,000 for working capital.
F. Land Development
22.       USAID has assisted in developing the Land Development Section
(formely soil conservation unit of the Ministry of Agriclture) through pro-
vision of equipment, development of workshops, and technical assistance.
A new loan of about US$4 million and grant of about US$3 million are under
consideration to further expand and develop the section.
G. Other Projects and Schemes
23.       Other rural-oriented projects and schemes are briefly summarized
below and in Appendix 1; the intention is to indicate the range and type of
donor-financed activities underway and neither list purports to be complete.
(a) Fisheries Development: UNDP has provided a fisheries
expert to explore prospects for fish-pond development.
(b) Vuvulane scheme. Concurrently with the establishment
of the Mhlume sugar mill and the production of sugar



ANNEX 2
Page 9
cane for the mill, the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) in 1959 began a program of trials with Swazi
farmers growing irrigated crops of sugar cane, cotton,
maize, and vegetables in the northern Lowveld. As a result
of these trials three types of holdings were established
under the Vuvulane irrigated Farms Company (VIF):
10 farms of 41 hectares each for people of all races.
5 farms of 20 hectares each for Swazi farmers.
60 small holdings of 3-1/4 hectares each for Swazi farmers.
Since then, the 10 large farms have been reduced to three and are no longer
part of V.I.F., the five 20 hectare farms have flourished and with one excep-
tion the freehold farms have been sold to the Swazi farmers. There are now
over 200 small holdings of 3-1/4-6-1/2 hectares in size farmed by Swazi
farmers on 20 year leases; a total of 1,200 hectares of irrigated land are
involved. By 1978 at full development of this phase 1,625 hectares will be
under irrigation. The project has met with considerable agricultural success,
but has encountered politial and social problems.
(c) The Republic of China has supported two rice schemes in central
and northern Swaziland, which have met considerable agricul-
tural success;
(d) ODM is financing a grain storage project to improve farm storage
of maize and other grains by Swazi farmers; Danish assistance is
financing a seed multiplication scheme;
(e) Ingwavuma Basin Study: The African Development Bank is financing
a feasibility study for rural development, including irrigated
farming, in the Ingwavuma Basin. The feasibility study was in
progress during appraisal, and the consultants expect to prepare
indicative development plans before the end of 1976;
(f) Agricultural Training: FAO/SIDA are financing 14 experts to
staff the agricultural department at UBLS. ODM has financed farmer
training center development. SIDA is financing animal health
training.
(g) A training scheme to upgrade domestic science demonstrators
is underway; UNDP provided an expert (since departed) and
an associate expert; SIDA is assisting also.
(h) ODM is financing a full orthophoto-mapping program covering all
Rural Development Areas in Swaziland; these will provide the basis
for future land use planning.
(i) Status of Women: The UN has initiated a project aimed at improving
the status of women.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
(j) A third major sugar scheme is under consideration, which
would be Tibi Yo Fund financed and might include IFC participation.
(k) Forestry development schemes in the Highveld are under
consideration.
(1) A rural water supply scheme is being considered.
(m) ODM has financed equipment for a district road development
project.
(n) UNDP and USAID are supporting a rural literacy scheme
and primary school curriculum development. The UK is
assisting with farm surveys.
(o) Rural health schemes include ODM assistance for construction
of clinics, UNFPA for mother and child care and family planning,
and USAID assistance for a pilot bilharzia control scheme.
(p) Technical assistance is provided by many donors, including
the U.K., USAID, Peace Corps, UNDP and SIDA.
September 14, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ODM Land Purchase Scheme
List of Areas Purchased or under Negotiation
(i) RDA Resettlement:
St. Peregrene's Mission (Bulandzeni RDA)                    538 ha.
Bulandzeni Purchase Area (Bulandzeni RDA)                 3,366 ha.
Skombeni Id (Central RDA)                                10,000 ha.
Mahlangatsha l/(Mahlangatsha RDA)                        14,756 ha.
Bekinsel 1V  (Southern RDA)                                  567 ha.
(ii) Government Stations:
Highveld Breeding Ranch                                   4,167 ha.
Lowveld Breeding Ranch                                    2,484 ha.
Mpiva Quarantine Station                                     987 ha.
Ndunda Tea Estate                                         6,000 ha.
Balagane Fattening Ranch                                 11,585 ha.
Shiselweni Livestock Extension Center 1!                  1,844 ha.
Lavumisa Fattening Ranch Extension                        6,273 ha.
Duma Sisa Ranch 2!                                        5,904 ha.
68,462 ha.
1/ Small areas where purchase negotiations not complete.
2/ Project submitted, but not yet approved.
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Land Planning Section.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 2
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ODM Rural Development Areas Program
Physical Achievements and Project
Submission Targets for 1975
Northern RDA        Southern RDA         Central RDA    Mahlkngatsha RDA
Project    Achieve- Project    Achieve-Project  Achieve- Project    Achieve
Submission ment.    Submission ment.   Subrnbsion ment.   Submission ment.
Target               Target              Target              Target
Terracing      ha      970       5         810        162       815      283       n.a.      75
Fencing         km      39       41           46        19        39        5       n.a.      20
Roads           km      46        -           96         4        26       17       n.a.      20
Drifts                                         1         1         5        3                  -
Dars                     2        -            1         -         3        1
Dip'cni:s                2        1            1         -         2        1                  -
Irrigation     ha        -        6           -          4        20      10                   7.5
Irr. Canals    km        4.8    11.2          -          -         5.2     2.7
Weirs                     2       -            -         -         33       33
Wvater rupplies          -        -           -          -         3        3
Cattle Sale Yard         -        -           -          -         -        -       1         1
Buildings
RDA Shed                 -        1           -          1         1        1
Work Shops               -        -            1         1         1        1
Staff Houses             -        -            8         8         8       7
Junior Quarters          -        -            3         3         3       -
Offices                  -        -            1         1         1       1
n.a. = Not Available
Source: RDA Program Annual Report
September 18, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Development Areas
Sales of Inputs
1973                     1974                1975                 Total All    RDA's
FERTILIZER     Unit   North- South-Cen- Mahlan- North-South-Cen- Mahlan- North-South-Cen- Mahlan
ern    ern   tral gatsha ern   ern   tral gatsha ern   ern   tral gatsha 1973   1974   1975
Compounds      50 kg                             3236  1693        1724   1973  3524  2283 2529   n.a.   6653   10i309
Nitrogen       50 kg                       574   n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  162                        561    574    162        561
Super          50 kg                              188               225    676           84  586             413    1,346
Lime           Ton                                 20                21      21           36   28             41        85
SEED
Hybrid Maize   Kg                         3300   4600  3600        5300   3737   5100   30  9750  3300 13,500   18,617
Vegetable      E                                                     28                        137            28       137
CHEMICALS
General        E                                                    376                        872           376       872
Maize Storage  E                                                     39                        141            39       141
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note:  The above figures indicage sales made through
the C.C.U. and are not complete.  They do show
the increase in use of fertilizer and Hybrid
maize seed in particular.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT SCHEMES
Project 1/
Name of Scheme         Donor or Lending Agency  Time Frame 1/  Cost    Status
A. Past Programs
1. Native land Settlement   U.K. Government          1946 - 54        n.a.2/ completed
Scheme
2. Rural Development          U.K. Government        1965 - 69        n.a.   completed
Scheme
3. Land Purchase Scheme       ODM Grant              1971 - Present  1 1.5  continuing
B. Rural Development Schemes
4. Rural Development Areas  ODM                      1970 - 1976      n.a.   on-going
Program                   ODM                     1977 - 79        E 3    being prepared
5. Rural Development
Project                    IBRD Loan              1977- 81         n.a.   proposed
C. UNDP Agriculture
Projects
6. Crop Production Project  FAO/UNDP                 1973 - 76        n.a.   on-going
7. Livestock Development                                             US$1
Project                    FAO/UNDP               1975 - 77       million on-going
D. Livestock Projects
8. Breeding, Fattening,
SISA Ranches               ODM                   from 1972         n.a.   on-going
9. Dairy Development          CIDA                   1977-81         C$5      approved
million
10. Highveld Breeding
Ranch                      USAID                    n.a.           n.a.   on-going
1/   All figures are approximate.
2/   n.a. = not available.



ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
Proj ect
Name of Scheme            Donor or Lending Agency  Time Frame    Cost    Status
E. Credit and Cooperatives
11. Assistance to SDSB       USAID Loan                1973-2013    $750,000  Partially utilized
ODM                      na.           capital   ongoing
12. Cooperative Marketing   USAID                      1976-80       US$2.7    approved
million
13. Cooperative Training    ILO/SIDA                   1975-77       US$1.3    on-going
million
14. Technical Assistance    ODM                        1976--on       n.a.      approved
15. CCU Working Capital      ODM Loan                  1975 -on      E500,000  approved
F. Land Development
16. Land Development
Section                  USAID                     1974- 76      n.a.     on-going
17. Land Development Section
Equipment & Technical                                            US$7-10   under con-
Assistance               USAID                     1977 - 81   million   sideration
G. Other Projects
18. Fisheries Development   UNDP                       1975-77          n.a.   on-going
19. Vuvulane Scheme          CDC                       1959- Present   n.a.   on-going
20. Ingwavuma Basin Study   Af.D.B.                    1976 - 7    E 750,000  on-going
21. Agricultural Training   FAO/SIDA                   1975      E 1.2 million on-going
Animal Health Training        SIDA                  n.a.            n.a.   on-going
22. Rice Development Scheme Republic of China          n.a.             n.a.   on-going
23. Forestry Development   CDC-ODM                     future           n.a.    under con-
sideration
24. Agricultural Surveys    ODM                        n.a.             n.a.   on-going
25. Grain Storage Project   ODM                        n.a.        E 140,000   on-going



ANNEX 2
Appendix I
Page 3
Project
Name of Scheme          Donor or Lending Agency   Time Frame        Cost    Status
26. Seed Multiplication
Project                  DANIDA                    1976 - 78   E 230,000   on-going
27. Status of Women           UN                       1976 - 78       n.a.      on-going
28. Domestic Science                                      n.a.         n.a.      on-going
Training                  SIDA
29. Orthophoto Mapping        ODM                       1976 - 77   X 200,000  on-going
30. Rural Health:
Clinic construction       ODM                       long-term      n.a.     on-going
31. Rural Health:
Mother Child Care/
Family Planning           UNICEF                      n.a.         n.a.     on-going
32.  Bilharzia Control         USAID                     future         n.a.     under study
33.  Rural Water               Water and                                          under con-
Supply                    Sewerage Board            future         n.a.     sideration
34.  District Road Program    ODM                        long-term      n.a.      on-going
35.  Rural Literacy            Various donors
Training                  including IDA             long-term      n.a.     on-going
36.  Primary School            USAID                     long-term      n.a.      on-going
Curriculum                U.K.
Development
37.  Third Sugar Scheme        CDC                       future         n.a.     on-going
IFC
38. Technical Assistance:
ODM - about 200 staff
Peace Corps - about 150 volunteers
USAID - 24 staff
UNDP - 20-55 experts plus associate experts and volunteers
Other donor technical assistance and volunteers
September 17, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Sociological Background
A. Land Tenure
Classification of Land Tenure Systems.
1.        Two quite separate categories of land tenure are recognized in
Swaziland under Swazi Law:
(a) Swazi Nation Land; and
(b) Freehold Title Land (also designated Title Deed Land and
Individual Tenure Land).
This distinction has evolved since the colonial era in Swaziland. It results
from a series of events which designated part of the land area as subject
to modern land law, with full, European-style freehold title rights, and
with ownership predominantly non-Swazi (Freehold Title Land), while the
remaining land area remained within the traditional structure of customary
law, with land rights governed according to traditional patterns and authority
(Swazi Nation land). The significance of this distinction for current develop-
ment programs is substantial, both because of the economic gap that has
emerged between the modern, non-Swazi production on freehold title land,
contrasted with the persisting traditional way of life and production on Swazi
Nation Land, and because Government and law differ substantially for the two
types of land. It will be noted from the map that land of the two main
categories is scattered alternately throughout the country in all four eco-
logical zones.
2.        Classification of land tenure should also include land covered by
various different regimes, including urban land within gazetted townships,
which is effectively freehold title land, Tibiyo Fund land, which belongs to
the Swazi Nation but is often managed on a commercial basis, under the autho-
rity of the King and Swazi National Council, and Crown land and Lifa land
(purchased with proceeds of a levy of 10% of Swazi cattle by the King),
categories which still cover some land but which effectively are hangovers
from the colonial era. The King owns substantial land areas directly.
Further, the British Government has financed a scheme to purchase freehold
title land for the Swazi Nation; the legal status of this land is not yet
entirely clear, as some parcels may become indistinguishable from other com-
munally held Swazi Nation Land, while others may be designated as government
land.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        The land area of Swaziland is divided among the different land
tenure categories roughly as follows:
ha               %
Swazi Nation Land                       984,500           57
Of which:
Tibiyo Fund, King's
land, Government
stations, etc.             184,500           11
Land held or grazed by
Swazi farmers.             800,000           46
Freehold Title Land                     751,900           43
Of which:
Urban Land                   9,300             1
Freehold Title Farms
and Estates                742,600           42
Total Land Area                   1,736,400          100
4.        Areas defined now (before the Project) as Rural Development areas
(RDAs) cover-about 63,700 ha. or about 8% of land held or grazed by Swazi
farmers, or 6% of total Swazi Nation Land. Included in the totals for Swazi
Nation Land are an estimated 68,500 ha. purchased with ODM grant funds under
the ODM land purchase scheme; some purchases have not been yet formalized
(Annex 2, Table 1). These areas are to be used as Government stations,
fattening or SISA ranches, or extensions to RDA's, to be used for farming or
grazing by Swazi farmers.
5.        It should be noted that different statistics appear on division
of Swazi Nation Land and Freehold Title Land; the principal source of dis-
crepancy appears to be inclusion or exclusion of recently purchased areas
and the classification applied to government land.
Swazi Nation Land - General Description
6.        Swazi Nation Land is owned communally by the Swazi people, but is
vested in the King who holds it in trust for the nation; in fact, the King
holds the official title to all Swazi Nation Land. Holdings are allocated
to individuals by the traditional chiefs acting on behalf of the King and
under guidance of the Swazi National Council. Holdings are allocated for
farming plots and homesites; all other land is held communally rather than
individually, and may be used equally by all members of the community. It



ANNEX 3
Page 3
should be noted that the wide powers of the King and his chiefs are based
largely on control of land. This control over land gives the Swazi National
Council, (which advises the King particularly on land matters, and which is
the citadel of tradionalism in Swaziland) so much social and political power
that it could, before the King's dissolution of Parliament, even veto the
legislation passed by Parliament if that legislation had to do with land use
on Swazi Nation Land.
7.        The right to use land and other resources on Swazi Nation Land
is confined to members of the Swazi Nation. Other conditions are that the
individual must offer allegiance to the area Chief and that the Chief concerned
accepts that person as his subject. The majority of people settled in Swazi
Nation Land areas have in fact inherited their rights to the use of land and
other resources. These rights can be broadly classified as: rights to a
homestead site and arable lands, and rights to the use of communal resources
such as pasture land, water, woodland, etc. Thus, any Swazi settled on Swazi
Nation Land is subject to traditional authority; this is not the case for
Swazis who live on freehold title land or in urban areas.
8.        Once a residential site has been occupied and arable lands culti-
vated, the ownership rights of the homestead group are strengthened. The
area allocted, however, remains the property of the Nation and the user has
no right to sell the land. Ownership rights may be diminished through failure
to use the land and are dependent on continued membership of the community.
Any individual, whether a newcomer to a Chiefdom or an established inhabitant,
may acquire rights over arable land in any one of four different ways:
- By direct grant from the Chief.
- By direct grant from an individual within the Chiefdom (who
may grant the right to use land but not the right to settle).
- By loan from an individual within the Chiefdom (in which
case the land remains vested in the lender).
-  By inheritance (although in theory the family must make a
new request for the land).
Although no one can buy or sell land, while land is under crops the farmer's
exclusive rights to its use cannot be disturbed. In practice, individuals
are very seldom deprived of their land, but the lack of real security of
tenure is thought to have acted as a constraint to investment in land develop-
ment (fencing, planting trees) by the traditional community.
9.        Rights to the use of communal resources, such as pasture land,
woodland and water, are held communally and not exclusively. An individual is
not confined to any particular area - for example, all Swazis are theoreti-
cally permitted to use grazing land anywhere in the country; in practice, each
individual restricts his activities to areas accessible to the homestead.
After harvest, plowed land with standing crop residues reverts back to com-
munal use and the community grazes stock without hindrance. This has in the
past impeded fencing of arable land except around the homestead. Communal
ownership of grazing lands has contributed significantly to the present



ANNEX 3
Page 4
problem of overstocking in the rural areas - for the individual, grazing area
appears to be unlimited but for the group as a whole, the stocking rate is one
of the highest in the world. Further, as in other traditional systems where
pastures are communally owned, the individual's incentive to improve pasture
is limited since all would share equally in the benefits of his investment.
10.       Within the homestead group, the family head has the authority to
allocate his allotted area of arable land to various recognized sub-groups,
termed "houses". A house may consist of a wife and children in a polygamous
homestead, a married son or brother or various other kin groupings. Land
allocated to the various houses is retained and after death of the homestead
head each house will tend to establish a homestead of its own. This process
leads to arable land fragmentation - a problem which is likely to become more
serious in the future since the population growth rate is at present over 3%
a year, and since there is limited available arable land for expansion.
11.       In 1970, there were an estimated 38,800 individual holdings (arable
land and homesites), covering about 117,000 ha. This number has certainly
increased since then with population growth. The majority of individual
holdings (61%) range in sizes from 1 to 5 ha, while only about 12% are of
5 ha or greater. The country average for a family holding is about 3.0 ha;
holdings tend to be larger in the Lowveld (average 4.5 ha), where rainfall
is low, and smaller in the Highveld (average 2.1 ha). Tables 2 and 3 shows
the pattern of holdings of Swazi Nation Land.
12.       Administration of Swazi Nation Land.  Swaziland's dual system of
Government affects Government and particularly development projects located
on Swazi Nation Land. While the Ministry of Finance has primary responsibility
for designing and selecting development projects, the Swazi National Council
(SNC), through the Central Rural Development Board (CRDB), must finally decide
which projects are to be approved. Thus all projects and proposals must go
through two different types of approval prior to implementation. This problem
is compounded since the decision makers of the SNC require more time and
eaploy different criteria than the modern Government in making decisions.
Thus, there is generally a long time lag between the initiation and the
implementation of development projects. This duality of approvals also means
that replication of successful projects is not necessarily automatic since
each project is judged on by the SNC on its own merits. It is significant
that the system is democratic in the sense that, in theory, each interested
Swazi voice is heard prior to decision; in practice, however, the most important
voices are those of the aristocracy.
13.       Although the decision criteria of the SNC are not always known
to outsiders, the goal of the SNC has been stated many times by the King as
being the economic and human development of the Swazi Nation. The advantage
of the system is that it assures that each project approved has received the
full support of the Swazi people as well as the Swazi Government, and that, in
the view of traditional lenders, the proposed changes are within the bounds of
the absorptive capacity of the traditional Swazi culture. In practice, the
system makes it possibile for a local chief to halt or seriously hinder
a project if he feels it causes too much disruption in his area; it is there-
fore esssential that local chiefs be involved at an early stage in the plans
affecting their areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
14.       The King alone has the right to alienate Swazi land and allocate
it for development purposes, and he has done so in the past. He can decree
that certain practices are permissible and the old ones disallowed, and he can
(as he has done) give leadership to modernization. So far, he has tended to
use these powers cautiously and sparingly, but he has nevertheless expressed
his full and unequivocal support for the basic concept of rural development
programs now underway.
Freehold Title Land
15.       The origins of the current dual system of land tenure can be traced
the nineteenth century; Swazi rulers granted vast land concessions to foreigners,
often in exchange for very small sums of money or gifts. Some concessions
were purchased outright by concessionaires while others were held subject to
payment of an annual rental to the Swazi authorities. A commission was
appointed by the British Government in 1907 to investigate problems relating
to the concessions granted, since objections had been raised by the Swazis
The commission concluded that the vast majority had been granted in perpetuity
and recommended that in future they should be given the same status as a 99
1/3 year lease under the Roman-Dutch law of the Territory.   They also deter-
mined that about one half of the total land of Swaziland belonged to the Swazi
people and delineated those areas. The same Commission recommended that
holders of concessions which had been validated by the commission authorities
be permitted to convert these to freehold title on application. Subsequent
attempts by Swaziland to invalidate these actions were overruled by Great
Britain; most recently by the House of Lords in 1920.
16.       Most land concessions were converted to freehold title and con-
cessionaires retained the right to do this until 1973. An order in Council
in that year declared all land still held under original concession title
or lease was to remain so held "at the will and pleasure of the King on
such terms J he may determine". This has been interpreted to imply that
once the 99 1/3 year lease has expired, land will revert to ownership by
the Swazi Nation.
17.       The rights of a freeholder in Swaziland are similar to those in
European countries (in which modern Swazi Land Law is modelled). Until 1972
any individual (citizen or non-citizen) could buy and sell land free from
restriction. In 1972, a Land Control Act was instituted which stipulated that
any non-citizen wishing to purchase land must obtain permission from the Land
Control Board. If the applicant's proposals for using the land are deemed to
be in the interests of the country, permission may be granted provided that
these proposals are carried out. A non-citizen owning land in Swaziland
remains free to will land to his (or her) decendants, and citizens are still
-permitted to buy and sell freehold title land without restriction. One effect
of this action has been to reduce very substantially the market value of land
in Swaziland, which is said to be worth as little as one-tenth the value of
comparable land in South Africa.
18.       Freehold Title Land occupies about 752,000 ha or 43X of the total
land area of Swaziland. The land is scattered throughout the country in
about 790 separate holdings. This includes about 54,000 ha of crop land,



ANNEX 3
Page 6
99,000 of commercial forests, and about 554,000 of pasture land. The bal-
ance is mining concessions, unusable land, or urban land. An estimated
40% of all Freehold Title land is used for winter grazing for sheep from
tne Republic of South Africa. Crop land is divided over about 390 farms,
averaging 140 ha each. Table I illustrates the character of Freehold
Title Land holdings.
19.       An estimated 30% of freehold land is considered underutilized
and could be used readily by Swazi farmers. Some of this land is being
repurchased under a grant from the United Kingdom (Annex 2) for use as grazing
land and other purposes in selected development areas. The SNC has recently
stated that all freehold title land sales are now subject to the SNC approval.
This establishes an institutional framework which allows the repurchase of
the freehold title land but at a pace slow enough not to adversely affect the
commercial agricultural sector.
20.       In recent years, a problem has arisen affecting Freehold Title Land.
An estimated 15,000 Swazi households farm on Freehold Title Land, some as
tenant farmers or employees ("farm dwellers") others simply as "squatters"
when they have settled without the permission of the owner. A Board has been
established to deal with "farm dweller" disputes; it appears that the farm
dwellers do have recognized rights to continue farming unutilized land or at
least to some compensation.
Hobbs Commission Report
21.       Land tenure issues have been highly controversial for Swaziland,
given foreign ownership of almost half the land in the country. Rights to
land have been disputed throughout this century, and the Swazi Nation has
made efforts to obtain the return of the land to the Swazi Nation, often by
repurchasing it. An active concern has been to reclaim land without diminishing
its productivity, a problem since Swaziland depends very heavily on agricultural
production on freehold title land. In 1969, shortly after independence, a
commission including representatives selected by the British and Swazi Govern-
ments examined the issue of land tenure in Swaziland in an effort to resolve
the problem without raising the historical disputes. The Hobbs Commission
Report which resulted from this Commission's review, made recommendations on
land policy, notably in designing a project for UK-funding which would repur-
chase underutilized freehold title. The mission's terms of reference specified
that it was the Swazi Government policy that, in the main, only underdeveloped
land should be acquired, and that land questions should be examined in economic
(rather than political) terms. The committee recommended that about 3,900,000
hectares of freehold land, assumed to be underutilized, be purchased for
specific development purposes.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
B. Sociological Background
Population of Swaziland
22.       In 1966 (the most recent census), the population of Swaziland stood at
395,139, comprising 381,586 Africans, 9,157 "whites," and 4,395 other groups,
mostly "colored" and foreign Africans. The projected 1975 population was
471,500 people. The rural population clusters heavily on Swazi nation land,
with 260,554 people on 9,096.9 sq. km (1966). This was divided among the main
districts in the following rank order: Manzini, with 2,037.3 sq. km. had
72,064 people; Shiselweni with 73,388 people on 1,966.8 sq. km.; Hhohho with
61,825 people on 1,836.1 sq. km.; and Lubombo with 51,277 people on 3,256.2
sq. km. The European population on Swazi nation land is very small.
23.       On freehold title farms, Lubombo district had the largest popula-
tion in 1966 with 28,676 people on 2,683 sq. km. followed by Manzini with
19,957 people on 2,009.1 sq. km.; Shiselweni and Hhohho had 18,753 people on
1,794.1 sq. km. and 18,357 people on 1,688.1 sq. km. respectively.
24.       The most significant concentration of the urban population is in the
two towns of Mbabane and Manzini with 15,220 and 6,668 respectively (in 1966).
The total urban population in 1966 was 40,817 or 10.3% of the total population
of the country.
Social System
25.       Social Structure.  The social order of Swaziland is predominantly
traditional. Undergirding individual actions is the a traditionalism ensuring
that social actions are determined by what seems to be required by duty,
honor, personal loyalty and proper standards of right and wrong; this value-
orientation can act as a kind of social imperative. This social order derives
from the sacredness of tradition whose validity is reinforced socially and
psychologically by fears of the anger of the ancestral spirits which bring
with it magical evils if tradition has been transgressed.
26.       The living symbol of all Swazi traditions and of the unity of the
nation is the King (Ngwenyama) who has divine credentials of authority
which give unquestioned legitamacy to whatever he does or says. King Sobhuza
II has reigned as Paramount Chief and as king for over 50 years. The social
hierarchies which derive from this structure are first the King and the Queen
Mother, and the Royal household. Second in the social hierarchy are members
of the Aristocracy; after the royal household and the aristocracy come the
commoners.
27.       The basic units of social organization are families which are,
ideally, polygamous. For a marriage to take place, the groom's family must give
"lobolo" (bride wealth) to the bride's family. This is in the form of cattle
- normally eleven, unless the woman is of royal or aristocratic birth in which



ANNEX 3
Page 8
case the "lobolo" is much higher, depending on the social status of her
family. The social institution of "lobolo" gives cattle a very high social
value, for they decide the wife-getting abilities of a man and therefore the
founding of families. A number of related families form kinship groups.
These are descendents of one known founding ancestor, and are often four
generations in depth. Kin groups form extended families and are corporate in
character, that is, they hold property such as cattle and land in common;
groups share religious rituals because they have common ancestral spirits.
Kin groups also have a common titular leader who is the most senior man in the
extended family. They are exogamous, i.e., men from one kin group can only
marry women from another kin group. Several kin groups form clans, which are
families who believe themselves to be descended from a common mythical ances-
tor. Clans are dispersed and do not have a corporate character. The dif-
ferent clans form the Swazi nation, and all owe allegiance to the King.
28.       Traditional Political Authority.  The traditional political system
rests on the social structure described above. The King is the supreme ruler
and all the people owe fealty to him. He is the symbol of the unity of the
nation and is its religious leader. The King rules the land through chiefs,
who derive all authority from the King. The chiefs serve the function of
district administrative officers; no chief in Swaziland is an independent
potentate, as all are subject to the King.
29.       Social Change.  Despite the strength of traditional institutions and
authority in Swaziland, the pace of social change has quickened in recent
years. The growth of the modern farms and industries have had some effect on
neighboring Swazi farmers, as have the spread of Christianity and education.
Most Swazis remain outside the factory system or even outside the rapidly
growing towns of Manzini, Mbabane and other smaller towns, but new socio-
economic groups have been created by the mining industry in neighboring South
Africa, by the large sugar estates in Swaziland, and by growing industrial
development in the country. These groups depend mainly on earned incomes for
their livelihood although generally they still practice some agriculture,
particularly cattle keeping and subsistence farming. There is a growing
system of market agriculture which, in some rural areas, has replaced the
traditional system of local subsistence production. In the south, for example,
tobacco and cotton have become important cash crops. This growing trend
toward market agriculture, especially with respect to tobacco and cotton, is
due largely to new market opportunities. Similarly, a growing interest in
cash crop production of maize, vegetables, potatoes, and beans for the growing
number of urban consumers has stimulated new social and cultural developments
in the country.
30.       Market agriculture raises new problems for the social structure and
much more acutely for the traditional land tenure system. For example, the
concentration on cash crops which are not for consumption, e.g., tobacco and
cotton, enraged the rulers so that at one time there was an angry outcry from



ANNEX 3
Page 9
the highest political authorities in the land against non-food crops in the
south. This indignation was short-lived and the farmers were allowed to con-
tinue raising cotton and tobacco. The need for higher production of
high value crops like cotton, tobacco, and sugar raised questions of require-
ments for more land, and ultimately for improved methods of production which
are alien to Swazi agricultural technology.
31.       Another social problem is the challenge of market agriculture
to the traditional social hierarchy. Enterprising farmers are almost exclusi-
vely commoners and they become conspicuously wealthier than either their
immediate chiefs or neighboring aristocrats. This creates in the community a
new source of power, the rich farmer who is often more prestigeous than the
traditional leaders, and on whom the chiefs become dependent for resources,
thus distorting the traditional power structure. Traditions of village and
family unity and solidarity have been very much shaken by new developments in
Swaziland. Migration of the young to the Towns and to the South African mines
and cities gives rise to social alienation, for they tend to develop contemp-
tuous attitudes toward the traditional culture and traditional attitudes.
This is seen in the desertion of rural areas and a growing preference for
urban residence which frees them from the impositions of traditional authori-
ties and from the seemingly empty and largely unmonetized existence of the
rural areas. Material acquisition remains a less important goal for rural
farmers and this is seen particularly in their reluctance to sell their cattle
in spite of the good prices cattle can fetch in the market.
32.       The changes required by introduction of more modern agricultural
techniques are very substantial. New crops require constant vigilance and
new patterns of land use. For cattle, there is need for improved stock,
for improvement of pasture, proper range management and for destocking. All
these challenge traditional cultural practices and attitudes. Despite the
promise of increasing wealth, improvements on the whole have been slow on
Swazi Nation Land and traditionalism and lack of knowledge accounted for much
of lag and failure to take advantage of the new opportunities. Despite these
factors, the biggest handicap faced by farmers on Swazi Nation Land is that
major improvements in agriculture require some capital, and the small, typical
Swazi farmer has very limited monetary resources.
33.       The Role of Women.  The importance of women in agriculture and their
pivotal role in production have not received the attention they merit in
development programs in the past. This is due to the socio-cultural preju-
dices of Swazi society, which is predominantly male-oriented and male-dominated.
Yet women are the social dynamo of Swazi society; Swazi family life and
economy are difficult to imagine without the women in the leading roles, and
women do most work in farming. The neglect of the crucial role of women
ignores the fact that they are the most active workers in social programs like
rural health, nursing, adult literacy, in "save the children" organization,
and in training women in rural skills. Their importance in the rural areas
should be enchanced by the fact that they often have more formal education
than the men due to the use of young boys as herders while girls go to school.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Women also tend to have a higher social motivation as workers because for them
any improvement is an improvement of their children's lot. Further, few Swazi
women experience difficulties with alcoholism. To date, however, most agricul-
tural training and extension efforts focus on men, and domestic science
programs, primarily oriented to women, were not directed towards directly
productive and profitable activities. There has been some improvement in
recent years, but the potential contribution of Swazi women to rural develop-
ment has scarcely been touched up to now.
January 13, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development and Utilization of
Freehold Title Farms by Ecological Area
Region
Ha
Hithveld
Developed or new planted forests                            109,270
Partially to fully developed farms                           28,330
Under-developed land                                        159,161
Sub-total                                           296,761
Middelveld
Partially to fully developed farms                           89,030
Under-developed land                                         57,829
Sub-total                                           146,859
Lowveld
Northern Lowveld-Irrigation and ranching                     52,610
Big Bend                                                     20,230
Other Ranching and dry land cropping                         64,750
Under-developed                                             104,961
Sub-total                                           242,551
Lubombo
Partially to fully developed farms                           40,470
Under-developed                                              25,280
Sub-total                                            65,750
Total Swaziland
Partially to fully developed                                404,690
Under-developed                                             347,231
Total Freehold Title Land                           752,000
August 10, 1976



ANNEX 3
Table 2
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swazi Nation Land Holdings - Characteristics
Characteristic                   Highveld   Middleveld    Lowveld   Lubombo All Swazilanc
Number of Holdings                9,247      19,182          8,440    1,939    38,808 1/
Average Holding Size                  2.08        2.36           4.51      1.98       2.74
(hectares)
Holdings Selling some                20.5        21.3           38.1      25.6      25.0
produce (%)
Use of Fertilizers (%)               63.7        34.6            4.4      15.6      34.0
Use of Pesticides (%)                53.3        25.8            4.9      17.9      27.4
Use of Tractors for                  21.0        21.7            9.4      47.0      20.1
Ploughing (%)
Holdings  having cattle (k)          61.2        61.1           63.0      36.7      60.3
Cattle per holding (Number)         19.4         15.4           16.9      28.1      25.6
1/ As estimated 1,721 homesteads on Swazi Nation Land have neither land nor
livestock; thus total homesteads are estimated at 40,529, with 4.2% without
land.
Source: Agricultural Sample Census (Swazi Nation Land)
1971-72; Central Statistical Office.
September 18, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 3
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swazi Nation Land - Number and Area of Holdings
Highveld Middleveld Lowveld Lubombo Swaziland
All Holdings (number)                     9,247     19,182      8,440      1,939   38,807
(hectares)                 19,195     45,284    38,086       3,833  106,397
Holdings under 1 ha (number)              2,669      5,304      1,565        764   10,303
(hectares)           1,592       2,991        864        367    5,814
Holdings of 1 - 5 ha (number)             5,937     12,215      4,608      1,020   23,780
"hectares)          12,889      29,879    11,399       2,345   56,513
Holdings of 5 ha. and above (number)        640      1,663      2,266        155    4,725
(hectares)     4,713      12,413    25,822       1,121   44,070
Source:  Agricultural Sample Census (Swazi Nation Land ) K.-1971-72
Central Statistical Office.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing, Processing, and Prices of Crops and Livestock
A. Principal Crops
Maize
1.        The principal staple crop of Swaziland is maize.  Other staples
include beans, sorghum, and pumpkins. Maize is produced principally on Swazi
Nation Land, but about 11% of total production is produced on freehold title
farms. Maize is grown on about 75% of total cultivated Swazi Nation Land.
2.        Maize is grown by Swazi farmers principally for subsistence and
only a small proportion of maize harvested is sold outside the farm. The
quantity of maize marketed through commercial channels varies considerably:
when yields are low, only about 10% of the crop is marketed; in a good year,
as much as 25% may be marketed. Thus, 75-90% of total production is consumed
on the farm. Virtually all production on freehold title land is sold through
commercial channels. The rural areas are generally self-sufficient in maize;
however, not enough surplus is produced to feed the urban population.
3.        Swaziland farmers have two principal market outlets for maize:
small shops and hammer mills located throughout the rural areas, and a large
commercial mill (the Swaziland Milling Company) located at Manzini. Locally
grown maize can be sold without restriction or control by the farmer to any
buyer, at whatever price he can obtain. However, the Government fixes a
floor price for producer price levels (para. 10).
4.        The Swaziland Milling Company (SMC), established in 1958, is owned
50% by private interests (Hirsch Holding Co.) and 50% by the Swaziland govern-
ment (NIDC). Up to the present, the company has operated under an agreement
with the Government specifying that SMC has the exclusive right to import
maize into Swaziland, and to operate a commercial milling facility, and that
the company must purchase all maize offered to it at a Government fixed floor
price. This agreement is still in effect, on a year to year basis, but the
Government has made clear that it seeks to terminate SMC's monopoly over
grain imports.
5.        SMC is obligated to purchase all maize offered to it within Swaziland,
provided that it meets certain quality standards. These are: (a) maize must
be fit for human consumption; (b) it must be in a sound container; and (c)
moisture content must not exceed 12-1/2%. The fixed price is on the basis of



ANNEX 4
Page 2
a minimum eight bags 1/ collected on the farm by SMC; if a producer delivers
maize, he is reimbursed transport costs. SMC has two marketing depots,
in addition to retail outlets. Recently, the Central Cooperative Union (CCU)
has served as a collection agency, purchasing maize from farmers, and deliver-
ing it to SMC.
6.        Over the past seven years, SMC has purchased an average of about
3% of estimated total maize production. The amount purchased varies sub-
stantially with fluctuation in production; the maximum purchased was 10% in
one year, while in three out of seven years no locally produced maize was
purchased. Local hammer mill operators purchased significantly greater
quantities than SMC; in 1973, for example, local mills purchased about 8,000
tons, while SMC received 2,000 tons. Hammer mills reportedly pay substantially
higher prices than SMC; however, it is likely that much of the throughput
of the local mills is returned to farmers for consumption.
7.        Maize Imports.  Swaziland is a net importer of maize.  The quantity
imported to cover the deficit varies significantly with each harvest, but
ranges from 5 to 25% of total consumption requirements. Maize imports amount
to 2 to 3% of the value of total imports. Table 1 shows maize imports,
maize prices, and value of production and imports. SMC posseses the only
import license issued by the Government. SMC arranges for an allocation of
maize through the South African Maize Board, then orders direct from suppliers.
Small quantities of maize grain is imported and milled in Swaziland, but the
bulk of imports consist of maize meal. The Government is actively seeking to
attain self-sufficiency in maize production through a campaign to promote
maize production. A difficulty in the face of the import substitution policy
is the fact of lower maize prices in South Africa, the result of subsidies.
8.        Consumption:  Per capita maize consumption for the period 1967-74
averaged about 27 kg, which is relatively high compared with neighboring
countries. SMC distributes maize throughout Swaziland to retailers or to its
own retail outlets; the proportion of total consumption handled by SMC varied
from 11-25% for the period 1967-73, with average of 18%.
9.        Maize Prices:  Maize priced to the producer are fixed on an annual
basis. The official price is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture, which
relies for its decision on the recommendation of the Maize Advisory Board. The
Board includes the following members:
1/   1 bag = 90 kg.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman)
Representative of the Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives
Representative of the Ministry of Finance
Representative of the Ministry of Agriculture
Representative of the Chamber of Commerce
Representative of the Central Cooperative Union
Representative of the Swazi National Council
Representative of the Swazi Milling Company
Two Representatives of the Swaziland Agricultural Union
Representative of the Retail Outlets
Representative of large farmers
10.       Producer prices are fixed by the government; price levels are
established in relation to prices in the Republic of South Africa, and include
a subsidy to the farmer, introduced between 1970-72. Prices are fixed accord-
ing to a formula, which takes into account: (a) prices of imported maize,
and (b) SMC production and marketing costs; this is to compensate SMC for the
fact that maize from South Africa is cheaper than from Swaziland. If the
proportion of local maize actually purchased by SMC exceeds that used in the
formula estimate, SMC is reimbursed by the Government; conversely, if imports
are higher than expected, SMC is obliged to refund the Government accordingly.
Over the past few years, prices to producers in Swaziland have been 12-20%
higher than in the Republic of South Africa. Subsidies are funded through a
maize stabilization fund, controlled by the Maize Advisory Board. The price
at which Swaziland purchases maize from South Africa includes a subsidy by the
South African government designed to benefit South African consumers but
accorded to Swaziland also by bilateral agreement. Thus, SMC obtains maize for
the Republic of South Africa at prices are which significantly lower than it
actually pays to Swazi producers.
11.       Retail prices of maize meal to consumers are also controlled,
through the same process as producer prices.
12.       The price of maize for 1976 has been fixed at E 6.90/bag plus an
E .30 subsidy; this represents an increase of 14.5% over 1975. Retail prices
are fixed at E 8.42/bag, a 9% increase over 1975. This is equivalent to
E.08 /kg (US$.09) to producers and E .09/kg (US$.10) to consumers.
Other Traditional Food Crops
13.       Only small quantities of the food crops produced by Swazi farmers
are marketed through commercial channels. Swaziland Milling Company purchases
sorghum, groundnuts and beans, but in small quantities. SMC purchases and
packages between 40-100 tons of beans a year; about 900 tons are imported
from South Africa.   About 100 tons of sorghum are purchased a year; 3,500-
4,000 tons are imported from South Africa. Only insignificant amounts of
groundnuts are purchased by SMC. Most production by Swazi farmers is consumed
by farm families. Prices are established by market forces, and are not
controlled; however, prices are related to South Africa prices, where a
floor price scheme operates.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Cotton
14.       Virtually all cotton production from both Swazi Nation Land and
freehold title land is sold on the commercial market. Cotton is purchased
by four ginneries:
(a) Swaziland Cotona (Manzini)
(b) Cotona, Hectorspruit (Eastern Transvaal, South Africa)
(c) Barbeton Cotton (Eastern Transvaal, South Africa)
(d) J. L. Clark, Pongola (Northeast Natal, South Africa.)
15.       The Cotona cotton ginnery was established in 1965 at Matsapa (the
industrial estate near Manzini), and purchases seed cotton in competition
with the three nearby South African ginneries named above. The Cotona
ginnery presently purchases about 70% of total local production and 80% of
Swazi Nation land production. Up to 1973, cotton was purchased at several
collection depots in addition to the ginnery itself. Since 1974, however,
the ginnery has weighed, graded and purchased all cotton offered to the
company on its premises at Matsapa. Recently CCU has become involved in
cotton buying; they buy from farmers at local depots and transport bales
to Cotona's plant.
16.       All cotton lint and cotton seed derived from seed cotton production
in Swaziland is sold to manufacturers in South Africa. Prior to 1974, an
agreement existed whereby members of the South African Cotton Textile
Manufacturers Association undertook to purchase at seasonally set prices,
a minimum of 60,000 bales lint (of all grades) from all members of the South
African Customs Union 1/. In the range between 60,000 and 175,000 bales (50%
of total manufacturing requirements) the spinners were not obliged to purchase
the local crop, but if they did, they still had to buy at the established
prices. Annual Customs Union production before 1974 had normally been between
80 - 90,000 bales. In 1974, however, production increased to 300,000 bales,
and 19,000 bales remained unsold at the end of the season. As a result the
agreement with the spinners collapsed. At present, they have undertaken to
buy only Grade A lint at an agreed price. 2/
1/   South Africa, Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland.
2/   The manufacturers agreed to purchase all locally produced "saleable"
cotton (Grade A) at a fixed price up to the end of March 1976. It
is estimated that this will amount to about 75% of total Custom Union
production.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
17.       The price paid for seed cotton is directly related to lint prices
in South Africa, which are largely determined by world market prices. Prices
were as follows:
Year                 Seed Cotton             Lint
1975            E.20 - .25/kg            E 1.11/kg
1976            E.38/kg                  E 1.13/kg
Cotton prices are fixed in South Africa by a cotton committe including repre-
sentatives of South African producers, ginners and textile manufacturers
(spinners); Swaziland has an observer. The South African Government is able
to fix the price of inputs because it controls imports. In negotiation of
seasonal prices with the South African Government, spinners have argued that
they should have not to pay more for local cotton than the landed world market
price. Local prices have therefore been closely geared to world prices
(C.I.F. Liverpool) with an allowance for freight charges (12 c/kg for lint or
4 c /kg equivalent for seed cotton). Lint prices for the period 1970-1975 are
shown in Table 2. They are based on the world market price for cotton lint
averaged on the November/March Liverpool price index for dirk (strict middling
1-1/26h staple lint).
18.       A number of factors led to the lint price falling between 1974 and
1975. These included:
(a) The world depression in the textile industry;
(b) The large increase in production in Southern
Africa, from 84,000 bales in 1972 to 220,000
bales in 1975);
(c) Dumping of cheap textiles from overseas on the
South African market in mid-1974 forcing spinners
to cut back on production;
(d) Imports from Rhodesia into the South African
market, probably at discount prices.
However, a slow recovery is anticipated in demand and price in the medium term
because world cotton resources are fairly low, and a recovery in the world
economy is indicated, while some countries traditionally growing cotton on a
large scale are presently forced to convert sizable acreages from cotton to
food crops, due to their rapidly increasing population. For the 1975/76
season ginners have already announced a minimum final price of E.26/kg for
seed cotton. Swaziland supplies about 15-20% of total lint used by South
Africa spinners.
19.       In the past, marketing problems in Swaziland have deterred small
farmers from producing cotton. These included a lack of adequate marketing
facilities, inadequate transport, long waits at ginneries, and difficulties in



ANNEX 4
Page 6
obtaining payment promptly. Itinerant cotton buyers have emerged, largely as
a result, and have operated successfully. They work illegally, in defiance of
Cotton Buying Regulations introduced by the Ministry in 1974, with the main
object of protecting small growers; itinerant buyers tend to pay lower prices;
many are in fact large cotton growers themselves. The need to improve market-
ing is recognized, and the intervention of CCU is one indication that the
problem is on the way to being resolved.
Tobacco
20.       All tobacco produced in Swaziland is, by law, sold through the
Swaziland Tobacco Cooperative situated in Nglangano, in southwestern Swaziland.
The cooperative is controlled by freehold title farmers, and membership
is limited to farmers who produced over a substantial quantity of tobacco a
year. Members are entitled to discounts on inputs and to dividends. In
1974-75, tobacco was produced by about 250 growers, of which only about 34
were members of the Tobacco cooperative.
21.       Tobacco produced in Swaziland is principally low grade pipe and
chewing tobacco. Most is now grown in the south, although it can be produced
elsewhere. Farmers dry tobacco in barns, then grade it, tie it into hands,
bale it, and transport it to the cooperative headquarters. There it is
weighed and assessed in grades. Tobacco is stacked for two weeks for fermen-
tation, then finally graded.  Subsequently it goes through the proctor machine
which dries and humidifies the tobacco before final baling. Farmers are paid
for the crop in three separate payments.
22.       The Tobacco Cooperative sells tobacco to manufacturers in South
Africa; Swaziland's allocation is determined by the South Africa Tobacco
Board.  When a sufficient quantity is available, the South African Board
instructs the cooperative where tobacco should be delivered, thus allocating
quantities of each grade among South African manufacturers. A small proportion
of tobacco is sold locally.
23.       The Ministry of Agriculture is considering establishment of a second
buying center in the center of Swaziland. This would assist smallholders in
that region in marketing their crop.
24.       Prices are set by the Tobacco Cooperative at a meeting each March,
in reference to South African prices which are pre-set for each grade by the
Tobacco Industry Control Board. It appears that prices now paid by South
African buyers are fully in line with world market prices. In 1975, the price
paid for grade IV pipe tobacco (which most Swazi farmers marketed) was E1.2
per kg (US$1.40).
Rice
25.       Most rice produced in Swaziland is sold to the Republic of South
Africa; approximately 10% of the crop is retained for local sale to urban
retailers. In 1974 approximately 3,259 tons were exported and 350 tons
retained for internal consumption. Nearly all rice is milled locally.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
26.       Rice prices quoted in August, 1975 were as follows:  long grain
to Johannesburg 11.5 c/kg (unpolished), 15 c/kg (polished); short grain
(paddy) to Johannesburg, E 227.70/ton (net freight and commission). This is
equivalent to E 325/ton (polished). Approximately 10% of rice produced by
farmers under a Republic of China supported scheme is sold at roadside stalls
at a premium price. The rice sold is long-grain (polished) and the current
price average E 400/ton or E 20/50 kg bag.
Vegetables and Fruits
27.       Marketing is a principal difficulty in the way of increasing vege-
table production. An organized and efficient marketing system is essential
to transport perishable commodities to urban centers. Standardization of
grades is also required. Only a limited number of growers transport their
own produce to the main urban centers and it is evident that before any
continuity of supplies can be assured, the transport system will require
improvement and some center for wholesale marketing needs to be established.
28.       Production of vegetables in frost free areas during winter has
considerable export potential. Johannesburg, Pretoria, and Durban are large
urban markets accessible to Swaziland, and at present substantial quantities
of winter vegetables are sold at these outlets. For example, the forecast
potato production by the end of 1975 of 10,000 tons would require sales
in South Africa of approximately 5,000 tons; a part of this could be produced
in the Lowveld during the winter months.
Other Crops
29.       Other important crops produced in Swaziland are grown principally
on Freehold Title Land; most are destined for export to South Africa or
other markets. Tables 8-11 give data on agricultural exports and processing
of agricultural products.
Marketing of Inputs
30.       A subsidiary of SMC, Farm Chemicals, is the principal importer
of agricultural inputs for Swaziland. Farm Chemicals is 50% owned by the
South African Fertilizer Industry. Virtually all inputs are imported from
the Republic of South Africa, where prices are comparable to or below world
market prices. Farm Chemicals has an agreement with the Government to sell
fertilizer at prices that are lower than the South Africa wholesale price;
the margin is now roughly 2%. However, South Africa subsidizes fertilizer
retail prices for all South African farmers by about 6%. Consequently, actual
retail fertilizer prices in Swaziland are higher than those in South Africa,
and there is some unauthorized trade in fertilizers in the vicinity of the
borders. Farm Chemicals has recently established a bulk fertilizer bleeding
plant in Swaziland; the agreement with the Government on price levels will
continue; i.e., price will be fixed in relation to landed South African
prices. Prices in Swaziland come into effect when South African prices are
gazetted in January of each year. CCU has recently become involved in procure-
ment and distribution of agricultural inputs . Orders are placed following
meetings of an interministerial marketing and inputs committee; CCU places



ANNEX 4
Page 8
orders with Farm Chemicals which in turn orders supplies in bulk from South
African suppliers; the suppliers deliver direct to CCU depots and CCU then
handles sales to farmers.
B. Marketing and Processing of Livestock Products
Live Cattle Marketing
31.       An estimated 50,000 to 60,000 cattle are marketed annually by
Swaziland producers, representing a total marketed offtake of about 10%.
Producers sell live cattle through two principal outlets: (a) organized
auction sales in Government or private sales yards; and (b) private sales
to cattle buyers, normally at dip tanks. Most cattle are sold directly for
slaughter or export, but some are consigned to fattening ranches, whence
they are sold for slaughter. Table 3 summarizes data on livestock production.
Table 4 gives data on cattle marketing and slaughters.
32.       Cattle auctions have been organized for about 30 years.  The volume
of cattle handled has varied considerably. Initially, one third of all cattle
sold passed through auction yards, and in the 1960's about one fourth. In
1972, only 7% of marketed cattle were sold at auctions, while in 1975, about
7,000 animals were sold at auction. Auctions are held at Government sale
yards or at private yards. There are 10 Government yards, where auctions are
normally held once a month: 100 sales were held in 1975, and 4,107 cattle
were sold; in 1975, 2,852 cattle were sold at 14 private sale yards. Tradi-
tional producers seldom use sale yards, except for cattle consigned to fatten-
ing ranches, largely because of trekking distances involved; further, it
appears that farmers prefer to negotiate prices directly with buyers. Most
cattle sold at auction are, therefore, fat cattle from Government ranches.
The Swaziland Meat Corporation (para 36) by agreement with the Government,
guarantees a floor price for all cattle auctionned, and serves as a buyer of
last resort.
33.       Over 90% of marketed cattle, including virtually all those sold
by traditional producers, are sold by private agreements, normally at govern-
ment dip tanks. Farmers sell cattle here without restriction, with prices
negotiated between buyer and seller. Data about these sales are poor.
However, it appears that the principal buyers are local butchers and traders,
intermediaries purchasing cattle for export, further finishing, or simply for
resale, and buyers for the Swaziland Meat Corporation. Traditional producers
prefer to sell cattle at the dip tanks largely because it is convenient.
34.       Most cattle sold by traditional producers are over five years
old: farmers normally sell cattle only when they need cash, for school
fees, festivals, or other purposes. Consequently, offtake is relatively
low compared with what it could be, even with present production coeffic-
ients. The continuing presence on Swazi Nation Land pastures of animals



ANNEX 4
Page 9
which are not productive contributes substantially to the problem of over
stocking. The Government is seeking to encourage producers to sell cattle
through utilization of fattening and SISA ranches. Further, the agreement
with the Swaziland Meat Corporation to guarantee a floor price for cattle
forms part of the Government effort to encourage increasing sales by farmers.
Although intensive extension efforts in Rural Development Areas appear to be
resulting in increased cattle sales by producers, the national picture is less
favorable, and cattle sales in fact declined in 1975.
35.       Cattle Prices:  The weighted average sale price of cattle per
head at local sales between 1970 and 1974 was recorded as follow:
Year          Price
1970        E 60.26
1971        E 59.66
1972        E 75.00
1973        E 94.00
1974        E128.00
1976 prices for cattle averaged E 180-200 per head. The SMC floor price is
fixed at EO.40 per kilo liveweight; the estimated average weight at sale is
estimated at 170 kg. Prices in Swaziland are largely governed by price
movements in the Republic of South Africa, and by the world market position
for meat.
36.       Live Cattle Exports:  Approximately 12% of all cattle marketed
are exported on the hoof to the Republic of South Africa. Most go by rail
from Lavumisa/Gollel, in southeast Swaziland, to Durban. The South African
Meat Board fixes a quota for imports of Swazi Beef.  This quota was 175 head
of cattle a week in mid 1976. The quota is allocated among Swazi producers
by the Swaziland Meat Board. In practice, most cattle exported are those
produced by freehold title farmers. In 1975, 6,820 cattle were exported to
Durban and Johannesburg, a further 550 animals were sold to farmers in the
Republic of South Africa, and six animals were exported to Mozambique.
Average prices obtained for cattle in the Republic of South Africa do not
differ significantly from those in Swaziland; there tends, however, to be
a premium for quality at Durban, while prices for poor quality animals
tend to be higher in Swaziland. The Ministry of Agriculture is systematic-
ally collecting and analyzing price data, and hopes thus to advise producers
where the best price can be obtained at any given time.
Meat Processing
37.       Cattle are slaughtered at the export slaughterhouse operated by
the Swazi Meat Corporation in Matsapa and by local butchers located throughout



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Swaziland. The abattoir has a capacity of about 35,000 head a year; in
fact this figure is seldom attained. Table 5 gives data on plant through-
put. The Swaziland Meat Corporation has been obliged to import live animals
from the Republic of South Africa in order to keep plant operations at a
minimum economic level during the winter months. Swaziland imports in 1975
were about 8,000 head of cattle, of which 4,300 went directly to the Matsapa
abattoir for slaughter. The plant produces a full range of meat products.
Throughput in 1975 was the lowest recorded for the past 8 years, 16,880 head.
Local butchers slaughtered an estimated 36,000 head of cattle in 1975.
38.       Of meat produced by the Swaziland Meat Corporation, an estimated 10%
is consumed in Swaziland, while the remainder in exported. Per capita consump-
tion of beef is estimated at 18 kg a year. Meat products also are exported,
with the exception of bone meal, which is being consumed increasingly in
Swaziland itself. The United Kingdom is the principal market for Swazi
beef; other meat is exported to South Africa, and Zambia was formerly a buyer
of Swazi beef. Hides are exported to Iraq and South Africa, and carcass
meal to South Africa. Table 6 shows exports of beef, while Table 7 shows
exports of animal products.
39.       Swaziland has exprienced problems in marketing beef since the
EEC imposed import quotas and instituted levies on imported beef, because
the UK has traditionally purchased about 95% of Swazi meat exports. The
Government has now negotiated an agreement with EEC providing for a quota
of about 3,000 tons of meat a year; further, 90% of the levy imposed on
imported beef is under the agreement retained by the seller (the Swaziland
Meat Corporation), on the understanding that it would be paid to the Government.
The Government has agreed with the Swaziland Meat Corporation that in lieu of
payment of the levy, the Corporation will guarantee a floor price for cattle
purchases, and agree to buy all cattle offered to it.
40.       The Government is aware that new export markets should be explored,
to diversify exports and to safeguard against future difficulties with
imports to the EEC. The Annual Report of the Veterinary Service for 1975
emphasizes the need to establish a livestock or meat board to regularize
exports and supply of cattle for slaughter. A study of beef and meat marketing
within Swaziland and overseas would be useful. An agreement was recently
signed with Gabon to supply meat in future.
41.       Prices received for Swazi beef exports reflect closely world market
prices for beef; Table 11 shows value of beef exports.
Other Livestock
42.       Few other animals are marketed or slaughtered through commercial
channels; most are slaughtered and consumed on the farm or by local butchers
An estimated 15% of the total goat and sheep population is slaughtered each
year. Chickens are also widely consumed in both rural and urban areas.
None of these categories of livestock are exported, except in very small
quantities.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
Marketing and Processing of Dairy Products
43.       Only a small fraction of milk products consumed in Swaziland are
marketed and processed through commercial channels. The modern, largely
urban-centered dairy industry is focused on Swaziland's one milk plant,
located in Mbanane, which is now owned and managed by the Swaziland Dairy
Board. The total recorded supply of milk and milk products (including
imports) was valued at E 2.1 million in 1974-75, and was equivalent to about
14 million liters of milk. Of this, about 11 million liters were commercial
supplies and 3.0 million liters, World Food Program Aid. The total supply
constitutes only 28% of the FAO recommended average intake of dairy products.
44.       The Mbabane milk plant is supplied with fresh milk (a) collected
from Swaziland producers, mostly in the Lowveld, and (b) imported from the
Republic of South Africa. In 1975-76, about 1,000 liters a day were sup-
plied by local producers, and 4,000 liters a day imported. Local production
is concentrated in the summer months, November-May, leaving a large import
requirement for the rest of the year. About 11% was supplied by an estimated
20 freehold title farm producers; the remainder was provided by Swazi farmers.
45.       The Swaziland Dairy Board is improving collection facilities in
the Middleveld and Lowveld, providing collection depots, cooling centers, and
collection trucks. The Mbabane milk plant sold a total of 1,256,000 liters
of liquid milk in 1974-75. It was established in 1969 as a privately owned
milk pasteurizing plant, on leased premises. The company made considerable
losses, however, and in 1974 the Dairy Board purchased the plant. Average
daily sales of liquid milk and sour milk "emasi" increased from 3,000 liters
in May, 1974 to 6,300 liters in May, 1976. It is projected that, given
population growth,rising per capita income, and consumer preference for
liquid over powdered milk, demand will increase to 12,000 liters per day
by 1979-80.
46.       Milk prices are not controlled by the Dairy Board.  Prices are
high compared with Africa, although imported milk is "industrial milk",
often over-priced and of poor quality. Producer milk prices were fixed
at 67 cents per gallon; with premiums for quality the average price is 72
cents per gallon. Imports of dairy products to Swaziland were valued at E 1.9
million in 1974-75, representing 2.1% of total imports.
47.       The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has recently
agreed to finance a dairy development project. This would include con-
struction of a new plant and development of collection facilities. The
intention would be to supply all of Swaziland's milk demand, and to export
surpluses to South Africa, which is projected to face a shortage of milk
in the near future. The potential for dairy development in Swaziland is
good, given the favorable animal health situation, climate, and pasture.
Supplementary feeding will be required, however.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
C. Processing and Exports of Agricultural Products
48.       Swaziland has important processing industries based on agricultural
products, principally produced on freehold title land. Tables 8-11 summarize
agricultural products processing and exports.
September 14, 1976



ANNEX 4
SWAZILAND                               Table 1
RURAL DEVILOPMENT PROJECT
Maize - Production, Imports, Consumption, Value and Prices
1967 - 1974
---------------------------- Volume --------------------------   ------------- Value --------------
Year     Production      Imports         Total         Per Capita      Production      Imports      Total
Consumption      Consumption
('000 Tons)                         (kg)                   ('000 E)
1967         95             12           107               277            3,500          700        4,200
1968        105              6           1ll               279            4,ooo          350        4,350
1969         80             26           106               259            3,000        1,500        4,500
1970         85             25           110               261            3,500        1,500        5,000
1971        105             17           122               280            4,ooo       1,000         5,000
1972        110             15           125               278            4,500       1,000         5,500
1973        105             22           127               274            6,ooo        1,500        7,500
1974        117             20           137               287             -            -             -
Price Per 90 kg Bag
Year    South Africa.   Swaziland       Swaziland
differental
(E)
1972        3.41           3.42           +0.01
1973        4.10           3.90           -0.20
1974        4.50           4.50            0.0
1975        5.04           5.50           +o.46
Source: Maize Marketing in Swaziland and Ministry of Agriculture
September 28, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Lint Prices : South African Customs Union 1970-1975
GRADE            CLASSIFICATION                                         YEAR
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974        1975 (a)
--- ---------------(Cents/kg)---------------------
Deal             Good Middling                  48.26   51.04   60.28   63.21   113.21   85.19
Dirk             Strict Middling                47.08   49.85   59.75   62.02   112.02   84.00
Doly            Middling                        45.89   48.66   58.56   60.83   110.83   82.81
Duns             Strict Low Middling            44.96   47.74   57.64   59.90   109.91   81.88
L.F.Y.           Low Middling                   41.03   43.80   53.70   55.97   i05.97   77.94
B.S.G.           Below Standard Grade           --------------- by negotiation -----------------
Source:  Annual Report and Accounts, Swaziland Cotton Board, Dec. 1974                                       H 4
(a) Figures for 1975 obtained direct from Cotona Ginnery                                           m 4
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 3
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef Production, Exports, and Consumption
Beef       Beef      Beef  Consumption        Swaziland   Per Capita 1/
Year   Production   Exports   Carcasses   Quantity   Pop/                  ion
1000 -arcas5 equivalent --   (tons)   (1,000s)t          (kilos)
1964       50         15         35        5,950        353             17
1965       48         12         36        6,120        364             17
1966       59         22         37        6,290        375            17
1967       60         22         38        6,460        386             17
1968       56         17         39        6,630        398            17
1969       48          9         39        6,630        401            16
1970       53         10         43        7,310        422            17
1971       58         15         43        7,310        436            17
1972       63         16         47        7,990        449            18
1973       68         20         48        8,160        463            18
1/ Carcass weight estimated at 170 kg.
Source: Livestock Marketing in Swaziland, D. R. Bishop and Ministry of
Agriculture
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 4
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Slaughter of Cattle
('000 head of cattle)
Total                                            Total
Year        Marketed         Exports        Imports          Slaughtered
1964           63               14              1                 50
1965           51                3              -                 48
1966           64               11              6                 59
1967           60                7              7                 60
1968           55                3              4                 56
1969           52                5              1                 48
1970           56                3                                53
1971           59                5              4                 59
1972           60                6              9                 63
1973           55                6             19                 68
197h                            10
1975                             7
Source: Live Cattle Marketing in Swaziland, D. R. Bishop
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 5
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPME[T PROJECT
Cattle Slaughter - 1969-75
Number of Cattle             Other               Total
Year             Slaughtered             Butchers           Slaughtered
(abattoirs)
1969              17,936                  30,000              h7,936
1970              18,741                  3h,000              52,741
1971              23,542                  34.,000             57,542
1972              24,389                  39,000              63,389
1973              33,546                  34,000              67,546
1974              20,167                   n.a.                n.a.
1975              16,883                   n.a.                n.a.
1975 Slaughters at Swazi Meat Corporation Abattoir
- Origin of Animals
Number      %
Swazi farmers                    3050      18
SMC Ranches                      3717      22
European owned                   4688       28
Government Holding Grounds       1132        7
Imported from South Africa       4296      25
Source:  M.nistry of Agriculture, 1975 Annual Repart.
September 18, 1976



ANNA 4
Table 6
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef Exports - Countr9 of Destination
(tons)
Product                     Country of Destination
United Kingdom    Zambia    South Africa    Mozambique    Total
1971
Boneless beef      1,385            82            179             -         1,646
Bone-in beef         -             452            401             -            853
Offal                -             168             33             -            201
Canned beef          236            -              -              -            236
Total           1,621            702            613             -         2,936
1972
Boneless beef      2,155            83            146             -         2,384
Bone-in beef         -             153            113             -            266
Offal                -             132              8             -           110
Canned beef          211             -             -              -            211
Total            2,366           368            267             -         3,001
1973
Boneless beef      3,309            -              71             17        3,397
Bone-in beef          -              8             -               9            17
Offal                 -              8             43              6            57
Canned beef           70                           -              -             70
Total            3,379            16            114             32        3,541
1974
Boneless beef
Bone-in beef
Offal
Canned beef
Total
Source:  Livestock Marketing in Swaziland, D. R. Bishop.               September 18, 1976



ANNEX h
Table 7
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Animal Products
Hides (pieces)      35,106    31,041    30,169   25,210    56,613    25,h85   12,067
Skins (pieces)      25,299       736       559      539      2,068       358      -
Bonemeat (kg)           59   130,318   142,000   7h,545   226,181   182,000       -
Bloodmeat (kg)         -      21,691    34,863    2,727        -        -         -
Carcass meat (kg)      -    127,227    76,818   86,363    70,090   138,000   88,000
Horns (kg)             -      13,154   11,000   16,060       9,090      -         -
wool (kg)              -       1,440       338        45       -         222      -
Mohair (kg)             63       -         -         _         _        _         _
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture
September 18, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Exports of Agricultural Products 1971-74
1971                1972                 1973                 1974
Quantity   Value    Quality   Value    Quality   Value         Quality    Value
(tons)   (E'000)    (tons)  (E'000)    (tons)  (E'000)         (tons)   (E'000)
CROPS
Sugar               150,254   11,530   172,212   19,216   166,300   24,000   183,877           46,300
Citrus Fruit         53,216    4,338    58,146    7,216    48,500    6,580    45,824            4,518
Seed Cotton           3,415       521      3,693       623     3,700    1,100       2,815         340
Cotton Lint           2,100    1,027       3,134    1,649      3,100    2,800         920         413
Cotton Seed           3,958       152      5,819       211     5,800       350      1,895         333
Rice                  6,488       796      5,312       675     5,000       927      3,141         922
Canned Fruit            n/a    1,103         n/a    1,750        n/a    2,844         n/a       2,721
Molasses             44,700       402    49,190        566    54,000       800    55,206        1,813
Tobacco                 188       115        145        92       275       175      2,529         232
Total            J      n/a   19,984         n/a   31,998        n/a   39-576         n/a      57W AQ
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS
Live Animals            n/a    1,746         n/a       691       n/a       900      9,930       1,851
Meat                  3,045    1,777       2,794    1,963      2,500    2,300       2,180       2,668
Hides                   586       141        524       291        900      300        762         745
By-Products             n/a        78        n/a        99       n/a       100        n/a         917
Butter                   51        43         39        34         40       40          7.1          6.9
Total                   n/a    3,785         n/a    3,078        n/a    3,640         n/a       6,187.9
.._
FOREST PRODUCTS
Woodplulp               n/a    9,567         n/a   11,069        n/a   14,000         n/a      31,328.5
Total                   n/a    9,567         n/a   11,069        n/a   14,000         n/a      31,328.5
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture - Annual Report
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 9
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Raw Materials Used in Processing Agricultural Products
1970-1974
('000)
Industry & Commodity.   Unit    1970        1971      1972      1973         1974
Sugar Milling
Sugar Cane             m. ton  1,419.8  1,503.8   1,579.7   1,548.6    1,751.4
Cotton Ginning
Seed Cotton            m. ton       2.7       6.4        9.1      10.3         3.8
Fruit Canning
Pineapple              m. ton      11.2       8.4       12.7      16.2        18.7
Citrus                 m. ton       5.5       7.7       15.5      13.7        16.5
Youngberries           kg           3.9      10.0       13.0       17.0       79.0
Melons                 kg           -          -          -        18.0          -
Asparagus              kg           -          -          -          -          2.0
Meat Processing
Cattle                 Head        18.7        2        28.3       33.5        17.9
Dairy Industry
Butterfat              kg          50.0        -                   22.2       109.3
Wood Processing
Saw wood & Pulpwcod   cu.m.
(a) Conifer 2/        cu.m.      782.2    815.9      691.5 41 1,049.7   1,074.5
(b) Gums 3/           cu.M.        -                     -        S!.6       20;O
Poles & Posts          cu.Tm.       0.8       0.8        1.4 4/      3.5        2.5
Mine Timber (Round)   cu.m.        28.0      27.0       18.4 SJ    33.4        27.2
1/  Including imported raw materials.
2/  Volumes under bark.
3/ Saw-logs only.
4/ Year ending June.
5/ Year ending February.
Source: Annual Statistical Bulletin 1975.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 1u
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production of Processed Agricultural Products 1970 - 74
('000)
Commodity            Unit         1970   1971       1972         1973        1974
Sugar Milling
Sugar Manufacture     m ton   156.5      176.0    180.6         166.1       193.9
Molasses               m ton    40.2       44.8     52.9         50.9         57.4
Cotton Ginning
Cotton Lint           m ton      0.9        2.1      3.1          3.5         0.9
Cotton Seed           m ton      1.8        6.2      5.8          6.6         1.9
Meat Processing
Canned Meat            kg      392.9      355.5    355.0        231.2       860.4
Offal                  kg      730.1      564.2    727.9      1,657.0       809.9
Meat other than        kg    2,784.2   3,435.2  3,846.4       5,522.4     2,877.5
canned or offal 1/
1/ Including chilled, deboned and fresh carcasses.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX _
Table t 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Value, Volume andL Destination of Principal Domestic Agricultural Exports 1973-74
Item &                    Unit           1973                        1974
Destination                      Quantity      Value(E)      Quantity        Value(E)
Live Oattle
All to South Africa       Hed       6,281     766,282           9,871      1,850,668
Frozen Meat - Total       kg   3,586 734   2,961,218        1,253,922      1,547,262
South Africa              kg   3,586,784   2,961,218          256,679        310,423
Ua                        kg        -            -            256,243        340,803
Zambia                                                        741,000        896,042
Offal Total               kg   1,568 055      238,572          95,520         23,884
South Africa              kg   1,568,055      238,572          57,520         14,382
Zambia                    kg         -           -             38,000          9,502
Canned Meat Total         kg      214,759     197,489         831,022      1,097,087
South Africa              kg      214,759     197,489          54,000         63,485
UK                        kg         -            -            777,022     1,033,602
Blood,onAfCrircass Maat kg        920,372     118,372         505,000        161,407
Paddy Rice
All to South Africa       m ton    3,518      690,740            3,141       927,037
Citrus Fruit Total        m ton   55,752   3,947,061           45,824      4,516,673
UK                       mi ton    9,924   1,055,774            6,620        949,059
South Africa              m ton   26,731      863,790          14,680        249,209
Ot}ier (Benelux, Canada, m ton   19,097   2,027,497             24,524     3,318,405
France, Germany, Italy,
New Zealand, etc.)
Canned Fruit - Total        _         -     2,835,496              -       2,721,518
UK                          _         -     2,593,478              -       2,582,135
Other                                          242,018                       139,383
Sugar-Mainly Raw-Total  m ton  166,350  18,881,719            183,877    46,300,000
Canada                    m ton   40,227   4,885,795           28,671      5,221,000
UK                        m ton   86,705   9,484,000          105,957    19,899,000
US                        m ton   26,153   3,516,212           35,882    17,048,000
Other
Molasses - Total          m ton   46,165   1,236,241           55,206      1,813,C00
All overseas
Seed Cotton
All to South Africa       m ton    4,915       984,444           3,755       340,019
Cotton Lint
All to South Africa       a ton    2,587   1.607,820               920       413,000
Cotton Seed
All to South Africa      wi ton     4,664      209,880           1,895       338,000
Tobacco-Unmianufactured
All to South Africa       kg      159,215      131,704         252,920       232,015
Wood Products                              20,484,208                     36'254,718
Several Countries
TOTAL EXPORTS                              72,824,939                    119,618.959
NOTE:  1974 Value Exports of principal categories:  Z
Livestock Products       4
Sugar products          40
Cotton                   1
Fruit Canned & Fresh    6
Wood Products           30
Irgn Ore                1Q
Asbestos         
Other                    4
Source: Annual Statistical Bulletin,1975    Total           100
SeDtamber 18, 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutions Involved in Rural Development
Introduction
1.        The principal institutions of the Swaziland Government and of the
Swazi Nation which are directly involved in rural development programs are
described in this Annex, as follows:
A.   Government in Swaziland:  Historical and Political
Background.
B.   Central Government Institutions and Local Administration.
C.   The Swazi National Council and the Central Rural Develop-
ment Board.
D.   The Ministry of Agriculture.
E.   Financial and Agricultural Credit Institutions.
F.   Other Institutions in Rural Development.
G.   Coordination of Rural Development Programs.
2.        The institutional framework for policy and decision-making and
for program implementation in the field of rural development is particularly
complex in Swaziland. Three principal factor explain this complexity:
(a) The juxtaposition of traditional and modern authority which characterizes
government in Swaziland directly affects decision-making for rural develop-
ment. This is because rural development principally concerns Swazi Nation
Land, where the Swazi National Council exercises final authority in most
matters, but where the modern government has responsibility for initiating
and managing virtually all services and development programs. Consequently,
a dual decision-making process is involved at both the planning and execution
stage; (b) Since rural development can be defined as the full range of services
and programs aimed at assisting the rural population, the administration of
rural development plays a dominant role in central government policy and
decision-making. About 90% of Swaziland's population is rural and the develop-
ment of the rural sector holds the highest priority for the Swazi government.
Consequently, decisions on problems of rural development are often made at a
high level, are frequently brought up at Cabinet level and by the Swazi
National Council, and may have to be resolved by the King; and (c) a large



ANNEX 5
Page 2
number of institutions and agencies have responsibilities relating to rural
development. Coordination among these agencies has become increasingly
difficult, and the task is further complicated by the numerous donor programs
in support of many rural development activities.
A. Government in Swaziland: Historical and Political Background
3.        Swaziland has a long history of rule as a traditional monarchy
under the central authority of the King or Ngwenyama. From 1906 to 1968,
however, Swaziland came under colonial rule, and was administered as a British
Protectorate.   During this period, the King was reduced to the status of a
Paramount Chief who took orders from the British Resident Commissioner, and
State and social policy were in the hands of the British. Generally speaking,
the British administrators in Swaziland did not fully practice the celebrated
policy of indirect rule. A large number of Europeans settled in Swaziland,
criminal jurisdiction was withdrawn from the Swazi King, and it was expected
that Swaziland would eventually be incorporated into the Republic of South
Africa; as a result, a type of dual rule developed. The British administra-
tion set up a national Police force (1907) and contented themselves with
issuing proclamations and enforcing them directly. Although they often
consulted with the Swazi Paramount Chief, in effect the power of the tra-
ditional Swazi authorities was curtailed, and their responsibilities were
limited to the collection of taxes and to matters which pertained strictly
to the traditional sector, provided that tradition was not "repugnant to
natural justice."
4.        The most important result of the Colonial period, in terms of
the Swazi Social System, is that it introduced a dualism which took the
form of a two-legged pyramid in the social, cultural, political, religious,
intellectual, and economic parts of the social order, the two arms of which
are the traditional and modern. This continues to this day and the King
presides atop this pyramid. It also introduced, for the first time in Swazi-
land, a new form of legitimacy, that is, legal authority which rested on
the acceptance of the principles that legal norms may be established outside
of traditional authority, that the person in authority, the superior who may
be the King or British Administrator, is himself subject to an impersonal
order of law (in other words, the King's powers were limited by law), that the
persons who obey the authority to do so in their capacity as members of the
State, and their obedience is to the law and not the individual who represents
it, and that no personal loyalty is required to the man in authority; rather
there is loyalty to an impersonal country, a code or a flag - or even a set of
laws. This was a radical departure from Swazi norms and seriously undermined
traditional authorities; the beginnings of political unrest and political
agitation in Swaziland can be traced to this period; Swazi political "agita-
tors" questioned not only the Colonial presence in Swaziland, but also the
basis of legitimacy in Swazi society, including the right of the King and the
aristocracy to exercise absolute power.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        Swaziland achieved independence in 1968.  The Swazi nation accepted
a constitution drawn on the Westminster model. The monarchy was reinstated
and the King became Constitutional Head of State. Two houses of Parliament
were created, the members to be elected by the general population on the
principle of one man one vote. A two party system was institutionalized
with the majority party being the ruling party. The effect of this was
to legalize the opposition (a fundamental departure from Swazi tradition)
and to establish the right of commoners to a share in power and government.
Finally, a civil service was introduced, appointed by a civil service commis-
sion according to well established bureaucratic rules and standards. Tradi-
tional institutions were retained, however, alongside these "modern" instru-
ments of government; the principal of these is the Swazi National Council
(para 14).
6.        The Independence constitution established a popularly elected
Government in a country which had traditionally been ruled by the King and
the Aristocracy. An immediate result was that many people who previously
were commoners now assumed positions of power, influence, and wealth,
sole prerogatives of the King and the Aristocracy under the old order.
This posed particular problems since the new criterion for holding power was
education, which the King, the Chiefs, and the Aristocracy had previously
disdained. The legalization of the opposition was the most difficult issue for
the King, because opposition was seen as "umbango", or illegitimate contest
for power which rightfully belonged to the King and the Aristocracy. Trouble
soon arose, and in order to contain opposition, the King's party deported a
number of dissidents. In resulting court cases, the King's party lost, and
the King and the aristocracy felt that their powers had been subverted by the
Constitution and by the judges who found against them in court. This led
directly to the suspension of the Constitution and the takeover of the Govern-
ment by the King on April 16, 1973. In the preamble to the takeover procla-
mation, it is stated, inter alia, that:  "the Constitution has permitted the
importation into our country of highly undesirable practices alien to and
incompatible with the way of life of our society and designed to disrupt and
destroy our own peaceful and constructive and essentially democratic methods
of political activity; increasingly this element engenders hostility, bitter-
ness and unrest in our peaceful society." Suspension of the Constitution and
the King's takeover reflected an attempt by the traditionalists to contain
change.
7.        Since the suspension of the Constitution, the King has exercised
full authority over all aspects of Swazi government, in both the traditional
and modern institutions. A long promised new constitution has not appeared.
Decision-making can be more expeditious than under the Parliamentary



ANNEX 5
Page 4
system, with decisions taken by the King-in-Council (the King with the
Cabinet). However, the King's decision is often sought for matters of detail
as well as policy issues, which results in numerous delays in implementation
of programs, and for the failure of civil servants to deal effectively with
administrative problems from fear of displeasing the King. On the other hand,
the King's broad powers and generally enlightened approach to leadership offer
significant advantages, as the King can introduce changes which, under most
other circumstances would be unthinkable. The King, under the traditional
system, alone has the right to change tradition, and only he can sanction all
activities affecting Swazi Nation Land.
8.        The King has considered and approved ODM-financed rural development
projects in the past, although in some cases there have been delays in bring-
ing matters to his attention. Once the King's sanction is made known, however,
programs have advanced rapidly, and both chiefs and civil servants have
striven to carry out his will. During the appraisal mission for the proposed
Project, the King specifically considered the Project proposal, and the
mission was informed that he stated that it had his full support.
B. Central Government Institutions and Local Administration
9.        The modern Government comprises a Cabinet of Ministers appointed by
the King, and a civil service. The present Secretary to the Cabinet also
serves as Secretary to the Central Rural Development Board of the Swazi
National Council. Ministers and other permanent secretaries tend to be
political appointiees, with civil servants in other posts. The ministries
most directly concerned with rural development are the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives,
the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of
Power, Works and Communications is a key service agency with responsibility
for road development and maintenance, the Public Works Department which
constructs most government buildings, and the Central Transport.Organization,
a centralized government motor vehicle and equipment pool. The Ministry of
Local Government is responsible for local administration, while the Ministry
of Establishments and Training oversees all civil service matters and both
overseas and local training programs.
10.       Swaziland shares with many developing countries the problem of
serious manpower shortages, particularly at intermediate levels. At present,
expatriates fill many posts; for example, over 200 posts are supported by the
UK, while the US Peace Corps has over 150 volunteers in Swaziland, and many
other donor agencies provide technical assistants to fill established positions.
However, the government is starting to resolve the problem, and many Swazis
are now in training program that should enable them to fill most key government
posts within a few years.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Local Administration
11.       For purposes of territorial administration, Swaziland is divided
into four districts: Manzini, Hhohho, Shiselweni, and Lubombo. A district
commissioner is responsible for administration within each district; he
is supported by a senior distict officer for the sub-disrict, a part of
each district administered by a sub-office of the district (thus each district
has one sub-district). The Ministry of Local Administration is responsible
for all territorial administration, which is concerned principally with
maintenance of law and order and assistance to traditional authorities in
administrative and judicial matters. Most ministries of execution are repre-
sented at district level, and the heads of each office comprise the district
team, chaired by the District Commissioner; it normally meets once a month.
The role of the District Commissioner is that of a coordinator of all govern-
ment activities within his district; since basic planning and budget decisions
are made at a central level, his role is necessarily somewhat restricted.
12.       The District Commissioner administers a budget allocated by the
Ministry of Local Administration, which principally covers administrative
expenditures together with district road maintenance and other local respon-
sibilities. There are no local budget resources at present. The District
Commissioners administer some funds for local, self-help type projects. At
the initiative of the community, chiefs raised funds from their followers for
specific purposes, and the Government provides additional funds required and
technical assistance. The King has insisted unequivocally that such projects
must have local support, demonstrated in a fund for construction and mainte-
nance. Contributions may be in cash or in kind. The most popular projects
are spring protection, small irrigation schemes, school expansion, clinics,
bridges, markets, and sports grounds. The District Commissioners are actively
involved in the design, funding, and execution of such projects.
13.       There is at present no local government system within the "modern"
government, and no local elected or representative bodies. The principal
instruments of local government on Swazi National Land are the chiefs. Owing
in part to Swaziland's small size and tradition of a strong executive, adminis-
tration tends to be highly centralized, with virtually all administrative
and political matters referred for decision to the Central Government.
C. The Swazi National Council and the Central Rural
Development Board
14.       The Swazi National Council (SNC) is the supreme socio-political
body of the Swazi nation. It meets once a year, between July and August,
at Lobomba, the King's ritual and ceremonial capital (located several
kilometers east of Mbabane). It is analogous to a national parliament but
it is also the Swazi highest court of appeal. In theory, every adult male
Swazi can attend and participate in the deliberations of the SNC; in
practice, due largely to geographic factors, attendance tends to be limited



ANNEX 5
Page 6
to those with special functions, the aristocracy, and those who live near
Lobomba. The effective body which conducts day-to-day SNC business is
a small executive committee, composed mostly of members of the aristocracy
and headed by an executive secretary who keeps the minutes and records and
manages the offices of the SNC at Lobomba.
15.       The SNC is, in the Swazi dual structure of government, the tra-
ditional leg of the socio-political pyramid. It is charged with main-
taining and protecting Swazi law and custom and with examining, approving
and supervising all proposals which concern land use, and ensuring that
these are in keeping with customary law, rights and obligations. It can
thus be viewed as the citadel of Swazi traditionalism and conservatism.
16.       Tinkundlas:  The principal communications link between the Swazi
National Council and the rest of the country are the "Tinkundlas," which are
meeting places in the different rural areas throughout the country. Each
"Tinkundla" encompasses several chiefs and chiefdoms; there are 24 in
Swaziland. Meetings are convened at these "Tinkindla" whenever there are
matters of regional or national importance to be discussed. Such meetings
are presided over by a special King's appointee. Meetings at "tinkundla"
are attended by local adult males and their chiefs. A new trend in Swaziland
is to use the "tinkundla" as a focal point not only for socio-economic
organization but also for the organization of rural social services.
Thus, for example, the development plan indicates that the RDAs should be
centered around them. It is also planned that in future they will be
used increasingly as rural employment centers for rural youth.
17.       The Central Rural Development Board (CRDB):  Largely because of
disappointments and problems arising from pre-independence development schemes
for rural areas, the King as Ngwenyama of the Swazi Nation created by pro-
clamation in 1954, a Central Rural Development Board to oversee all future
programs affecting the rural population (Appendix 1). The principal functions
of the Board, as defined in the order, are to report to the Ngwenyama on the
condition of resources, including water, soil, grass and timber on land held
by the Nation, and on settlement schemes. The CRDB was to recommend steps to
be taken to protect resources and improve their utilization. The CRDB
approves all plans for resettlement schemes and agricutlural development
proposed by the local population, and oversees their implementation, including
enforcement of decisions taken. An explicit function of the CRDB is to
encourage the practical involvement of the local population in rural develop-
ment projects.
18.       CRDB members are appointed by the King and they are an effective
institutional link between the Agricultural Department and the King, the
Swazi National Council and the chiefs. The Board is responsible directly



ANNEX 5
Page 7
to the King. The CRDB in practice examines carefully and approves, often
with modifications, all detailed plans for development on Swazi Nation Land.
19.       Rural Development Officers:  The CRDB appoints Rural Development
Officers (RDO's), who act as its field officers. They work very closely
with extension officers staff of the Department of Agriculture. The RDO's
have clearly specified functions, namely, to hold meetings and discussions
with chiefs and other traditional leaders about the introduction and imple-
mentation of rural development projects. They act as facilitators and take
the political responsibilities from the extension officers, whose functions
then become strictly technical. The RDO's have acted to enforce CRDB deci-
sions in several instances; most notably, when the King decreed that grass
strips should be established on all arable land, it was the RDO's who enforced
the order, to the point of taking sanctions against recalcitrants. In those
cases where grazing controls have been introduced, the RDO's have assisted in
enforcing regulations. They have been effective, since most are trained
extension officers, who also have the full authority of the King behind them.
There are now eight RDO's; they are employees of the CRDB, but are paid from
the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture.
20.       The Tibiyo Fund:  A further branch of the Swazi Nation is the
Tibiyo fund. "Tibiyo" are minerals and "Tibiyo Fund" refers to a fund created
by the King and the SNC into which mineral royalties are paid by all com-
panies engaged in mining in Swaziland. The fund is not part of the Government
Treasury but is separate institution controlled by the SNC. The funds so
collected are used by the SNC to buy back Swazi land from private, expatriate
farmers; this land becomes part of Swazi Nation Land but has been set aside
for commercial development. There are thus two competing land-buying opera-
tions in the country: the ODM operation, financed by the British Government,
for rural development purposes and the "Tibiyo" Fund operations which also
buys land for the Swazi Nation but which, so far, has used most land for
commercial development. A small SNC committee, which reports to the King,
controls the Tibiyo Fund. A new manager of the Fund has recently been appoin-
ted; his task is to introduce effective management on the growing number of
Tibiyo Fund farms and thus to make them profitable enterprises.
D. The Ministry of Agriculture (Chart I)
Department of Agriculture
21.       The Director of Agriculture (formerly Chief Agricultural Officer-
CAO) is responsible for the following sections: extension and crop produc-
tion, the rural development area program, the land development section,
fisheries, forestry, and home economics.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
22.       The Agricultural Extension Service is organized on a district
basis, with a central crop production unit providing specialized assistance.
A deputy director, agriculture directs administrative aspects of the service,
while the crop specialists provided technical guidance. Each district has
a senior extension officer (SEO) who is responsible for supervision of
extension staff; they also handle political and social problems that arise
with chiefs. Under the SEO's are extension officers and assistant extension
officers (AEO's); AEO's have a diploma in agriculture, and it is the Govern-
ment's policy that eventually they will serve as the field extension staff.
At present, field officers (FO's), trained under the now-defunct certificate
program, are the principal field workers, despite steady attrition in their
numbers.
23.       The Crop Production Unit is based in Manzini; at present, its
role within the Ministry and linear relationships with other departments are
not entirely clear. The Unit was established as part of an FAO-UNDP funded
crop development project (Annex 2), and aims at developing specialized services
for crop promotion, and at upgrading extension services. The project was not
entirely effective, and the Unit has suffered from the abrupt withdrawal of
several technical assistants following UNDP's budget crisis in early 1976.
The Unit is headed by a "project manager" (the project's co-manager, a local
employee); it includes staff funded by UNDP, ODM, the Peace Corps, other
volunteers, and Ministry of Agriculture employees. The principal sections and
programs are as follows:
(a) Horticulture: The largest section, with six expatriate
officers; it has established fruit nurseries and has a
program to develop fruit and vegetable production, principally
under irrigation. Onions, potatoes and fruit trees are
emphasized.
(b) Irrigation: Oversees small-scale irrigation schemes (about
14), studies and develops new schemes, and assists farmers with
irrigated farming. The section includes one irrigation engineer
adn three Peace Corps workers;
(c) Tobacco: The tobacco agronomist, with a Swazi SEO as his
assistant, has five specialized extension staff and has launched
an ambitious scheme to expand tobacco cultivation;
(d) Cotton: The UNDP cotton agronomist departed, and the program is now
focused principally on cotton pest control. Some demonstration
plots have been established;
(e) Grain and Legumes: The agronomist has concentrated on iden-
tification and introduction of new species of hybrid maize; the
UNDP specialist recently departed and has been replaced by a
pineapple agronomist.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(f) Mechanization: A mechanization officer is responsible for
developing tractor pools;
(g) Grain Storage: The officer (ODM-funded) has developed a
small specialized extension staff and has launched an active
program to improve storage facilities and practices on
farms;
(h) Soil Testing: A soil testing and analysis service has been
established at the UBLS campus; current emphasis is on Ph
testing.
Thus, the Unit includes a wide range of specialists and services, some
of which tend to operate as independent units, others more directly in
support of district extension services. There is a need for clearer
definition of the unit's role, and for better coordination with other
Ministry activities.
24.       The Rural Development Area Program is a separate unit currently
headed by a senior agricultural officer (SAO) funded by the UK. The SAO
(RDA's) oversees all Department of Agriculture staff working in the four
on-going rural development areas, and has full responsibility for planning,
execution and coordination of development activities in thee areas. These
areas are for most intents and purposes outside the jurisdiction of SEO's
at district level, although they may intervene when political difficulties
arise.
25.       The Land Development Section established in 1972, has the largest
staff and budget of any unit of the Ministry. It is responsible for all
development works including soil conservation (the unit's original title),
terracing, construction of dams and waterways, bush clearing, fishpond develop-
ment, and feeder roads. The Unit is supported by USAID technical assistance
and a loan for equipment and workshop development. The Section has a staff of
almost 300 including 2 engineers, a transport and maintenance control officer,
and five qualified unit managers. The Section has five units based at differ-
ent locations in Swaziland, which carry out field operations; each is under a
unit manager. In principle, the Land Development Unit acts as a contractor
for all other departments of the Ministry for physical development activities.
Program and budget are established on an annual basis, with the Director of
Agriculture responsible for coordination of activities. The Section has
experienced problems with maintenance and broken down equipment.
26.       Fisheries:  A fisheries section was established in 1972, with
assistance from a UNDP-funded expert. A pilot program to provide rural
fish ponds for farm consumption and for sale has proved remarkably
effective. The service includes one FAO expert, two Peace Corps Volunteers,
and field assistants. A Swazi counterpart is being trained in the USA.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
27.       Forestry:  The Forestry Section is headed by a forestry officer;
a UNDP expert departed recently. The Section's objectives are to promote
afforestation on Swazi Nation Land, to oversee legislation on forestry,
and to look after protected flora. A village woodlot program aims at
providing sufficient structural timber and fuel. A further objective
is to rehabilitate wattle scrub, which has become virtually a weed. The
Section includes a forestry officer (a Peace Corps Volunteer) and five
assistants.
28.       Home Economics:  This Section aims at promoting home craft, home
improvement, and nutrition, and is directed to rural women. Gradually the
program has been extended to include more directly productive tasks such as
poultry keeping, dairying, and fish ponds. The staff includes 26 women, with
two technical assistants, most of whom have limited training. New staff
members, however, are diplomates from UBLS.
29.       Rural Youth:  A new unit within the Agriculture Department seeks
to promote awareness of agriculture among youth, in programs comparable to
and inspired by the American 4-H Club system. Staff includes two volunteers
and five local staff.
30.       The Agriculture Department also manages farmer training centers,
which come within the jurisdiction of SEO's of each district.
Department of Veterinary Services
31.       The Department has two principal divisions:  animal health and
animal production. The Animal Health Division includes 14 veterinarians,
three of them Swazis. They are responsible for headquarters work (3),
the veterinary laboratory (1), meat inspection at the Swazi Meat Corpora-
tion abattoir (1), training (1), and field work (8). There are about 180
middle and lower level staff employed by the division. Each district has
a district veterinary officer who oversees animal health inspectors and
veterinary assistants. The veterinary assistants are principally responsi-
ble for operation of government dip tanks, inspection of private dip tanks
and spray races, and for vaccination and other animal health programs.
32.       The Animal Production Division is of relatively recent origin
(established in 1967), and is very small compared with animal health
services. Animal production was neglected until recently, with programs
limited to an ineffective breeding program, sporadic efforts to destock,
and management of holding grounds, theoretically intended to relieve
pressure on Swazi Nation Land pastures, but in practice servicing principally
freeholder farmers and more progressive Swazis. At present, the division
includes only four posts at headquarters, which are concerned with organiza-
tion and operation of a livestock extension service, and with development
of fattening and SISA ranches, and breeding stations. The division's staff
relies heavily on an FAO livestock project (Annex 2) aims at building
up the division. The division oversees ranch and breeding station managers



ANNEX 5
Page 11
who run these facilities with considerable autonomy. Livestock extension
activities have to date been confined to rural development areas, with emphasis
on destocking and on introduction of rational herd management. The division
directs the national breeding program, aimed at upgrading the local Nguni
cattle; other activities include analysis of cattle and meat price data and
dissemination of this information to farmers. Dairy development is also
included within the division's responsibilities.
Land Planning Section
33.       The Land Planning Section is responsible directly to the Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry. Formerly a key section of the Ministry which took
the initiative for most rural development activities (rural development areas
and the land development section came under the section in the past), the
Section is now more specifically a service unit, albeit with an essential
role. The Land Planning Section has been principally responsible for defi-
nition and selection of rural development areas, establishment of priorities
among them, and for preparation of specific physical development plans. It is
these plans, specifing division of arable and grazing areas, location of
buildings, and siting of homesteads, which are reviewed by the chiefs and the
local population and must receive the approval of the CRDB. The section
includes a senior land planning officer, a land use planning officer, three
soil scientists, an irrigation engineer, and a technical officer for detailed
topographic studies.
Economics Section
34.       The Economics Section is responsible for project preparation and
monitoring and for overall planning for the Ministry; it also reports directly
to the Permanent Secretary. The Section includes a senior agricultural
economist, a livestock economist, an agricultural economist, and several
economists. The Section prepares project submission documents and the annual
capital budget of the Ministry.
Administration and Finance
35.       A centralized service for administration and finance reports
directly to the Permanent Secretary.
Coordination of Ministry Activities
36.       The principal vehicle for planning of Ministry activities is the
Projects Committee, which includes the heads of all departments and sections.
The Committee meets once a month to review all proposed and on-going projects,
and makes recommendations to the Permanent Secretary and to the Minister; no
project can be approved without the Committee's approval, and it examines any
proposal that involves deployment of funds. The Permanent Secretary can
overrule the Committee's decisions.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
Reorganization of the Ministry
37.       A reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture was under considera-
tion by the Permanent Secretary during appraisal. The principal proposals were:
(a) To transfer Animal Production to the Department of
Agriculture, and thus to promote a unified field extension
service covering both crops and livestock; this has
the full support of the Permanent Secretary.
(b) To bring all field staff in rural development areas under
the direct authority of the SAO RDA's, through the local RDA
project managers;
(c) To transfer the land planning and economics sections to
the Department of Agriculture; the Permanent Secretary
did not support this proposal.
This reorganization might require Cabinet approval if it required major
changes in ministry structure or creation of additional posts. The issue of
Ministry organization should be discussed during the loan negotiations to
clarify government's proposals.
E. Financial and Agricultural Credit Institutions
38.       The banking system consists of the Swaziland Development and Savings
Bank (SDSB), two commercial banks, and the newly created Monetary Authority.
The 1975 Financial Institutions Order lays down the general rules to be
followed by the banking system. The Order prescribes minimum capital require-
ments and liquidity requirements and empowers the Monetary Authority to
regulate the banks allocation of resources.
39.       The 1974 Monetary Authority of Swaziland Order provides for the
establishment of the Monetary Authority and regulates its activities. The
Monetary Authority issues Emalangeni (the Swazi currency) and promotes mone-
tary stability. The authorized capital of the Authority is E 1,000,000
(US$1,150,000). The Authority is managed by a Board of Directors consist-
ing of a Governor, a Deputy Governor and three Directors appointed by the
Minister of Finance. The King, in consultation with the Prime Minister,
appoints the Governor. The Authority is authorized to maintain external
reserves. The Authority serves as a Registrar of Financial Institutions;
it may open accounts with commercial banks to which it may offer discounts,
rediscounts and advances. The Authority may regulate interest rates on
loans and deposits, and reserve requirements on deposits held by financial
institutions. The Authority is the Government's fiscal agent in international
transactions and administers exchange controls.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
40.       Two commercial banks operate in Swaziland.  They have, in total,
nine branches and 21 agencies throughout the country. The two banks are
incorporated in Swaziland and they are jointly owned by British banks (60%)
and the Government of Swaziland (40%). The Swaziland Development and Savings
Bank (SDSB), formerly Swaziland Credit and Savings Bank (Annex 7), has an
authorized capital of E 5,000,000 (US$5,750,000) of which E 3,000,000 (US$3,
450,000) is paid in. The Government contributed a substantial amount of
SDSB's capital; grants from the UK and US provide the balance. Government
officials or appointees sit on SDSB's Board of Directors. SDSB has five
branches and three field offices, and a staff of over 100. The SDSB is the
principal institution in Swaziland responsible for providing agricultural
credit.
41.       Other financial institutions operating in Swaziland include the
Swaziland Royal Insurance Corporation, the National Provident Fund and some
savings and credit cooperatives. In 1974, the Government in cooperation
with foreign insurance companies organized the Swaziland Royal Insurance
Corporation; the Government's share is 51%. The Corporation has a monopoly
of insurance business in the country and much of its risk is reinsured abroad.
The National Provident Fund recently began operations and it provides social
security coverage to both Government employees and private sector employees.
The cooperatives are regulated by the Cooperative Societies Act of 1964.
F. Other Institutions
The Central Transport Organization
42.       In 1970, a Central Transport Organization (CTO) was established
within the Ministry of Works, Power and Communication. CTO is a centralized
vehicle, equipment and plant pool for all government agencies; it is responsi-
ble for procurement of vehicles and their eventual replacement and for main-
tenance. CTO also inspects and tests all passenger and commercial vehicles
registered in Swaziland. The Government has over 1,000 vehicles ranging
in size from two-door passenger cars to ten-ton trucks, and 180 pieces of
earthmoving and construction equipment. Vehicles average approximately
10,000 km per year. CTO headquarters are in Mbanane, with workshops in
Manzini, Nhlangano, Siteki, and Piggs Peak.
43.       CTO holds title to the vehicles and equipment pool and leases
individual items to each Ministry. Vehicles are leased on a short-term or
long-term basis. In either case, CTO charges the user ministry a consultatory
charge which currently is E 0. 88 per liter of gasoline consumed. The charge
for equipment is a daily rental plus fuel cost. Disagreement exists as to
whether a Ministry or CTO should retain title to a gifted vehicle.
44.       CTO has facilities for routine servicing of automobiles and some
maintenance and overhaul facilities are available for gas-powered engines up
to 2,5000 cc., diesel engines up to 3,000 cc. and standard transmissions.
These facilities are being upgraded with the additions of specialized equip-
ment such as dynamometers. Maintenance of heavy machinery and equipment is
the responsibility of the Ministries. Nearly all CTO users claim that CTO's



ANNEX 5
Page 14
service performance is unsatisfactory. Accurate estimates are not available,
but users claim that at any one time over 50% of vehicles are laid off. In
order to improve performance, CTO policy is to reduce the average age of the
vehicles to approximately two years and that of the equipment to approximately
3-1/2 years.
45.       CTO handles most government vehicle procurement.  Any item costing
over E1,000 must be purchased through the Tender Board; the Minister of
Finance may, however, authorize direct purchases of items costing over E1,000.
The Accountant General of Swaziland is chairman of the Tender Board. In the
past, a minimum of one year has elapsed between the time of tender warrant and
delivery. A substantial majority of the suppliers have been South African.
CTO's management believe that the procurement of spare parts has been the
biggest problem they have experienced. For this reason, they have requested
contractors as part of their supply offer to enter into a two-year contract to
supply spares and service, exchange units and carry out inspections and tests
as required by CTO. The reaction to this request has been mixed: some major
suppliers have refused to enter the agreement, others have accepted it.
46.       CTO has a staff of 300 including 80 mechanics:  some positions
are unfilled. CTO employs about 20 Swazis as mechanics; the others are
Portuguese or South African. In keeping with the program of upgrading the
existing staff of skilled vehicle and plant mechanics, in service training is
being organized and CTO recruits artisans from local training establishments.
47.       CTO has three principal departments, under a general transport
manager; mechanical engineering, personnel, and financial control. CTO has
not operated efficiently in the past. Delays in procurement of vehicles and
in maintenance or repairs are lengthy, and have posed serious problems for
ministries dependent on CTO services: for example, the 1975 Ministry of
Agriculture Annual Report indicates that trucks were out of service for over
six months, seriously detracting from the effectiveness of efforts to encourage
use of fattening ranches. Renewal policies have been ineffective in the past.
A team of Canadian consultants is now studying CTO organization and problems
and will propose a program to improve services. Efforts to strengthen CTO are
also being undertaken under the aegis of IBRD-financed highway projects in
Swaziland.
Public Works Department (PWD)
48.       The Public Works Department includes a Building Branch, responsible
for construction and maintenance of government buildings, and a Roads Branch.
The Building Branch includes a Principal Building Officer, two senior archi-
tects, four architects and assistants, three engineers, a quantity surveyor,
and clerks of works at five regional offices. Works in 1975 were valued at
E3 million, of which two thirds represented new construction and one third
maintenance. An annual program is established in consultation with the
Ministry of Finance. Private contractors undertake about 3/8 of all jobs.
The Roads Branch builds and maintains all gazetted roads. An ODM-financed
project is underway to develop a District Road network.



ANNEX 5
Page 15
Statistics Office
49.       Collection and analysis of agricultural statistics are the responsi-
bility of the Chief Statistical Officer, who heads a division responsible
to the Ministry of Finance. Agricultural statistics are based on an annual
census of Freehold Title Land farms, conducted by mail, and by an annualsample
survey of Swazi Nation Land agriculture; here, enumeration is conducted in
primary sampling areas, using crop cutting experiments. The Statistical
Office conducts this survey with a staff of one statistician, one statistical
officer, and 22 enumerators; local administrators and extension workers assist
with field work.
G. Coordination of Rural Development Programs
50.       The principal organ responsible for coordination of all rural
development programs is the Cabinet. A Rural Development Committee of the
Cabinet has been established to assist in coordination. It includes permanent
secretaries of key ministries responsible for rural programs, notably Agricul-
ture, Commerce and Cooperatives, Education, Public Health, and Finance. The
Committee meets quite frequently to consider specific project and policy
proposals and problems.
51.       Coordination of inter-ministerial programs affecting rural areas
is largely informal. The most effective vehicle for coordination appears to
be a Marketing and Inputs Committee, including representatives of the Ministries
of Agriculture and Commerce and Cooperatives, and SDSB and CCU. The committee
makes decisions on policies and specific programs for marketing of produce in
RDA's and on CCU orders of agricultural inputs. Participants have extolled
its effectiveness.
52.       The appraisal mission discussed at length the Government's views
on overall rural development strategy, including coordination of on-going
programs, and long-term objectives for development of institutions and infra-
structure. On both counts, more explicit definition of problems and objectives
is required, while coordination, handled to date on a rather informal basis,
could pose serious problems in future. The wide range of rural development
activities financed by numerous donor and lending agencies (Annex 2), would
clearly benefit from improved coordination at both policy and field implemen-
tation levels. Regarding long term objectives, some of the implications of
current policies for future development have not been thought through. For
instance, RDA's will soon cover about 60% of Swazi Nation land, yet their role
in territorial administration and as a focus for infrastructure development
have not been defined; policy for areas outside RDA's also should be clarified.
These problems are crucial because the proposed Project is part of a broad
program and cannot succeed in isolation. The Government is aware of these
problems. A continuing dialogue on overall objectives for rural development
and on coordination of rural sector programs should form part of IBRD's super-
vision of the Project.
September 15, 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Order by Ngwenyama in Libandla - Order No. 4 of 1954
Creating the Central Rural Development Board
The Ngwenyama, by virtue of Swazi Law and Custom and in
terms of section 9 of Proclamation No. 79 of 1950,
has been pleased to publish this Order providing for
the appointment of a Central Rural Development Board,
and setting out its functions and duties
1.        The Board appointed by the Ngwenyama, known as the Central Rural
Development Board, is hereby empowered to act in terms of this Order.
2.        The Chairman of the Board shall submit to the Ngwenyama a report
dealing with the condition of the resources, i.e., water, soil, grass and
timber, on land held by the Nation. The report shall cover among other
things -
(a)  method of settlement;
(b) present division of land into arable and grazing
areas; and
(c) present grazing control methods.
3.        The Board shall recommend to the Ngwenyama the steps to be taken
for the protection of these resources and for the improvement of grazing
control methods.
4.        Where the recommendations of the Board have been accepted by the
Ngwenyama, the Chairman with the approval of his Board may issue orders
providing for -
(a) the removal of kraals to selected sites;
(b) the division of land into arable and grazing
areas;
(c) the rotation of grazing;



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
(d) the burning of grass;
(e) the protection of particular catchment areas; and
(f) the removal of livestock to selected areas in the
territory.
5.        W4henever action has been taken in terms of paragraph 4 (f), it
shall be the duty of the Chief of the area concerned, to ensure that the
number of livestock in such area does not exceed the number permitted by the
Board.
6.        Any person contravening he provisions of this Order, or of the
Orders issued in terms of paragraph (4) hereof, shall be guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding t25 or to imprison-
ment with or without hard labour for a period not exceeding six months.
BY ORDER OF THE PARAMOUNT CHIEF OF SWAZILAND
17th November, 1954.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training and Manpower for Rural Development
Extension Officer Training
1.        The principal source of supply of trained agricultural extension
officers (for both crop and livestock production) is the Faculty of Agri-
cultural of the University of Botswana and Swaziland (UBS), which is based at
the Luyengo campus in Swaziland. In addition to providing courses towards a
B.Sc. degree, UBS also offers a diploma in agriculture after two years of
training. In the past, the Faculty offered a one year certificate course.
However, as a result of recommendations made by an Academic Planning Mission
in 1970, the certificate course was phased out and replaced by the two year
diploma course. This recommendation, which was endorsed by Government,
was based on the opinion that the certificate training was not of a suffici-
ently high standard to produce extension personnel capable of working effec-
tively in the field.
2.        Unfortunately the output of the diploma course has been constrained
by a lack of availability of suitably qualified people (Cambridge level pass).
The result is that at present Swaziland is suffering from a considerable
shortage of extension officers. The estimated 1976 shortfall is 45 agricul-
tural extension officers. Broad estimates of the required annual intake of
students over the next five years in accordance with the FAO/SIDA funded
project (strengthening the faculty of Agriculture) to expand the present
facilities at Luyengo is as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Botswana              Swaziland
Degree Program
General Agriculture                 10                   10-20
Diploma Program
General Agriculture                 10                   20-40
Animal Health & Management        6-10                    8-10
Rome Economics                    8-10                    8-10
Agricultural Education            8-10                   10-15
Sub-Total (diploma)              32-40                  46-75
Total (Degree and Diploma)       42-50                  56-95
3.        On the basis of the above figures, the projected output of
Swaziland diplomates is as follows:
UBS Projected Output of Swaziland Students
1976       1977       1978
General diploma                    13           9         20
Animal Health                       7           9         12
Home Economics                      7          13         12
B.Sc. (Gen. Agric.)                 2           6         12
Agric. Education                    -           9         10
4.        Although it is generally agreed that a diploma level of training
is desirable for extension officers, it is apparent that the present short-
fall (and any additional shortfalls resulting from the requirements of the
proposed Project) could be met by instituting a new certificate course.
Proposed New Certificate Level Training Course
Background
5.        There is at present a critical shortage of field officer staff in
the Ministry of Agriculture. This situation is compounded by the field



ANNEX 6
Page 3
officer requirements projected under the proposed expansion of the RDA
program. The following proposals were prepared jointly by the Ministry
of Agriculture and the University of Botswana and Swaziland with a view
to ensuring an adequate supply of field officers over the next 10 years.
Training Proposals
6.        The Government proposes that the diploma course be continued as
planned and that in addition a one-year certificate course be commenced in
March 1977. The certificate course will act both as a basic training for
field staff and as a preliminary qualification for proceeding to the ongoing
diploma course. The certificate graduates will be expected to work in field
for two years. They may then be recommended to sit the introductory course
for the diploma, upon successful completion of which they will undertake two
years diploma study.
Field Officer Supply and Demand Projection (Table 1)
7.        The following assumptions were made in Table 1 projections:
(a) 50% of the projected agriculture diploma level output will be
recruited outside the Ministry of Agriculture or used within
the Ministry of Agriculture for specialist or non field officer
posts. (The proportion coming into the Ministry of Agriculture
has been lower than this in the past.)
(b) A 10% annual loss of field officer staff will be experienced.
(c) 50% of the certificate course graduates will be accepted onto
the diploma course two years after they obtain their certi-
ficate.
(d) The facilities established for the certificate course will be
used for in-service training and other short courses when
space allows. It is assumed that 10% of the total field
officer staff will be in receipt of in-service training at
any one time.
The projections in Table 1 indicate that a field officer/in training facili-
ties will be required for 35-45 students per year over the next 10 years.
8.        The commencement of the course at the earliest possible date (March
1977) will mean that an outstanding shortfall of 7 staff remain in 1977/78.
It is possible that this shortfall could be met by volunteers or alternatively
be accepted and made up in the following year.
9.        EDF has agreed to provide financing for the course, in addition to
other in-service and farmer training activities, and has funds available for
the purpose.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
10. Outline of Proposals:
(a) Minimum Entry Qualifications
Minimum entry qualifications would be Junior Certificate, that
is 10 years formal schooling.
(b) Course Duration
The course would start at the end of April, with an introduc-
tory session at UBS. Students would spend one month as
counterparts of extension officers in RDA's or other government
projects. Course work at Luyengo would begin at the end of May
and continue for a full year. The course would occupy 44 weeks
over 5 semesters of 12, 8, 8, 8 and 8 weeks respectively.
(c) Course Content
The course would be based on the former certificate course
which occupied 60 weeks. Emphasis would be placed on
practical orientation and at least 60% of course would be
spent in practical periods.
(d) Staffing
The course would require extra senior and junior staff.
One senior staff would be required to take charge of the
course. He would be assisted by 3 diplomates whose chief
responsibility would be to set up and supervise the practical
classes. All staff would, if possible, be recruited from
within Swaziland. Suitable candidates for the senior staff
positions would be officers with the qualifications and ex-
perience of the present principals of the farmer training
centers. In the event that secondment from the Ministry of
Agriculture or elsewhere was not possible technical assistance
would be required. In either case the senior staff should be
in post by January to ensure that the course is adequately
prepared.
(e) Financial Implications
A certain amount of the existing facilities would be adequate
to cater for the new course. Notably hostel accommodation
should be sufficient since the shortfall resulting from the
withdrawal of Lesotho students can be utilized. Other faci-
lities are, however, lacking. Tentative cost estimates are
summarized below:



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Recurrent                          Per Year (E)
Staff - 1 senior                           10,000
3 junior                          15,000
Travel                                      6,500
Stationary                                  4,000
Bursary + pocket money                     40,000
Total Recurrent                      75,500
Investment cost estimates require further review.
January 13, 1977



SWAZ ILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pipld Officer Demand and Supply Projections
SUPPLY                             DEFICIT
DEMAND                      _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _
YER  TOTAL    INCRHASED POSTS      LO)S OF STAFF          TOTAL         DIPLOMA   CE:RTqF CATE/IN SERVICE TRAINING
YEAR  POSTS    RDA         OTHER   UPGRADING   LOSS @       REQUIREMENT  @ 50% OF  CERTIFICATE  IN SERVICE  TOTIL
CERTIFICATE 10% OF       OF F.O.       EXPECTED  OUTPUT         TRAINING     OUTPUT
TO DIPLOM. TOThL IN   RECRUITMENT  OUTPUT                       OUPUT        RSQUIRR-
POST                                               _M'NT
76/7   50                                                                                                                        7
77/8   56          6          _           _          5          11            4             _            _           _
78/9   86         20         10           _          6          43           2o            33                       33
78/80 126         25         15           -          7          47           t5            32            -          32
80/1  151         15         10          17         13          55                                       1 5  4C  6  40        ,
81/2  161          -         10          16         15          41           L5            26           16          42
82/3  L66          _          5          20         16         41            15            26           17          43
823166          -31  53
83/4  171          _          5          13         7           35           15            20           19          37
84/5  176          _          5          13         17          37           15            20                       38
85/6  181          _          5          10        18          33            15            18           18          36
86/7  186          _          5          10         18         33            15            18           19          37
Source: Swaziland Ministry of Agriculture
November 29, 1976                                                                                                                  Ila



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture Credit and Cooperatives
Introduction
1.        Agricultural credit to Swazi Nation Land farmers has been available
from private sources, the Swaziland Development and Savings Bank (SDSB), and
the Cooperatives System. SDSB is principally Government owned and it lends to
the large commercial farmers as well as business and industry. A small percen-
tage of SDSB's loan portfolio consists of small seasonal loans to Swazi
farmers. The Cooperative movement is receiving increased emphasis from the
Government of Swaziland as a more practical way to increase the direct involve-
ment of the Swazi farmer in the rural development process. The expansion of
rural credit on Swazi Nation Land will have to draw on the existing resources
of SDSB and the Cooperatives System. This annex describes the existing
agricultural credit structure and makes recommendations on how it might be
strengthened to serve the increasing financial needs of the farmers on Swazi
Nation Land.
A. Swaziland Development and Savings Bank
Background and Organization
2.        The Swaziland Development and Savings Bank (SDSB) was established
in 1965 under the name of "Swaziland Credit and Savings Bank", to help meet
the financial needs of the Swazis in agriculture, small industry, housing
and commerce. The authorized share capital was R 400,000 (US$460,000).
The U.K. Colonial Development and Welfare Fund and U.S.A.I.D. contributed
SDSB's initial capital. In addition, the U.K. Exchequer has made several
medium-term loans to SDSB. The Swazi Government helped repay the U.K. loans
and deposited some of its liquid resources with SDSB to fund its operations.
A December, 1973 King's Order in Council changed the name of the Swaziland
Credit and Savings Bank to Swaziland Development and Savings Bank, reaffirmed
that the institution's main purpose was the promotion of economic development,
and raised authorized capital to R5,000,000. At March 31st, 1975 paid-up
capital was E3,000,000 (US$3.5 million). The SDSB was thus initially establi-
shed principally as an agricultural credit institution, very much under the
arm of the Ministry of Agriculture. As the institution developed, it broad-
ened its activities to other sectors. Table 1 shows SDSB financial state-
ments.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        SDSB has a 13-member Board of Directors.  The Permanent Secretaries
of seven key ministries are ex-officio members; the Prime Minister appoints
one Director on recommendation of the Swazi National Executive; the Minister
of Finance appoints the remaining five Directors as well as the Chairman of
the Board. The Board appoints SDSB's General Manager, who is the Chief
Executive Officer. Whether or nor he is a member, the General Manager parti-
cipates in all Board meetings.
4.        The loan department and three support departments report to the
General Manager. The support departments are: Personnel, Branch Audit
and Financial Controls. The operations department is divided into an Agricul-
tural Loan Section and a Housing and Business Loan Section. SDSB has five
branches, located in Mbabane, Manzini, Nhlangano, Siteki and Pigg's Peak, and
three field offices in Mathanjeni, Mahlangatsha and Ntonjeni. Each branch
is staffed by a Manager, an Accountant, several tellers, loan clerks and
two to four Field Credit Officers. All branch managers are Swazis.
Credit Policies and Procedures
5.        The Agricultural Loan Section of the Loan Department handles all
agricultural loans. Interest rates are established by the Board of Directors.
SDSB charges an interest rate of 6% on seasonal loans ranging in size from E50
to E500. The maturity date of seasonal loans normally falls on September 30
of each year. On all other agricultural loans, SDSB charges the same interest
rate as on business loans, currently 10.5%. Housing loans bear interest at
7.5%. A 2% penalty rate applies to all loans in case of late payment. All
loans must be secured by hypotec or cession of hire-purchase contract.
Depending on quality, the collateral's value typically ranges from 150% to
200% of the loan proceeds to the borrower. Swazi Nation Land farmers cannot
pledge land as collateral on loans because they do not own it; cattle is the
only practical collateral for a large majority of Swazi Nation Land farmers.
Swazi farmers who own no cattle, reportedly about 30%, are therefore excluded
from credit at present.
6.        SDSB makes three to nine month cash advances against cattle entering
the Government fattening ranches. The amount financed is now set at 80% of
the value of cattle entering the ranch, and the interest rate charged is
10.5%. This was recently increased from 50% of the value of cattle. SDSB
makes seasonal loans to farmers and rural shopkeepers, five-year loans to
finance tractors and other farm equipment, ten year loans to finance forestry
operations, and cattle loans with maturities up to thirteen years; maturities
on land acquisition loans range between ten and fifteen years. SDSB often
finances up to 100% of the purchase price of land or equipment.
7.        Each Branch Manager has authority to approve loans up to E500
maturing in a year or less. The Agricultural Credit Supervisor, who is the
Senior Credit Officer in the Agricultural Loan Section, has credit authority
for loans up to E5,000. The General Manager approves loans up to E5,000, and
the Board of Directors approves loans in excess of E10,000.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
8.        The loan loss reserve is computed by doubling the five-year average
of actual write-offs. SDSB has no automatic write-off policy. Management's
;^ite-off recommendations are entirely subjective.  The Board of Directors
must approve any write-off in excess of E10.
9.        Small Seasonal Loans:  1/  In order to borrow any amount up to
E500 for farm inputs from SDSB, a Swazi farmer must be recommended by the
Field Extension Officer and by the Local Advisory Committee; 2/ his applica-
tion must then be approved by the Branch Manager. The prospective borrower's
initial contact may be established directly through the Field Extension
Officer, the SDSB Credit Advisor, a Farmers' Association, or a cooperative.
The credit decision is based on the borrower's previous record, the viability
of his farm plan, and the security offered as collateral. If the loan is
approved, the farmer receives a Purchase Authority which he can use to buy
inputs. This process is time-consuming and expensive, and the procedures are
cumbersome, including substantial paperwork and a wide range of individuals.
Long delays in the approval process are due to the non-availability of field
extension staff and the inefficiency of the Local Advisory Committees, which
must meet on each application, although they seldom know the applicants.
Meetings are infrequent, irregular and incompletely attended. SDSB's manage-
ment recommends that the Local Advisory Committees be replaced in their credit
advisory functions by the Tinkundlas, which are groups of four to seven chiefs
who meet periodically to discuss various comimunity matters (Annex 5).
10.       SDSB's management has further recommended two proposals to stream-
line credit procedures and increase small farmers' credit usage: the estab-
lishment of lines of credit, and support of the Government's policy of promo-
ting indirect lending through cooperatives. The line of credit would be
available to farmers with a satisfactory past credit record, and would normally
be based on multiples of E50 per acre, per head of cattle. The farmer would
be encouraged to estimate his total requirements for the season, which would
be the limit up to which he could draw, if the facility were approved. Within
the approved limit, the borrower would be able to draw down, repay, and redraw
for a second crop. Every crop year, he would submit a farm plan. The Local
Advisory Committee's approval would be needed only at the time of establishment
1/   The Small Farmer Credit Scheme is supported by a loan of US$750,000
approved in May, 1974 by USAID. This loan is intended for small scale
loans and carries interest at 2-1/2% to 3%, for 40 years, with 10 years
grace. Less than one third of these funds had been disbursed through
the 1975-76 season.
2/   The Local Advisory Committee comprises the District Commissioner,
Senior Extension Officer, senior cooperative officer, and two private
farmers.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
of the line of credit. Each line of credit would have a review date to
coincide with the crop being financed, and the renewal of the facility would
be conditional upon full paydown on the line of credit. Management's aim
would be to process credit line renewals within one working day. Management's
second proposal is that SDSB work to support Government efforts to develop an
indirect lending program which would utilize the cooperatives network. Under
this program, primary societies' cooperative committees would approve credit
sales, assisted by an SDSB credit adviser. The individual loans would then be
bulked by CCU which would warehouse them and fund them at SDSB; CCU would
charge the farmer 6% interest, pay SDSB 5%, assume the credit risk, and handle
most of the paper work. Some steps have already been taken to promote use of
Cooperative for small agricultural loans.
The Loan Portfolio
11.       At fiscal year end, March 31, 1975, SDSB's secured loans outstanding
net of loan loss reserve were E8,808,000 (US$10.1 million), a 28% increase
over fiscal 1974. Undisbursed commitments at March 31, 1975 were E880,000.
The loan loss reserves was E241,000 (US$277,000) or 2.74% of the oustanding
loan portfolio. E3,250,000 (US$3,736,000) or 37% of total loans was to
the agricultural sector, 30% to the business sector, 23% to finance housing
and the remaining 10% for various other purposes. Of approximately E3,000,000
(US$3.4 million) agricultural loans outstanding at March 31, 1976, about
E2,000,000 or 68% consisted of loans to the commercial sector to finance
farm purchases, forestry operations, cattle breeding, and seasonal loans
over E500. Approximately E600,000 or 20% of total agricultural loans consisted
of mechanization loans. The remaining 12%, E360,000 (US$414,000) was about
equally divided between cattle advances and seasonal loans under E500 to Swazi
farmers. The large loans are principally to expatriates, with a growing
minority of land acquisition loans to wealthier urban Swazis. Table 2 gives
further detail on the loan portfolio.
12.       SDSB has been financing tractor purchases by expatriate farmers
and wealthier Swazi farmers. Of approximately 185 tractors financed, 85
were Swaziland produced Tinkabis and the rest imported. Cattle advances
are becoming increasingly popular and are expected to further expand as the
amount that SDSB lends for each head was recently increased to 80% of cattle
value. Advances are currently outstanding against approximately 2,500 head of
cattle, representing over one third of the holding capacity of the Impala and
Lavumisa fattening ranches.
13.       During the 1975-76 season, SDSB made about 1,500 seasonal loans
not exceeding E500 (US$575) to Swazi farmers. The number of loans made in
the 1975-76 season was substantially unchanged from that of the prior season,
while the average size of loans increased from E105 in the 1974-75 season
to E125 in the 1975-76 season.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
14.       Management reports that more than 34% of the total number of loans
and 24% of the total Emalangeni amount disbursed by SDSB to Swazi Nation Land
farmers for seasonal loans are delinquent. Delinquency rates for loans made
under the Cotton Package Scheme, a program instituted in 1972 by the Ministry
of Agriculture to promote cotton production, are believed to be higher; the
Government guaranteed half the amount of each loan made under the Cotton
Package Scheme, and have indicated that they will pay SDSB for cotton loan
defaults, although they have not yet done so. SDSB management has observed
that there is a positive correlation between the ratio of loans to credit
advisers and delinquency rates. SDSB has recently overcome an initial reluc-
tance by its Board of Directors to use bill collectors. The belief was that
the practice would create a bad image for the bank and, therefore, limit
credit acceptance among Swazi farmers. Early results of the increased collec-
tion effort are reported to be encouraging.
15.       More detailed portfolio data should be available from 1977 on, upon
installation of a computerized management information system.
16.       SDSB's management believes that the Cotton Ginneries now finance
seasonally twice as much to small farmers as SDSB, charge interest rates
upwards of 14%, and experience low delinquency rates. The Ginneries sell
on credit, to their captive producers, seeds, fertilizers and chemicals,
the value of which they deduct from the proceeds of delivered cotton. The
Tobacco Cooperative finances a major portion of the tobacco producing farm-
ers at higher interest rates and lower costs than SDSB. SDSB's management
believes that the Tobacco Cooperative and the Ginneries derive their advan-
tages from their freedom from cumbersome loan approval procedures and com-
plex collateral considerations. SDSB finances primarily maize, beans,
groundnuts which are low return crops, or vegetables which are high-risk
crops; conversely SDSB's financing of high return crops like cotton, tobacco
and sugarcane, is relatively unimportant.  SDSB's management believes that
the emphasis on low return and high-risk crops is a major factor affecting
the quality of the small farmers' loan portfolio.
Staff and Training
17.       SDSB employs over 100 staff.  SDSB management believes that its
field force is of unusually high quality among Swaziland government and
commercial insitutions. All branch managers are Swazis. Some SDSB staff
have been hired away from the Ministry of Agriculture in recent years.
Salaries are competitive with the private sector and emphasis is placed
on in-service training. During fiscal year 1975, 19 new employees entered
a five-week credit training program organized by SDSB. Ten junior staff
members received refresher training as they were being prepared for higher
responsibility positions. One senior staff member is attending a three-
month banking course at the State Bank of Pakistan. A Swazi branch manager
attended a management training seminar in Sweden. Shortage of middle man-
agement level staff, however, is limiting SDSB's ability to expand, and the
problem is likely to persist for some time.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
B. Cooperatives
Background
18.       In 1963, the Ministry of Agriculture established the Department of
Cooperatives to promote the organization of cooperatives, and oversee their
operations. Initially, the Department of Cooperatives concentrated its
efforts on the conversion of existing farmers' associations into cooperative
societies. Due to limited human and financial resources, progress at first
was very slow. Larger farmers initially joined South African cooperatives,
and the earliest Swazi cooperatives comprised almost exclusively large farmers.
From 1962-64, the Department concentrated on enforcement of legislation;
cooperative extension efforts began on a pilot scale in 1964-65. Since
independence, however, the registration of cooperatives has increased substan-
tially: 14 new cooperatives were registered in the years 1963-68 and 73 in
the years 1969-75; of these, 10 and 37 respectively were farmers cooperatives.
Table 3 gives data on present registration of cooperatives and memberships.
19.       The first cooperatives were primarily seasonal input supply organi-
zations, and provided limited, albeit useful services to members. The need
for more broadly based producer cooperatives soon became apparent, largely as
a result of marketing problems.. Cooperative development was envisaged as an
essential part of the ODM-financed Rural Development Program, and the first
multi-purpose cooperatives accessible to small Swazi farmers were established
in RDA's. In 1974, a decision was made to promote multi-purpose cooperatives
throughout Swaziland, as a result of the response of farmers to cooperative
activity in RDA's. Since 1974, the Government has sought to utilize cooperatives
as a vehicle for: (a) providing inputs to farmers; (b) marketing cash crops
produced by Swazi farmers; and (c) providing credit to cooperative members.
In all three areas, development is still at a rather preliminary stage, but it
is clear that cooperatives will play an important role in future rural develop-
ment programs in all three areas. The Government of Swaziland regards the
cooperative movement as an important means for increasing the involvement of
the Swazi farmer in the economic development process and facilitating the
transition from dependence on subsistence crops to production of crops for
cash. The Government has committed significant resources to cooperative
development, and has successfully approached several multilateral and bilateral
donors for financial and technical assistance in the field of cooperative
development.
The Department of Cooperatives
20.       At the time of independence, the Department of Cooperatives became
part of the Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives. The Commissioner for
Cooperative Development heads the Department of Cooperatives and has senior
responsibility for the organization and supervision of all cooperatives.
The Department staff consists of a Deputy Commissioner and four senior



ANNEX 7
Page 7
Cooperative Officers. Each senior Cooperative Officer is responsible for
the administration and supervision of cooperatives in each of the four
districts into which Swaziland is divided. Each senior Cooperative Officer
has a field staff of Cooperative Officers, Assistant Cooperative Officers
and a District Marketing Officer. Three support departments report to the
Deputy Commissioner; they are Marketing, Audit, and Training, and each is
headed by an Assistant Commissioner. The District Marketing officers report
to the Assistant Commissioner of marketing on technical matters, but work
closely with the senior Cooperative Officers in the districts. The Audit
department has a staff of accountants and bookkeepers who audit the
cooperative societies. The Training department will in future organize
training in the Cooperative Development center, now under construction (see
para 24).
The Central Cooperative Union
21.       As early as 1968-69, the need to coordinate cooperative activity
became apparent, and district unions of cooperatives were formed. In 1971, a
Central Cooperative Union (CCU) was registered, with membership open to all
primary societies; most have chosen to join CCU. CCU is an autonomous body,
run by an elected Board of Directors. At present, the Government provides
considerable support (financial and personnel) and close guidance. The
Department of Cooperatives audits the CCU. There is close cooperation at
the working level between Ministry and CCU staff, and CCU managers are civil
servants seconded by and paid by Government.
22.       CCU has begun to play an active role in procuring and distributing
inputs required by farmers. The Ministries of Agriculture and Commerce and
Cooperatives, CCU and SDSB are represented on a National Farm Inputs and
Marketing Committee; the Committee decides every year quantities of farm
inputs to buy for the entire nation. CCU places bulk orders to supply the
inputs with the Swaziland Milling Corporation, a private trading company,
which purchases the inputs in South Africa. SDSB finances CCU's inventory
purchases at their usual business terms; the Government guarantees CCU's
borrowings. The suppliers deliver the inputs to nine main depots run by CCU
located throughout Swaziland. Inputs are sold for cash or purchase authorities
to individual farmers at the main depots. The main depots sell to cooperative
members as well as non-members. Cooperative members get a discount of approxi-
mately 3% off the sales price of inputs. The primary societies distribute
inputs to their members, who generally pay cash. The Cooperatives sell a
small amount of inputs on credit. CCU plans to play the same national coordi-
nating role for crop marketing as it now does for input supplies.
23.       CCU stands in need of improvement of its management and controls.
Current data on CCU finances and operations is incomplete and unreliable.
CCU's management hopes to produce shortly satisfactory financial statements
for the fiscal year ended May 31, 1976. Financial information for control and
reporting purposes has been insufficient to date. The total inventory value
in the nine main depots at May 31, 1976 was estimated by CCU at E271,000



ANNEX 7
Page 8
(US$311,000). Sales at the nine main depots for the year ended May 31, 1976
were estimated by CCU at E162,000 (US$186,000); this figure does not include
inter-cooperative sales. Delays in the delivery of supplies were believed to
be the primary cause for the relatively high level of unsold inventory.
Purchasing mistakes, transportation breakdowns, and the unavailability of
timely farmers' credit may also be causes for the inefficient merchandising
of farm inputs.
C. Assistance to Cooperatives and Agricultural Credit
24.       Bilateral and multilateral assisance has been made available to
Swaziland's cooperative movement in the areas of training, finance and
marketing. Major assistance activities are summarized below:
(a) ILO/SIDA Project: This project has provided funds for the
establishment of a Cooperative Development Center in Mbabane
and technical assistance. The building complex, which is
expected to be completed in 1976, will be the headquarters of
the Department of Cooperatives as well as the training center
for CCU and Department of Cooperatives staff. The project
investments cover staff and operating costs for the first
three years including training and salaries of the primary
cooperative societies' secretary-managers.
(b) 0DM Loan: The UK's Overseas Development Ministry (ODM)
has agreed to make available to CCU a E500,000 (US$575,000)
loan at concessionary terms. The loan will replace an over-
draft of E416,000 outstanding to SDSB and provide CCU with
the working capital it needs to support its input supply
operations.
(c) Part of the USAID loan to SDSB for small farmers credit
(para 9) may be employed to assist CCU operations. USAID
has agreed in principle that SDSB could utilize this facility
to fund advances to CCU under a line of credit for the
purchase of inputs.
(d) ODM has agreed to provide a technical assistant to serve as
General Manager of CCU for three years.
(e) A cooperative marketing project currently under negotiation
with USAID would provide technical assistance, training and
inputs to assist the Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives
and CCU in creating a cooperative-based marketing system for
small farmers. Over four years a USAID staff of eleven would
execute the project and train Swazi staff. The Swazi staff
would then take over and the USAID staff act as advisors for two
additional years.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
D. Analysis and Conclusions
Credit Usage
25.       SDSB is effectively the only insitutional source of seasonal lend-
ing to the small Swazi farmers. As Table 4 indicates, total bank loans and
advances outstanding to the agricultural sector in Swaziland were E21,069,000
(US$24.2 million) on March 31, 1976; small seasonal loans outstanding to Swazi
farmers were less than 1% of the total, approximately E180,000 (US$200,000).
These figures illustrate dramatically the dualism of Swaziland's economy;
Swazi farmers on Swazi Nation Land make up 70% of the country's population,
yet they are virtually excluded from institutional credit. Other sources of
agricultural credit are available to small farmers. The more important non-
bank sources are the Cotton Ginneries and the Cooperative system. Estimates
of the amount of credit made available from these sources range from E400,000
to E600,000 (US$460,000-690,000). No other significant sources of credit to
small farmers on Swazi Nation Land are apparent. A rough estimate of small
farmers' credit usage on Swazi Nation Land would be in the neighborhood of
E700,000 (US$805,000).
26.       Most farmers appear now to choose, or are forced, to purchase inputs
for cash. Of CCU total sales of inputs, about 73% involved seasonal credit.
However, CCU's share of the input market on Swazi Nation Land is estimated at
about one third, with the remainder dominated by 'Farm Chemicals', an affiliate
of Swaziland Milling Company. Data showing what percentage of Farm Chemicals
sales is to commercial farmers as opposed to Swazi Nation Land farmers is not
available. Swazi Nation Land farmers probably account for less than half Farm
Chemicals sales. In summary, farmers on Swazi Nation Land probably use credit
to finance 50% to 60% of total inputs purchases; allowing a margin of error
due to poor data, Swazi Nation Land farmers' current usage is likely to be in
the neighborhood of E750,000 to finance purchases of about E1,500,000 worth of
farm inputs.
27.       The incremental input demand during the five years of implementation
of the proposed Project can be estimated at about E110,000 per year, or
E550,000 by the year five. Thus, a conservative estimate of incremental input
credit demand by Swazi Nation Land farmers would be approximately E85,000 per
year during the project years or E425,000 in five years.
SDSB - Evaluation
28.       SDSB has been in operation for over ten years.  They are experienced
in agricultural lending and have developed substantial technical and credit
expertise. The quality of the management information systems is fair and
is in the process of 'eing upgraded. SDSB has produced audited financial
statements for several years; they show management's ability to sustain
considerable institutional growth while maintaining profitability and a
satisfactory financial condition. While the ultimate assessment of the
quality of the loan portfolio would depend on its analysis, which is beyond
the scope of this report, the lending policies appear conservative and the
loans adequately collateralized. Liquidity at March 31, 1975 was high. Table
1 shows a summary of financial statements for the four fiscal years ended
1975. SDSB has a well qualified and trained staff.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
29.       Among Swazis, SDSB appears to have a commercial bank image. This
may simply reflect the attitudes of rural poor towards money and banking; it
may also arise from a largely expatriate top management or what are viewed
by the public as onerous security requirements. SDSB's management hopes to
solve the security related problems with the passage of legislation introduc-
ing the 'deed of hypothecation' (chattel mortgage). Farmers, now believe that
the value of security SDSB requires is high in relation to the amount lent.
SDSB's small loans approval process is lengthy and cumbersome. SDSB's small
seasonal loans have suffered from a lack of flexibility to suit borrower's
needs: (i) The September 30 maturity date is arbitrary and may not coincide
with the particular crop being financed, and (ii) the computation of interest,
6% flat, does not reflect the amount actually borrowed or the period the loan
is outstanding.
30.       SDSB has the general expertise to administer a successful agricultural
lending program to Swazi Nation Land farmers and any further institutional
expansion of agricultural credit to small farmers should draw on this expertise.
Small seasonal loans, however, represent about 2% of SDSB's total loans
and, consequently, cannot now be a high management priority. This lack of
focus explains in part why, in spite of a very low interest rate (6%), SDSB
satisfies less than one third of the Swazi Nation Land farmers estimated usage
of small seasonal credit. SDSB management supports a substantial increase in
interest rates to reflect the cost of administering credit.
31.       Interest Rate Policy:  The Government has directed SDSB to charge 6%
interest on seasonal input loans up to E500. It appears that the full finan-
cial implications of this directive were not considered at the time of the
decision. In fact, effective interest rates have been higher because SDSB
charges the 6% interest on a 'flat' basis regardless of the actual amount
drawn down and the period a loan was outstanding. It is nevertheless clear
that interest revenues do not cover the cost of the small farmers' credit
and SDSB now accepts that the more profitable business loans support the
small seasonal loans losses. SDSB should determine the real cost to SDSB
of the small seasonal lending program, and provide such information to the
Government. The Government should then determine explicitly how the cost
must be shared among the-Government, SDSB and the Swazi farmers.
Cooperatives - Evaluation
32.       The cooperatives' main advantage over SDSB in agricultural credit
expansion is their familiarity to the Swazi farmer. Cooperative members
know each other personally. The current loan approval procedure, though not
necessarily faster than SDSB's, is simpler. When a cooperative lends to a
member, it accepts personal guarantees of other members as security. The
Secretary Manager of a Cooperative has the right to seize cattle of defaulting
borrowers. However, only members may borrow from a cooperative, and membership
is only about 4% of Swazi Nation Land farmers. The cooperatives' funds are
limited, and the cooperatives do not have yet the financial and management
expertise necessary to administer a credit program. Proper bookkeeping and
record keeping procedures have not yet been instituted. Secretary - Managers



ANNEX 7
Page 11
require training. CCU's central coordinating and support role has not yet
been clearly established. As a result, cooperatives have provided very little
credit to small farmers, and virtually none to those who do not have access to
other credit sources. In order to play a more significant role in agricultural
credit in the near future, the cooperatives will need to draw on the technical
expertise of institutions such as SDSB. In addition, some modifications in
credit policies or law may be required to enable cooperatives to borrow from
financial institutions on the basis of the collective guarantee of its members.
Recommendations
33.       Swazi Nation Land farmers currently use approximately E700,000
in small seasonal input credit. The sources of this credit are: (i) about
60% private, primarily cotton ginners; (ii) about 26% SDSB; and (iii) about
14% the cooperatives. Cumulative incremental demand for this type of credit
would be about E425,000 over the five Project years. These figures are
estimates extrapolated from incomplete data. The Cotton Ginners charge 14%
interest, and more for credit; the cooperatives charge 10% to 12%, and SDSB
charges 6% nominal interest rate; effective SDSB rates charges may be higher.
34.       SDSB has the management and credit expertise necessary to channel
small farmers' credit. However, they do not relate to the Swazi farmers
as closely as the cooperatives. SDSB approval processes are cumbersome and
their lending conditions are not flexible enough to meet the farmers' needs.
The cooperatives have simpler approval and security procedures and are more
familiar to the Swazi farmers. They are not well equipped, however, to
supervise and control borrowers and administer credit programs. Therefore,
cooperation between SDSB and cooperatives in strengthening small farmer credit
will be essential.
35.       To build on the existing strengths of both institutions would
offer the best chances of success to the small seasonal lending program on
Swazi Nation Land. The following proposals are recommended by the mission:
(a) SDSB should undertake a study to gain better knowledge and
understanding of small seasonal credit needs on Swazi
Nation Land. The aim should be to meet a substantial por-
tion of the total demand, in order to reduce the overhead
cost per loan;
(b) SDSB should more clearly identify human and financial re-
sources now committed to small farmers' credit. A separate
department, separate bookkeeping, separate revenue and ex-
pense records, separate assets and liabilitias management
would provide better cost information to management. On the
basis of that information, management could make more rational
decisions on the pricing of loans and recommendations to the
Government on the extent of subsidies;



ANNEX 7
Page 12
(c) In order to insure the timely availability of credit in the
RDA's, the basic credit infrastructure should consist of
field staff, vehicles, and housing. Credit advisors would
generate new loan business, and advise the Ministry of
Agriculture extension staff and the cooperatives' secretary
managers on all credit matters; they would oversee loan
collection. Credit Advisors' housing could function as
a rural mini-branch or loan production office. Credit
Assistants could be model customers and their main purpose
would be credit demonstration and education of other
farmers;
(d) Close coordination with the cooperative system would enhance
SDSB's credit penetration among farmers. At the central le-
vel, SDSB should share with CCU its general knowledge of
the small farmers' credit sector and provide technical as-
sistance to CCU in implementing and monitoring the direct
lending operations of the cooperatives. At the field le-
vel, each credit advisor should be assigned to three to
six cooperatives as a consultant on credit matters, and
should visit them periodically to offer his assistance;
(e) Much of the success of the RDA program depends on timely
provision and use of inputs. As a substantial amount of
inputs would be purchased on credit, the extension offi-
cers should insure that farmers secure the necessary cre-
dit at the appropriate time;
(f) At least once a year, SDSB should report to the Ministries
of Agriculture and Finance and Planning on small farmers'
loans, specifying number of loans, amounts outstanding,
maturities, interest charged, past due loans, write-offs,
a detailed account of revenues and expenses of its small
loans department. The report should also include its
analysis of the sector as a whole, a budget for the fol-
lowing year with a recommendation on the interest rate to
be charged. The Government, in approving or rejecting
the interest rate recommendation, should indicate how the
budget deficit, if any, would be covered.
November 22, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swaziland Development and Savings Bank
Comparative Balance Sheets
(Thousand Emalangeni)
March 31,       March 31,      March 31,      March 31,
1972            1973           1974           1975
Liquid Assets                                            199              33            256          3,112
Current Assets                                            35              85            150            124
Secured Loans                                         3,035            4,257          6,708          8,567
Investments                                              828             971          1,558          2,219
Premises & Equipment                                     142             259            372            358
Total Resources                                       4,239            5.605          9J044         14,380
Deposits                                               1,718           1,680          3,394          8,083
Current Liabilities                                       79             315            966            429
Borrowed Funds                                         2,089           2,575          2,596          2,690
Capital & Reserves                                       353           1,035          2,088          3,178
% Increase Total Resources over prior year               -                32             -61            59
Loans   Deposits                                        1.77            2.53           1.98           1.06
Total Resources e Capital & Reserves                   12.01            5.42           4.33           4.52
Liquid Assets % of Total Resources                     4.69             0.59           2.82          21.64
Profit & Loss Account
for the years ended
March 31,       March 31,      March 31,      March 31,
1972            1973           1974           1975
Interest, Rent and Commissions                           318             402            564          1,114
Less:
Administration Expense                            193              235            308            531
Interest Paid                                     107             120            159            446
Depreciation                                       15               18             44             47
Net Profit (Loss)                                          3              29             53             90
Net Profit % of Total Resources                         0.07            0.52           0.59           0.63
September 2, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 2
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Swaziland Development and Savings Bank
Distribution of Loans 1/
at 3/31/1975
(Thousand Emalangeni)
Agriculture                       3,170                         37 %
Business                          2,570                         30 %
Housing                           1,970                         23 %
Other                               857                         10 %
Total               8,567                        100 %
1/ Source: Swaziland Developuent and Savings Bank.
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 3
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Registration of Cooperatives
1963-1968    1969-1975      TOTAL
Farmers Cooperatives                            10          37           47
Savings and Credit Cooperatives                  3          25           28
Cooperative Unions                               -           6            6
Others                                           1           5            6
Total                  14           73           87
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 7
Table 4
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Bank Loans
and advances outstanding 1/
(Thousand Emalangeni)
3/31/76                             3/31/75
Sector                                            Amount           %                  Amount                %
Agriculture/Forestry                              21,069           60.5                7,701                39.5
Mining & Quarrying                                   125            0.4                  412                 2.1
Manufacturing                                      3,565           10.2                2,774                14.2
Construction                                         731            2.1                  285                 1.5
Distribution                                       4,957           14.2                4,865                25.0
Finance & Insurance                                3,869           11.1                2,926                15.0
Community, Social & Personal Services                534            1.5                  531                 2.7
Total                                             34,850          100.0               19,494               100.0
1/Source: The Monetary Authority of Swaziland, Annual Report.
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area
1.        This annex describes the ten rural development areas (RDA's) where
development under the proposed Project would be concentrated. The definition
and concept of rural development areas are also discussed. Further, a brief
description of RDA's where ODM-financed activities are underway or planned is
presented. The map shows limits and location of all current and proposed RDA's.
A. Rural Development Areas
2.        The Swaziland Government's rural development programs are effectively
limited to Swazi Nation Land areas; rural development areas (RDA's) are areas
of Swazi Nation Land designated for intensive development effects. To date,
definition and selection of RDA's has been the responsibility of the land plan-
ning section of the Ministry of Agriculture. Areas selected have been those
with heavy concentration of population and good development potential; further,
areas with good communications and coherent physical configuration have been
sought. A population of about 15,000 has been viewed as optimal, and evidence of
interest by the population in development a further desirable trait.
3.        Development programs are underway in four RDA's, covering about 6%
of communally held Swazi Nation Land. In each area, a project manager admin-
isters development activities, supervises Ministry of Agriculture staff, and
coordinates (to a varying extent) activities of other Ministries. An addi-
tional 10 RDA's have been defined. In total, the 14 areas would cover about
60% of communally held Swazi Nation Land, leaving about 40% of these areas
not directly involved in the Ministry of Agriculture's intensive development
programs. The Government proposes that 8 of the new RDA's be designated
"minimum input" or "low input" areas, signifying that in the initial phase
development activities will be more restricted than in "maximum input" or
"intensive" RDA's. The proposed Project would include these 8 RDA's and two
areas designated for intensive development. In both intensive RDA's, some
land use planning has already been undertaken, and in one, Mpolonjeni,
significant development activities focused on livestock were undertaken in the
past, although they have slowed in recent years because funds expired.
4.        RDA's have no legal or official administrative status, except as
agricultural administrative units. RDA's do not follow administrative,
political or geographic boundaries. Swazi Government officials describe RDA's
as an administrative unit which is not intended as a permanent jurisdiction.
Rather, they perceive RDA's as a mechanism for developing services and infra-
structure, which would then revert to the normal administrative hierarchy,
under the jurisdiction of field organizations of responsible ministries.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Rural Development Areas Included in the Project
5.        Ten RDA's comprise the Project Area.  They are as follows:
RDA       District  Geographic Region  Hectares  Population
(1976 estimate)
Intensive RDA's
(i)  Lubombo-Mpolonjeni        Lubombo        Lubombo         98,588    27,770
and Middleveld
(ii)  Mahamba-Zombodze          Shiselweni    Middleveld       19,810    16,108
Non-Intensive RDA's
(iii)  Bekinkosi-Mliba           Manzini        Middleveld      27,232    14,154
(iv)  Mahanga-Hluti             Shiselweni    Middleveld       52,453    17,779
(v)  Masola-Vikizijula         Lubombo        Lowveld         22,585     4,923
(vi)  Nkambeni-Madlangampisi   Hhohho          Lowveld         27,702     5,075
(vii)  Sandleni-Luqolweni        Shiselweni    Middleveld       38,350    17,620
(viii)  Siphofaneni-Maphobeni    Lubombo         Lowveld         24,993      5,075
(ix)  Siphocosini-Motshane      Hhohho         Highveld        19,070      7,655
(x)  Sithobela-Madubeni        Lubombo        Lowveld         38,167     7,908
Total                                                 348,950   124,067
Further details are given in Table 1.  Table 2 summarizes the current estimated
cropping pattern. A description of characteristics of each RDA is given below:
(i) Lubombo-Mpolonjeni
6.        General:  The RDA is located in two ecological zones - on the Lubombo
plateau, and in the eastern Lowveld (Mpolonjeni). The Lubombo area includes
all Swazi Nation Land on the plateau and is subdivided into four sections (see
map): Lomahasha section, Majombeni section, Sitataweni section, and Tikuba
section. Mpolonjeni stretches south of the main Siteki-Manzini road, bounded
on the east by the Foot and Mouth Cordon and the west by Freehold Title Land.
There are eleven chiefdoms within the RDA.
7.        Holdings:  About 4,296 hectares in Mpolonjeni and 3,863 hectares in
Lubombo are classified as individual holdings. Communal land covers 35,487
hectares in Mpolonjeni and 55,042 ha. in Lubombo. Settlement in Lubombo is
concentrated on the arable lands, located on the western fringe of the plateau.
Population pressure and shortage of arable land in Lubombo are problems.
8.        Topography:  There are three relief zones:  the Lowveld zone, rang-
ing between 160 and 285 m. with undulating topography; the Lubumbo escarpment,
rising sharply from the Lowveld to approximately 750 m.; and the Lubombo
plateau, ranging in altitude from 500 to 750 m, with undulating topography.
The Lowveld zone is essentially comprised of Karoo basalt, a basic volcanic
rock which weathers relatively easily. The Lubombo plateau is formed from
rhyolite which is more resistant to weathering.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
9.        Climate:  Climate differs significantly between the two zones, as
rainfall increases about 25 mm. for every 30 meters increase in altitude.
Average annual rainfall at Wisselrode (155 m. asl.) is 533 mm, and at
Siteki (653 m. asl.) 864 mm. Annual variability of rainfal increases
as annual rainfall decreases. A figure of 600 mm of summer rain is the
estimated lower limit for successful commercial maize and bean production;
irrigation is thus required for these crops in Mpolonjeni. Annual mean tem-
perature at Wisselrode is 21.80C and at Siteki 19.40C.
10.       Soils 1/:  The association of soils found in the Mpolonjeni area
differs from the Lumbombo plateau. Soils in Mpolonjeni consist of red, brown
and black clay loams and clays of the R, C (LV), K, and V sets, with large
areas of very shallow dry loams of the S (LV) set. Soils in the area have
been surveyed at the semi-detailed level by I.C. Baillie (1968). The red
and brown clay loams and clays of the 'R' and 'C (LV)' sets are neutral to
slightly acid soils, which average between 50 and 80 cms. in depth. The
underlying basalt is usually weathered and permeable allowing a further 20
cms. for rooting. Soil structure is generally well developed and profiles
generally moderately well drained (the brown clays being less permeable than
the red clays). The soils are nomally 90% base saturated, with calcium dom-
inating the exchange sites. Brown clays often have a calcereous subsoil. The
black clays are characterized by a black montmorillonitic clay texture with a
well developed vertisolic features. The 'K' set averages between 70 - 90 cms.
in depth, whilst the 'V' Set profiles are generally over 150 cms. Soil struc-
ture is well developed often with a surface "mulch". Drainage is imperfect,
but downward drainage is facilitated by deep cracks. The soils are highly
base saturated with increasing amounts of sodium, particularly in the lower
lying 'V' Set soils. In their natural condition, they are only slightly
saline. The widespread shallow 'S(LV)' Set soils are shallow varients of the
red and brown clay loams and clays. Profiles are less than 35 cms. deep to
the underlying basalt. The basalt is often soft and weathered permitting an
additional 10 - 20 cms. of rooting medium. The soils have been known to grow
good sugar cane and reasonable cotton yields have been obtained under irriga-
tion (but with frequent and small water applications). Low total available
moisture capacity is a major limitation. The 'L' set red clay loams and the
'S(HV)' shallow red clay loams of the Lubombo are derived from deeply weathered
rhyolite. They are slightly acid (pH 6.0), well structured, and moderately to
well drained soils. The 'L' Set averages 80 - 120 cms. in depth and overlies
soft weathered rhyolite. Base saturation is about 60%.
11.       Land Use Potential:  Potential land use in the RDA has been classified
as follows:
(a) Dryland/irrigated cropping: 15,093 hectares; land is well
suited to rainfed cotton in Mpolonjeni and a cotton/maize
rotation in the Lubombo. Continuous cropping is possible
using correct fertilizer recommendations and soil moisture
conservation measures. Mean maize yields from demonstration
plots (1957-68) on the Lomahasheni clay loans were 1800 Kg/Ha;
1/   Appendix 1 summarizes soil set characteristics.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
however, these yields were obtained mainly from open pollinated
maize varieties except during the latter years, and the Loco
variety of cotton. The new improved varieties of maize (e.g.,
SR 52) and cotton (Albacala) should give higher yields.
(b) Dryland cropping: requiring more intensive soil conservation
measures. 11,640 hectares. This land is significantly
lower in its production potential because of limitations
of total soil moisture capacity and rooting depth, or
because of difficulties of working the soil (heavy clay
texture);
(c) Grazing areas: 50,678 hectares. This land is suitable for
extensive grazing only. Soils are very shallow and slopes
are generally steep (between 15 - 40%). Occasional rock
outcrops occur. Carrying capacities of the pastures are
estimated at 1 Livestock Unit to 4 hectares in Mpolonjeni
(including arable land) and 1 per 2.65 hectares on the
Lubombo;
(d) Other land: 27,178 hectares. This land comprises the very
steep and rocky slopes of the Lubombo gorges and escarpment.
In the deep gorges there are areas of very dense indigenous
forest. The livestock carrying capacity is very low and it
is recommended that the areas of forest be fenced off and
conserved because of their high scientific value.
12.       Availability of orthophotomaps, aerial photographs and maps:  No
orthophotomaps are yet available for the RDA. The latest aerial photography
available is the 1971 national coverage at a scale of 1:30,000. The western
and central parts of Mpolonjeni are covered by photography at a scale of
1:15,000. Enlargements of the 1:30,000 aerial photograph at a scale of
1:15,000 were produced for the Nation Census (1976).
13.       Land Utilization and Production Patterns:  Land used for holdings in
Mpolonjeni amounts to 10.8% of the area or 4,296 hectares; that on the Lubombo
amounts to only 6.4% of the area or 3,763 hectares. Land utilization is shown
below:
Cropland               Fallow        Woodland    Other
Mpolonjeni    3,320 ha. (77.3%)    730 ha. (17%)           -     245 ha. (5.7%)
Lubombo        3,190 ha. (84.9%)    350 ha. (9.3%)         _     218 ha. (5.8%)
The proportion under fallow in the Lowveld is the highest of all regions,
whilst in the Lubombo it is the lowest; this illustrates the higher land
pressure on the Lubombo. Area under individual crops is estimated as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Crop                 Mpolonjeni                           Lubombo
(ha)
Maize                 2,165                                2,657
Groundnuts               166                                 287
Cotton                  372                                   89
Beans                     73                                   6
Others                  385                                  111
Total          3,161                               3?120
14.       Pasture and Livestock:  The Mpolonjeni area has been classified as
Dry Acacia savanna. In its natural state, it is mostly open parkland of Acacia
nigrescens, Schlerosaya caffra, with thickets of Acacia gillettiae on the
black clays along dry watercourses. Grasses include Themeda triandra
variety trachyopathea and Panicum maximum. The areas of the old Mpolonjeni
and Ngeina R.D.A. were fenced off into five grazing areas in 1968. A well
organized system of rotational grazing exists. The pastures are classed as
"sweet". On the Lubombo, vegetation is classified as mixed bush and savanna.
Pastures range from sweet to moderately sour. Some fencing of grazing areas
was done in the 1940's, but most is in a poor condition. Overgrazing has
occurred in some areas. In the deep ravines, dense indigenous forest
occurs with Podocarpus sPp. dominating in parts. Total cattle numbers were
estimated as follows in 1974:
Lomahasha
Class of Stock    Mpolonieni         Tikuba         Stataweni          Malembeni
Bulls                  273              329               26               109
Cows                  4835            3559               573              1898
Oxen                  3003             1847              348               780
2-3 yrs. ) Male       1605  )         1191  )            170  )            460
) Female    1509  )          1162  )           179  )            435
1-2 yrs. ) Male       1140  )          317  )            119  )            409
) Female    1111  )           524  )           112  )            416
Calves   ) Male       1206  )          829  )            101  )            526
) Female    1346  )           727  )            92  )            504
Goats                 4091            2810  )            405              1993
Sheep                  451             252                96               157



ANNEX 8
Page 6
The area available for grazing in Mpolonjeni is estimated at 33,737 hectares;
pastures are present carrying 1 A.U. per 3.04 ha. Tikuba has approximately
23,965 ha. of good grazing and 19,687 ha. of poor grazing. Stataweni has
2,600 ha. of good grazing land, and 1,600 ha. of poor grazing land. Good
pastures are at present carrying 1 A.U. per 1.96 hectares. The Lomahasha/
Majambeni block has 4,150 ha. of good grazing and 4,090 ha. of poor grazing
land. Good pastures are at present carrying 1 A.U. to 0.91 hectares.
15.       Communications:  Mpolonjeni is served by the main Siteki - Big Bend
road and by the district road from Mplonjeni to Phuzamoyo, as well as a road
linking the Engeina area east of the Nkutshane Stream. A track links Magwanya
to the top of the Lubombo near Tikuba; it is in bad condition during the sum-
mer rains. The Lubombo foot and mouth cordon road runs the whole length of
the bottom of the Lubombo scarp. On top of the Lubombo a district road
links the Tikuba area. A district road links Siteki with Statweni. There is
no direct link on the Lubombo with Siteki and the northern sectors of Lomahash
and Majambani. The main road to Lomahasha from Manzini links these areas to
Siteki. Two district roads link Lomahasha and Majambeni with the main road.
The nearest railhead for Tikuba and Mpolonjeni is Mpaka and that for Lomahasha
is Mlaula. This single track line links Manzini and Maputo. Bus services
link Lomahasha, Tikuba, Mpolonjeni and Stataweni with Siteki and Manzini.
16.       Social Services:  Four secondary schools serve the RDA, two located
in Siteki, one at Lomahasha and one at Ebenezer Mission. Mpolonjeni has
11 primary schools, Tikuba 9, Stataweni 2, and Lomahasha 4. There
are five rural health clinics in the area, with two additional clinics in
Siteki itself. They are served by the Good Shepherd Hospital and Health
Center in Siteki, which has a capacity of 100 beds. Clinics are located in
Lomahasha, Shewala, Ngoina, Ebenezer and a new clinic recently opened at
Tikuba. The Good Shepherd Hospital has expanded its public health and hy-
giene education activities with visits to clinics and schools throughout the
Lumbombo District by a Public Health Team. Particular aspects covered are
child care, nutrition, hygiene, and misunderstandings of baby food advertise-
ments.
(ii) Mahamba-Zombodze
17.       General:  The RDA is situtated on the south-western border of Swazi-
land, in the Nhlangano sub-district of the Shiselweni district. It is bounded
in the north-west by the Mkhondo river; in the north by freehold title land
on the outskirts of Nhlangano town; in the east by the Mhlosheni Hills (most
of which are also freehold title land), and in the south and south-west by the
border with the Republic of South Africa. Nhlangano, the nearest town, lies
three kilometres beyond the northern boundary; Manzini is 102 kilometres from
Nhlangano. The area includes parts of the following Chiefdoms - Jabulani,
Dluvunga, Embilaneni, KaZombodze, Eugwenyameni, Emampondeweni, Esikhoseni
(Mtombe). Population is unevenly distributed, areas of moderate to high
density alternate with areas where the population is low or even non-existent.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
18.       Map and Airphoto Cover:  The area is covered by 1:50,000 scale
sheets, 1:5,000 scale orthophotomaps (1973), 1:15,000 contact prints, and
1:30,000 contact prints.
19.       Topography:  The RDA falls into four sub-regions:
(a) The Mozane River lowlands area: the Mozane rises in the
vicinity of Mahamba and flows south-east along the inter-
national boundary before entering the Republic. The south-
eastern part of the RDA is drained by the Nyamane River and
its tributaries which eventually joins the Mozane south of
the border zone. Along the Mozane, the lowland forms a
relatively narrow strip between the international boundary
and the hills to the north (in the vicinity of Nhlangano).
To the south-east, in the midsection of the Nyamane catch-
ment, the lowland area is more extensive and includes parts
of the lower Nyamane and Zombodze districts and most of the
Chibidze district;
(b) The central uplands: to the west and south of Nhlangano is
an area of highveld of between 1070 and 1200 meters; slopes
are generally moderate to gentle;
(c) The Mkhondo River Valley: the south-eastern side of the
Mkhondo valley forms the north-western "arm" of the RDA.
Slopes are moderate to gentle with steep slopes being con-
fined to the Jabulani and Luphuveni districts in the north;
(d) Mahamba Hill: is a small isolated, steep sided ridge
trending in a north-west-south-east direction; altitude
reaches 1285 meters at the highest point.
20.       Climate:  There are no meteorological stations inside the RDA, but
records are available for Nhlangano; average annual rainfall for Nhlangano for
the period 1934-1970 was 856 mms. The drought hazard (i.e., the percentage of
years in which less than 500 mm's rainfall can be expected) is estimated at
between 40% and 60% throughout the area, with the exception of the highveld
enclave in the west, where it is approximately 35%.
21.       Soils:  Soils are derived from two main types of parent rock in the
area. In the Mozane lowlands, sandstone, shale and karoo coal predominate
with the soils adjacent to the river and its tributaries being of the I set
and G set classification. 1/ In the south-east (Chibidze) A set soils predomi-
nate in the interfluves. In the upland areas where coarse-grained granite is
dominant, the U set soils predominate with small pockets of M, Q, 0 and JH sets
also occurring.
1/  Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
22.       Water Resources:  The RDA lies within the catchments of two main
rivers - the Mkhondo, which forms the north-western boundary and the Mozane
to the south. Larger tributaries to these rivers rise in the uplands around
Nhlangano and include the Mlambomude (Mkhondo) and the Mbukwane, riatimatima,
Ngidangoma and Nyamane (Mozane). All the rivers and most of the streams are
perennial. There is marshy land in the vicinity of the Mozane and its
tributaries.
23.       Land Use Potential:  According to the Land Capability Map of Swazi-
land (Murdoch, 1968) the RDA is classified as follows: -
Capability                          Area
(hectares)
Dryland or irrigated cropping                     5,122
Dryland cropping, more intensive soil
conservation measures required                    7,442
Wetland, winter grazing only                      2,418
Permanent grazing                                 4,828
Total       19,810
More detailed surveys will be required before detailed land use planning can
be carried out. Table 2 shows areas under various crops.
24.       Pasture and Livestock:  Grazing land available in summer months
amounts to approximately 14,021 hectares. The most extensive pasture type is
Upland Tall Grassveld with Highland Sourveld occurring on the highveld areas -
Mahamba hill and the central uplands. Upland tall grassveld is found in
the Nhlangano area. Grassland is sour and fairly open, and the main grass
species are Tristachya hispida and Hyparrhenia filipendula which provide
approximately eight months of palatable and nutritious grazing each year.
Highland sourveld consists of open, fairly short grassland dominated by
Themeda triandra (Rooigras) which is very sour and provides only six months of
useful grazing. Total cattle numbers were estimated at 14,571 in addition to
5,244 goats and 2,246 sheep. Recommended stocking rates are one A.U. to
2.65 hectares, compared with the present rate of one A.U. to 1.06 hectares;
the area is thus seriously overstocked, with soil erosion, malnutrition, and
poor calving rates a result. In small areas the situation has been alleviated
by use of unutilized freehold title farms for grazing.
25.       Communications:  Gravel roads link Nhlangano with the South African
border at Mahamba (15 km), Piet Retief (a further 35 km), Hlatikulu (27
km) and Manzini (75 km beyond). A district road constructed in 1972 gives
access to the central part of the RDA.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
26.       Social Services:  In 1972 there were 19 primary schools in the area
enrolling 5,249 pupils. There are three secondary schools. A clinic and
British Red Cross Society Center are located in Nhlangano, and a new clinic has
recently opened in the RDA itself.
27.       Extension Services:  There is one all-purpose field officer and two
tobacco field officers in the RDA, and one domestic science demonstrator.
There are four small fertilizer depots. Four cooperative societies are regis-
tered and there are two credit unions.
(iii) Bekinkosi-Mliba
28.       General:  Situated in northeast Manzini District, between the White
and Black Umbuluzi Rivers, the RDA is bounded on the west and east by freehold
title land. Luve, focal point of the area, is 32 km. from Manzini. Five
chiefdoms cover the RDA. Settlement is relatively uniform with higher densities
on good land of Bekinkosi and near Luve.
29.       Topography:  Two main topographic features characterize the area:
the dolerite Lutortya Hills, approximately 12 kilometers in length and running
in a north-south direction, and undulating land to the east and west of the
Lutortya Hills.
30.       Climate:  Mean annual rainfall decreases from about 800 mm in the
west, to 700 mm in the east. Foyers is representative of the western section,
and Mpisi the eastern section. Aspect appears to be more important than
altitude, with southeast facing slopes generally receiving more rain.
Temperatures drop in June and July when occasional ground frosts may occur in
the lower river valleys.  The annual mean temperature is about 22 C, with a
high of 26 C in January-February and a low of 15 C in June-July.
31.       Soils:  The Bekinkosi area has been surveyed at a semi-detailed
level "- ,uirdoch (1966) and the remaining area at reconnaissance level by
Murdoch (1968). There are three major soil types in the area:
(a) Deep red loams found in the Bekinkosi area, consisting
of deep, well-drained acid sandy loams to Kaolinitic
clays. The soils are highly leached and of the 'M set. 1/
If fertilizer recommendations are followed, yields of up
to 5,000 kgs of maize, 1,000 kgs of cotton, and 1,500 kgs
of shelled groundnuts, per hectare, can be attained.
(b)  Deep sandy soils:  these are either grey, pink or red
loamy sands to sandy clay loams. The grey soils (E set)
are excessively permeable with low moisture retention
capacity. The pink sandy loams (J set) and red sandy
1/   Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
loams (L set) are more fertile and have better moisture
holding capacity. Yields should approach 90% of the M
set on the J set soils, and 100% of the M set on the L
set soils. Yields on the E set soils can only be expected
to be 40% of the HI set potential.
(c) Shallow soils: grey, sandy loams overlying decomposed
gneiss (Orrin series). These soils are used at the Luve
Research Plot and provided rainfall is adequate, yields
should approach 90% of the M set soils. Soil erosion is
a problem.
32.       Water Resources;  The Black Umbuluzi which forms the northern
boundary is the main perennial river in the RDA; the White Umbuluzi tra-
verses only a small part of the area in the south. River tributaries only
discharge during the September - June period. A number of small dams are
located on tributaries of the Black and White Umbuluzi Rivers, the largest
on the Stokoto Stream with a capacity of 2.47 million cu. meters; however,
this dam is located at the western edge of the area, with freehold title land
downstream of the dam. Groundwater potential is thought to be moderately
good. The Department of Geological Survey has recently carried out a ground-
water survey in the area.
33.       Land Utilization and Production Pattern:  Of the estimated 4,000
hectares of arable land, 3,244 hectares are under crops and 584 fallow. Maize
is the principal crop and cotton increases in importance in the lower rainfall
areas. Table 2 shows areas under crops.
34.       Pasture and Livestock:  Vegetation is classified as dry, tall
grassveld and consists of fairly open grassland, with local concentrations of
Dichrostachys savanna woodland. Scattered trees such as Ficus spp and Sclerocarya
birrea ("umnganu") are common. The most common grasses are Hypehemnia spp,
but in the overgrazed areas shorter species such as Aristida congesta spp
barbicollis, Heterepogen contortus and Cynodon dactylon occur. The pastures
are regarded as moderately sour, with a carrying capacity (in good condition)
of approximately 1 A.U. per 3.2 hectares during the 8 month growing season.
There are an estimated 21,075 cattle in the RDA (1974 Cattle Census),
in addition to about 1,235 sheep and 9,057 goats. Present stocking rate is
estimated at 1 A.U. per 1.25 hectares. The recommended maximum stocking rate
is 8,766 A.U., as opposed to 18,587 at present. The bull-cow ratio is 1:9.5.
35.       Communications:  One main all-weather gravel road, in good condi-
tion, dissects the area, and there are three minor district roads. All are
maintained by the roads branch of PWD. The nearest rail head is Matsapa, 40 km.
from Luve.
36.       Social Services:  The RDA is served by two secondary schools.  There
are eight primary schools, with 1,321 pupils in total; five schools are run by
missions, three by the community. The 1966 census recorded 4,534 school age
children (5-19) in the area. There are three clinics, two government and one
mission. There are four small fertilizers depots.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
(iv) Mahanga-Hluti
37.       General:  Situated south of the Ngwampisi River, the RDA is bounded
by the Swaziland-South African border in the south and freehold title land in
the east and west. The RDA is divided into two portions by a narrow band of
freehold title land, and the northern portion is futher subdivided by freehold
title land. Settlement is concentrated along river valleys, with secondary
concentrations near Hluti, Sivulu plateau, and along the main Mhloshemi -
Lavumisa road.
38.       Topography:  There are two main topographic regions: Middleveld
plateau remnants bordered by steep river valleys with tributaries leading to
the Ngwavuma River in the north and the Pongola River in the south, and gently
sloping land in the east of the region leading to the Ngwavuma and Sitolo
Rivers.
39.       Climate:  The RDA is situated in the transition zone between the
Middleveld and Lowveld, with rainfall decreasing with altitude. Slope
aspect controls rainfall to a large degree. Drought hazard is greater in
the higher rainfall areas. Rainfall averages between 700 and 850 mm.
40.       Soils:  The area was surveyed at reconnaissance level (Murdoch,
1968) and three soil groups identified:
(a) Granite derived soils, generally acid, free draining loams
of poor chemical and physical fertility. Response to
fertilizer and lime applications is not always noticeable;
(b) Dolerite derived soils which consist of red, moderately
acid clay loams of good physical structure. Where drainage
is restricted, black soils of low permeability have developed;
(c) Soils derived from Ecca sandstone and shale. These have a
marked duplex profile with a slightly acid sandy top soil
overlying a dense clay pen. Some of these have been classi-
fied as "H" set and others as "Z" set soils. 1/ The "H" set
soils are lightly textured but moisture retention capacity
is good because of the dense clay sub-soil.
41.       Water Resources:  The water resources of the Ngwavuma Basin have not
been studied in detail; the only study to date was carried out by Davies
and Waller in 1972, but more detailed studies are underway as part of an
Af.D.B. supported feasibility study. The estimated net mean annual runoff at
the Kentucky Road crossing is 128.5 cusecs. However, because of downstream
commitments no run of river water is available for irrigation unless obtained
by dam storage. The other major streams are the Mantambeni, a tributary of
the Ngwavuma, and the Manziwayo and Ncotjane streams, both tributaries of the
Pongola River. The Mantambeni offers potential for irrigation given adequate
1/   Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 12
storage. Most streams emanating from the Middleveld plateaus are perennial.
No dams have been constructed in the area. Groundwater is available on the
granites, particularly where deep weathering has taken place. On the Ecca
sandstones potential aquifers are very poor due to their being broken up by
impervious dolerite dykes.
42.       Pasture and Livestock:  There are two principal types of pastures
in the RDA:
(a)  Tall grassveld, generally found above 450 meters.  The
principal grasses are HyperrherAa dissoluta, H. Filipendula,
Eragrostis recemosa and Sporobulus capensus. The pastures
are described as moderately sour; and
(b) Lower Broadleaved Savanna; the most common trees are
Pterocarpus rotundifolius, Cambretura spp, and Terminalia
sericca. The grasses are only slightly sour with the
dominant species being Panicum maximum, Themeda triandra
and Hyparrhenia spp., with Pogonarthria squarrosa as an
invasion species on overgrazed land.
Total cattle numbers are estimated at 19,590, in addition to 11,379 sheep and
goats. Present stocking rate is one A.U. per 1.45 hectares, compared with a
recommended rate of 1 A.U. per 2 hectares (total of 13,840 A.U.s). The
bull:cow ratio is estimated at 1:6.6.
43.       Communications:  Three main gravel roads serve the area; a number
of tracks are normally impassable during rainy periods. The nearest
railheads are at Piet Retief (90 km) and Lavumisa/Gollel (40 km), both in
South Africa.
44.       Social Services:  The area is well served by five secondary schools.
The 22 primary schools in or adjacent to the RDA enroll 2,504 pupils; there
are 21 mission schools, one community school and 12 government-aided s.nools
In 1966, 5,767 school age children were recorded.  Three clinics are L,cated
within or just outside the area. Hluti is the major center for the a-- -. A
main depot for inputs is under construction, and there are 5 small fertili.2r
depots.
(v) Masala-Vikizilula
45.       General:  The RDA is bounded on the South by the Usutu River, the
east by Freehold Title Land, and in the west by the Bulunga Hills. Settlemen-
is concentrated along the Bulunga hills, and the Mimneni-Mzimpofu watershed,
and around Sipofaneni-Phuzamoya.
46.       Topography:  In the west the Bulunga Hills rise to 750 m, and in the
north-east, the Vikizijula Hills rise to about 600 m. North of the Usutu
River, the landscape becomes dissected, with frequent granite tors or kopjes.



ANNEX 8
Page 13
The underlying geology consists of a grey coarse grained quartz diorite and
granodiorite in the west, which gives way to dolerite intruded sandstones and
shales in the east. The Bulunga Hills are formed by a coarse grained pluton.
47.       Climate:  The RDA falls into the western Lowveld climatic zone.
The meteorological station at Sipofaneni recorded average mean rainfall of 648
mm (1935-70). The drought hazard (number of years out of 100 the station is
likely to receive less than 500 mm and less than 750 mm) is 20% under 500 mm.
and 60% under 750 mm.
48.       Soils:  The southern half of the area has been surveyed at a
semi-detailed level by Baillie (1968) with the remaining portion only at
recor2vaissance level by Murdoch (1968). The soils reflect to a strong
degree the underlying geology. Over the grandodiorites and granites are deep
light textured sandy soils with low moisture holding properties and high
erosion risk. On the Ecca sandstones and shales, a heavy sodic solenetz-
like clay soil is fpund. Because of its very low permeability and high
sodium levels soils are regarded as unsuitable for irrigation.   Where
U1le-i,- intrudes sandstone, a relatively shallow (50 to 100 cms) black
c.y of restricted permeability has been found which is considered suitable
for irrigation and dryland cotton production. An extensive area of this
soil is found between Sipofaneni and Phuzamoya.
49.       Water Resources:  Water resources of the Usutu River were inten-
sively studied by the UNDP Usutu Basin study (UNDP 1970). The Usutu is the
only perennial river in the area, with the Mzimnene and the Mzimpofu drying
up during the dry season. A potential dam site has been identified on the
Mzimpofu River approximately 8 kms upstream from its confluence with the
Usutu River. The mean annual runoff of this river is estimated at 23,000
acre feet. On the granites and grandodiorites groundwater potential appears
to be quite good. On the sandstones, potential aquifers are broken up
by numerous dolerite dykes and groundwater in these areas is normally
brackish.
50.       Land Utilization and Production Pattern:  Despite adverse climatic
conditions, maize is the most important crop in the area; cotton is the next
most important crop, followed by groundnuts, sorghum, jugo beans and beans.
Area under individual crops is shown in Table 2.
51.       Pasture and Livestock:  Vegetation is classed as being mostly "Lower
Broadleaved Savanna" with hillside bush on the steeper slopes of the Vikizijula
and Bulunga Hills. In the lower areas to the east this merges into Acacia
savanna. The lower Broadleaved Savanna, where it has not been cultivated, is
typified by broadleaved trees such as Combretum spp, Terminalia sericea, and
Pterocarpus rotundifolus. Grasses comprise the Hyparrhenias, Panicum maximum
and Themeda triandra. Pastures are slightly sour. Overgrazing, particularly



ANNEX 8
Page 14
around Sipofaneni, has caused denudation of the grass cover and invasion of
thorn scrub. Total cattle numbers were estimated at 11,847 in 1974 in addition
to 4,296 goats and 211 sheep. Total carrying capacity has been estimated at 1
A.U. per 4 hectares; The area is, therefore, overstocked by about 4,615
A.U.s. The bull to cow ratio is 1 : 10.5.
52.       Communications:  Two district roads serve the area, the Sipofaneni -
Manzini road and the Sipofaneni - Big Bend road; both are all weather gravel
roads, with the latter scheduled for tarring in 1976. There is one further
district road. Apart from these roads, all others are merely dirt tracks,
often impassble after heavy rain. The railhead is at Phuzamoya which links
Manzini and Maputo. There are proposals to link Phuzamoya with the Gollel
(South African) railhead which is linked to Durban and Richards Bay. Telephone
links with Manzini and Big Bend are located at Sipofaneni. Daily bus services
link Vikizijula with Manzini and Big Bend.
53.       Social Services:  There are two Secondary Schools in the area; both
are Government aided Mission Schools. There are six Primary Schools, three
run by missions, and three by the community. Two clinics serve the area.
(vi) Nkambeni-Madlagampisi
54.       General:  The RDA is located in southeast Hhohho District, bounded
on the north and west by the Komati River; in the south by the Black Umbuluzi
River, and in the east, by the S.I.S. Estate. There are two Chiefdoms - the
larger under Chief Madzanga, and the smaller under Chief Nalamlela.
55.       Topography:  Three regions have been distinguished these include
hill ranges, known respectively as the Lutfotfwane Hills, the Hlobane Hills
and the Nkambeni Hills in the center of the RDA, undulating slopes to the
north and south of the hill ranges, and alluvial terraces bordering the Komati
River in the north. The terraces are considered important for their irrigation
potential.
56.       Climate:  Rainfall decreases and variabiity increases from west to
east. Mean annual rainfall at Balegane station averaged 729 m, and at Tunzin
Station 665.1. Drought hazard is 18% risk of less than 500 mm. rainfall.
57.       Soils:  Three major soil types have been identified: 1/ -
(a) Alluvial soils adjacent to the Komati River. These are B set
soils, deep, red or dark brown permeable loams of high
potential for irrigation. The brown loams have poor moisture
retention capacity but would be suitable for irrigated
citrus production. The red loams are suitable for mixed
cropping under irrigation and for dryland cotton and groundnut
production;
1/   Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 15
(b) Poorly drained clay pan soils of the N set. Texture
of the topsoil is poor and sub-soil is impermeable.
Crop yields on these soils are poor; and
(c) Grey and pink granite sands on the foothill slopes.
These soils have low moisture retention properties
but with careful management crops such as cotton,
tobacco, beans and maize will produce well.
Land has been classified according to suitability for different farming systems
as follows: -
Irrigated mixed cropping:                 1,535 hectares
Dryland mixed cropping (high potential)
Dryland mixed cropping                       73    "
(high potential but steeper slopes -
8 - 14%)
Dryland mixed cropping                  10,049    "
(medium to low potential)
Dryland mixed cropping                   2,510    "
(low potential)
Unimproved Grazing                       7,105    "
(high potential)
Unimproved Grazing                       6,430 hectares
(low potential)
Total                            27,702 hectares
58.       Water Resources:  None of the minor rivers are perennial, and are
generally dry in most years from June to September. There are a number of
small stock dams, and the potential for more exists, and four springs
have been protected for domestic purposes. Irrigation potential on the
Komati is considered significant. Exact flow statistics for the river are not
available but minor studies have been carried out at Madlangampisi, e.g.,
U.N.D.P. study (1963) and suggestions have been made that there is potential
for irrigated cotton.
59.       Land Utilization and Production Patterns:  An estimated 99% of
holdings grow maize. Cotton is the next most important crop followed by
groundnuts, sorghum and beans. In this low rainfall area either irrigated
maize or cotton, or dryland cotton and grounduts offer the best potential for
expansion. Area under individual crops is shown Table 2. Irrigated sugar cane
is grown at Sihoya, where a quasi-Government scheme operates 140 hectares. A
number of smallholders each growing approximately 1.6 hectares of sugar cane
are included in the scheme.



ANNEX 8
Page 16
60.       Pasture and Livestock:  Upper broadleaved savanna occurs on the
sandy foothill slopes around the Nkambeni Hills. Common trees include Ficus
spp and Dichrostachys spp. The most common grasses are of the Hyparrhenia
spp. These are now being replaced by shorter species due to intensive grazing
pressure. The pastures are described as moderately sour. The gentle sloping
spurs with clay pan soils give rise to lower broadleaved savanna. Where
ground has not been cultivated, trees such as Combretum spp., Terminalia
sericea (on the deep sands), and Pterocarpus rotundifolius are the most
common. Grass species include Panicum maximum, Hyparrhenias, and Themeda
triandra, and are described as only slightly sour. Pasture carrying capacity
is estimated at 1 A.U. per 4 hectares. Grazing in summer is confined to the
non-arable parts of the area. Arable blocks are generally enclosed with
thorn-tree hedges. There are no improved pastures. Total cattle numbers
were estimated at 15,950 in 1974, in addition to 5,538 goats and 460 sheep.
The bull to cow ratio is 1 to 16.6. The recommended stocking rate for the
area is 1 A.U. per 4 hectares, indicating that the area is overstocked by an
equivalent of 6,133 A.U.'s.
61.        Communications:  The RDA is served by three main gravel roads in
moderate condition.  Manzini is 67 km. from Madlagampisi.   Internal roads
are very poor. Public bus services link the RDA with Piggs Peak, Manzini,
Mhlume, and the Lomati Valley. The nearest railheads are at Mlaula on the
Swaziland railway to Maputo and Hectorspruit on the South African Rail-
way to the Witwatersrand Area.
62.        Social Services:  One secondary school (enrollment 682) serves
the RDA and eight primary schools. In 1966, there were 3,039 children of
school age (5 - 19 years) in the area. One clinic is located inside
the area at Balegane and a second across the Komati River from Sihoya.
The Balegane Clinic is a Government aided Mission Clinic and the other is a
Government Clinic. The nearest hospital is at Manzini. There is one small
fertilizer depot. There are no registered cooperatives in the area but
farmers are able to draw input supplies from the C.C.U. depot at Mayiwane or
from the co-operative shed at Endzingeni.
(vii) Sandleni-Lugolweni
63.       General:  The RDA is situated in the Hlatikulu sub-district of the
Shiselweni district, and is bounded to north and south by the Mhlatuze and
Ngwavuma rivers, with the eastern boundary closely corresponding the middleveld-
lowveld junction. The hills of Makhosini and Qolweni rise to 1086 and 1138
meters, and form small highveld enclaves. Population is fairly evenly dis-
tributed, except in the hilly districts.
64.        Topography:  Topography in the area is complex but can be broadly
subdivided as follows:
(a) The north-east uplands which reach an altitude of 1086
meters at Makosini;



ANNEX 8
Page 17
(b) The south-west uplands, centered around Qolweni Hill,
extend west to include the Lugalweni Hills. Altitude
at Qolweni Hill is 1138 meters;
(c) An area of lower country separating the above two upland
areas and running in a south-east/north-west direction.
Slopes in this area are moderate;
(d) An area of lower country in the extreme south-west of
moderate slope.
65.       Climate:  There are no meteorological stations in the RDA.  Average
annual rainfall in Hluti for the period of 1905-1970 was 829.5 mm. Drought
hazard is estimated at between 60 and 80% in the Ngwavuma valley and between
40 and 60% elsewhere of less than 500 mm. rainfall.
66.       Soils:  The area contains a variety of soil parent rocks.  The
uplands of the northeast are underlain by coarse-grained porphyritic granite
and those of the southwest by coarse grained granite with sizeable dolerite
intrusions. In the southwest the situation is complicated by the presence
of a dolerite sill, which forms the marked escarpment bordering the Lugolweni
hills on the west and south and completely encircles the Qolweni massif at
its lower limit. The lower country drained by the headwaters of the Mhlatuze,
in the northwest, is underlain by quartzites, shales, and schists. These rocks
extend eastwards into the northwestern part of the lowland belt separating the
two main hill masses (i.e., into the Upper Pongolwano valley) but are replaced
in the middle of this belt by coarse-grained granite. This in turn gives way
to undifferentiated lavas in the lowlands drained by the Ntshanini and its
tributaries, in the south-east. The lowlands of the Ngwavuma valley in the
south-west and the two valleys which separate the Lugolweni hills from the
main Qolweni massif, are underlain by coarse-grained granite like the neigh-
boring uplands. A strong correlation exists between soil type and steepness
of slope. In the rugged hill country of the north-east and south-west soils,
almost without exception, belong to the U set. 1/ Elsewhere, given moderate
slopes, a variety of soil types are found. Sizeable blocks of 0 set soils
occur throughout the lower areas and the Q and M sets are common. Small
areas of L and R set soils occur in the south-eastern corner between the
Ntshanini and Ngwavuma rivers. Other soils are of very limited extent.
67.       Water Resources:  The Mhlatuze (a tributary of the Great Usutu)
and the Ngwavuma are the largest rivers and bound the area on the north and
south respectively. The headwaters of the Mhlatuze rise in the north-western
corner of the area. The Ngwavuma is normally perennial but may cease to flow
at the end of a particularly dry year. The Ngwavuma basin is being studied
by and Af.D.B. supported feasibility study. The estimated net annual runoff
at, the Kentucky road crossing (in the south-eastern corner of the RDA) is
128.5 cusecs. Numerous small streams flow from the uplands to join one or
other of the above-mentioned rivers; the Pongolwani and Ntshanini are two
of the most important tributaries in the area.
1/   Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 18
68.       Pasture and Livestock:  Three pasture types occur within the area
with the most widespread being tall grassveld species. They are replaced by
shorter species under overgrazing and are considered moderately sour, giving
approximately eight months productive grazing. At high altitudes in the
Qolweni hills, moist tall grassveld is found. This consists of a tall,
moderately sour grassland of Hyparrhenia species, and shorter, sourer spe-
cies such as Rendlia altera. The cover is easily damaged by overgrazing
and erosion is often severe on steep, overgrazed slopes. The useful graz-
ing season extends from October to April or May. In the Ngwavuma valley,
upper broad-leaved tree savanna occurs with the most common grasses of the
Hyparrhenia species such as Aristida congesta, Aristida barbicollis (steek-
grass), Heteropogon contortus (speargrass) and Cynodon dactylon (couch
grass). Grazing is moderately sour. Total cattle numbers were estimated
at 18,128 in 1974, in addition to 10,287 sheep and goats. Grazing land in
the RDA supports an average of one A.U. per 1.9 hectares, as opposed to a
recommended stocking rate for the Middleveld of one A.U. per 2.65 hectares
of pasture land; overstocking is thus 6,420 A.U.s. The bull to cow ratio
is 1 : 7.
69.       Communications:  The western and eastern boundaries both follow
main gravel roads for part of their lengths, either of which can be used to
reach Manzini. By the western route, via Grand Valley and Sidvokodvo, the
center of the area is 100 kilometers from Manzini. By the eastern route, via
Sithobela and Sipofaneni, Manzini is 118 kms distant. Another main gravel
road crosses the area from west to east, dividing it into two more or less
equal halves and linking the above-mentioned routes. Main gravel roads
also link the area with Hlatikulu (24 kms from the western boundary); and
the South African border at Onverwacht (24 kms from Kentucky bridge, in the
south-eastern corner of the area). A district road links the north-western
part of the area with the Sithobela - Madubeni RDA.
70.       Social Services:  There were 13 primary schools in the RDA in 1972,
with a total enrollment of 1,530 pupils. Several other primary schools lie
just outside the boundaries. There are secondary schools inside the area at
Ntshanini and Newhaven. There is a government aided Mission clinic at New-
haven and a government clinic on the south-eastern edge of the RDA. The
nearest hospital is at Hlatikulu. There is one main input depot and two small
fertilizer depots.
(viii) Siphofaneni - Maphobeni
71.       General:  The RDA is situated in the Western Lowveld, south of
the Great Usutu River and to the east of the Sinceni Hills. The nearest urban
center is Sipofaneni-Phuzamoyo, located just north of the Usutu River. Manzini
is 48 kms. to the northwest, Big Bend 25 kms. to the east and Sitobela 25 kms.
to the south. Three Chiefdoms under Chiefs Hhabela Shongwe, Madelenya Camede
and Mhau Ngeampalala are found within the RDA. Population is concentrated
along three main axes: the Usutu River, the Mhlatuzane River, and along the
main Siphofaneni-Sitobela road.



ANNEX 8
Page 19
72.       Topography:  Four topographic regions can be distinguished:
(a) Alluvial flats along the Usutu River with well drained
soils of the "L" and "W"' sets,
(b) A Dolerite Bovane Ridge south-east of the Usutu which is
rock and boulder strewn.
(c) The Lenono Platform, a dissected plateau more than 300
meters a.s.l.;
(d) Central Valleys and rises in the eastern part of the area
with slopes of between 3 and 10%.
73.       Climate:  Rainfall in the RDA increases from east to west, as
demonstrated by two rainfall stations, at Siphofaneni and St. Phillips, where
average rainfall is recorded at 696 mm and 605 mm respectively. Rainfall
variability is quite marked within the area. Low and variable rainfall and
high evaporation rates mean that rainfed cropping has low potential. Drought
hazard is 20-32% chance of less than 500 mm. rainfall.
74.       Soils:  A semi-detailed soil survey of the area was carried out by
Murdoch and Andriesse (1964). In addition, a detailed survey of the irrigable
area near the Usutu River was undertaken by Loxton (U.N.D.P. 1970). The soils
reflect to a marked degree the underlying geology. The area is underlain by
the Ecca sandstones and shales, which have been injected by numerous dolerite
dykes and sills. The Ecca sediments give rise to duplex and solonetz-like
soils, whose essential characteristics are a light textured topsoil underlain
by a heavy and often sodic clay pan. The non-sodic claypan soil has a deeper
sandy topsoil, with a mottled sandy clay subsoil. Possibly because of its
ease of cultivation and its moisture retention properties, this soil has been
extensively used for rainfed cropping in the area. The sodic claypan soil, on
the other hand, has only a thin light textured topsoil, overlying a non-mottled
grey and often sodic subsoil. Soils overlying the dolerite sills are red,
brown and black clays. All are well supplied with nutrients, but the black
clays present problems of drainage and ease of cultivation. However, because
of their moderately high clay contents, they have good moisture holding
capacities. On the steeper slopes, shallow grey sandy loams and shallow red
clay loams are found. The shallow grey soils have little potential for
cropping, but the shallow red clay loams can be used where the underlying
dolerite has been weathered sufficiently to provide a rooting medium.
75.       Water Resources:  The water resources of the Maphobeni Area (includ-
ing the Usutu River) have been intensively studied by the U.N.D.P. Usutu
Basin Study (1970). The Usutu is the only perennial river in the area, with
the Mhlatuzane drying up periodically. Because of the numerous dolerite
dykes and sills which break up the sandstones, groundwater reserves are very
poor and often brackish. A number of small stock watering dams have been
built on the smaller streams. Recent studies have shown that even small dams
(5 to 7 m dam walls) cost in the region of E.20,000 and are now only located
where water is required for dip tanks.



ANNEX 8
Page 20
76.       Land Utilization and Production Patterns:  An estimated 99% of
holdings grow maize. Cotton is the next most important crop, followed by
pumpkin (undersown with maize), groundnuts, sorghum, jugo-beans and beans.
Area under individual crops are shown in Table 2.
77.       Pasture and Livestock:  Four types of pasture have been recognized
in the area. The first is found on the rocky and bouldery ground of the
Bovane Ridge and the granite residuals to the west; grass is thin or non-
existent, and aloes predominate. The second is found on the deep granite
sands in the western part of the area; Eragrostis superba, Digitaria smutsii,
and Panicum maximum are the most common grasses, but Aristida barbicollis and
Cynodon dactylon invade where there has been overgrazing and indiscriminate
burning. Basal cover is very low, (40%), and the pastures are said to be
slightly sour. On the duplex soils of the "H" and "Z" sets the common grasses
are similar to the granite sands plus Seteria Sphacelata and sometimes Themeda
triandra. Invasion species on overgrazed lands include Sporobolus pyramidalis
and Pogonarthria squarrose. These soils and pastures are extremely sus-
ceptible to erosion along cattle tracks and around dipping tanks. The fourth
pasture type occurs on the dolerite soils, and Themeda triandra, Panicum
maximum, and Eragrostis superba provide sweet grazing. Total cattle numbers
were estimated at 9,761 in 1974, in addition to 4,898 goats and 286 sheep.
Pastures at present carry one A.U. per 2.5 hectares as opposed to a recom-
mended carrying capacity of approximately 1 A.U. per 4 hectares.  The bull
cow ratio stands at I : 15.
78.       Communications:  The area is served by two district roads of good
standard all-weather gravel. Apart from these roads, all others are merely
dirt tracks, often impassable after heavy rain. The nearest rail head is at
Phuzomoyo 7 kms west of Sipofaneni which links Manzini and Maputo. There
are at present preliminary plans to link Phuzamoyo with the South African
rail system at Lavumisa, which would give direct access to Richards Bay and
Durban. Telephone links with Manzini and Big Bend are found at Siphofaneni
and Sinceni. Daily bus services link Mapobeni and Sipofaneni with Big Bend
and Manzini.
79.       Social Services:  There is only one primary school in the RDA with
teaching to Standard 2, for 40 pupils. The nearest Secondary Schools are
found at Sinceni, St. Phillips, and Phcnjwane. The 1966 census indicted
1,085 children of school age (5 to 19 years). Although there are no clinics
in the area, three are located just outside the boundaries, at Siphofaneni
(Government), Sinceni (Government), and St. Phillips (Government Aided-
Mission). One input depot is under construction and one society is registered
in the area.
(ix) Siphocosini-Motshane.
80.       General:  The RDA includes two separate areas of land situated
west of Mbabane. The two blocks - Motshane to the north and Siphocosini
to the south - are separated from each other by an east-west corridor, still



ANNEX 8
Page 21
under private ownership. The eastern boundary of Motshane is 10 kilometers
from Mbabane. The area includes parts of the following Chiefdoms: Luvuno,
Mpetsambalo, Zembe, Mvandazi, Mhau, and Mnt. Lutho. In Sipocosini the popu-
lation is concentrated in the south-eastern corner, particularly on a belt of
relatively low land on the right bank of the Little Usutu River. Elsewhere
population is thinly scattered. In Motshane an east-west trending belt of
relatively dense population occurs in the north, where steep hills fall to
meet the lowlands of the Motshane valley. Elsewhere the population is thinly
scattered.
81.       Topography:  The central and southern parts of Motshane consist of
rugged hill country rising to 1,662 meters at Nduma. The highest altitudes
occur along the northern edge of this upland, and the steepest slopes occur
where it drops away to the Motshane valley in the north and west. In the
southern part of the upland zone slopes are gentler and valleys more open.
This region is drained southwards to the Motshane River by the Mtambene River
and its tributaries. The Sipocosini section extends south-eastwards along
the valley of the Little Usutu River for a distance of 26 km. The area
includes variable-sized blocks of upland to the north and south of the River.
In the upper, middle and lower parts of the valley there are considerable
areas of open, relatively gentle sloping country.
82.       Climate:  The RDA receives most rainfall in summer.  There are no
rainfall recording stations inside the area but two lie just outside - Oshoek
to the north west (average 968 mm. p.a.) and Mbabane to the east (average
1,377 mm p.a.). Variations in altitude, aspect and relief within the area
cause significant variation in annual rainfall.
83.       Soils:  1/  The soils of the Motshane area were surveyed and mapped
by Murdoch as part of the National Soil Reconnaissance (1963-68). In the
lowlands of the Motshane valley, the soil parent rock consists of serpen-
tinites and talc-chlorite schist, with an area of mixed metamorphic rocks
in the extreme west. In the hill country of the center, east and south,
the parent rock is coarse grained granite. U set soils are the most common
type on the uplands, although in the south center (in the vicinity of the
Mtambeni and its tributaries) there is a sizeable area of mixed soils,
mainly of the N, JH, 0, ZH, SH, TH, A and CH sets. In the lowlands of the
Motshane valley a variety of soils has developed on the serpentinite and
metamorphic parent rocks. Along the river itself and its tributaries I set
soils occur in long narrow strips. In the northern part of the area these
are backed by G set soils on the gentle lower slopes, with N set soils tak-
ing over where the slopes steepen towards the upland to the south. In the
western part of the lowland the I set soils are backed by a narrow strip of
A set, and again N set soils form a broad band on the intermediate slopes
between upland and lowland. Other soils occurring in the lowland areas
include JH, ZH and M sets. There are three types of parent rock in the
Sipocosini area - coarse-grained granite in the south-east, gabbro in the
1/ Appendix 1.



ANNEX 8
Page 22
center, and mixed metamorphics in the north-west. Granite outcrops are found
in the north-western corner. There is little correlation between soil type
and parent rock. The blocks of hill country are underlain by both gabbro and
granite, where U set soils predominate within a few small patches of 0 and N
sets. On the more gently sloping, lower lying ground in the Little Usutu
valley a greater variety of soils occurs. Of particular importance is the
relatively large area of M set and N set soils around Sipocosini itself, in
the south-eastern corner of the area. Further up the valley the M set is
less common. In Sigangeni district (near the center of the area) soils
belong mainly to the N, TH, M, SH, and I sets. In the part of the valley
adjacent to the international boundary the SH, 0, A, N, Q and TH sets are
the most common. A land capability map is available for the area.
84.       Water Resources:  In Motshane, from the highest land (in the
center of the area) streams radiate outwards in all directions. Those
flowing north, west and south are tributary to the Motshane, which is the
largest river. The Motshane enters the area on the northern boundary and
flows in an arc around the central upland - westwards, southwards then
eastwards. The Motshane and its main tributaries (the most notable being
the Mtambani-Amanzimnyama) are perennial. The Little Usutu River flows
through the Sipocosini area from north-west to south-east and dominates
the drainage. Immediately below the confluence with the Motshane the mean
annual flow of the Little Usutu is 137,000 acre-feet, and immediately above
the flow is 72,000 acre-feet.
85.       Land Utilization and Production Patterns:  An estimated 98% of
holdings grow maize, with other important crops being potatoes, beans and
groundnuts. Potential for expansion of the potato acreage is significant.
Area under different crops are shown in Table 2.
86.       Pasture and Livestock:  Two main pasture types occur within the RDA.
"Mountain sourveld" is found on the higher hills in central and eastern
Motshane and on hills in the extreme south-eastern corner of Sipocosini, where
the rainfall exceeds about 1,270 mm a year; here is found open, short, very
sour grassland. The grasses provide palatable and productive grazing only
during the period September to March. Pioneer species invade with overgrazing
but the cover is not easily destroyed. Themeda triandra (Rooigras) is normally
dominant, but with heavy grazing it is replaced by such species such as
Eragrostis plana and Sporobolus capensis. Elsewhere (over the greater part of
the area) the pasture is "high land sourveld". This is very similar to
mountain sourveld, an open fairly short grassland, dominated by Themeda
Triandra where it has not been overgrazed. Grass cover tends to be slightly
less dense than in the previous type. This pasture is also sour, providing
useful grazing only during summer. Total cattle numbers were estimated at
6,461 in 1974, in addition to 3,153 goats and 600 sheep. Grazing land in
the RDA supports an average of one A.U. per 2.8 hectares, opposed to a recom-
mended stocking rate of one A.U. to 1 - 1.8 hectares; on average the area is
not overstocked. The bull to cow ratio is 1 to 8.



ANNEX 8
Page 23
87.       Communications:  The Motshane area is crossed by the main tar road
linking Mbabane with the Republic of South Africa via the Oshoek border post.
The eastern boundary is 10 kms from Mbabane, and the northern boundary 6
kms from Oshoek. The all-weather gravel road to Piggs Peak (now being
tarred) branches off the Mbabane-Oshoek road within the area. Motshane
is linked to Sipocosini by a track which is at present being upgraded to
district road status. The lbabane-Mhlambanyathi road is a main gravel
road and crosses the south-eastern corner of the Sipocosini section. The
terminus of the railway is just outside the northern boundary of Motshane,
and the line crosses the south-western corner of this area and the south-
eastern part of Sipocosini. Mgwili station lies within the Motshane section
and Siphoco station within the Sipocosini section. Electricity transmission
lines linking Mbabane with the Kadake iron ore mine cross the north-eastern
corner of Motshane, and lines linking Mbabane with Mhlambanyathi cross the
south eastern part of Sipocosini.
88.       Social Services:  Only one Primary School lies inside the Motshane
section but others are close to the boundaries of the RDA. There is a
Secondary School at Motshane itself, and Waterford School is just outside
the area to the southeast.  There are four Secondary Schools in Mbabane.
The nearest medical facilities to Motshane are in Mbabane, where a wide
variety of health services is available including a Government Hospital,
private clinic, private doctors, private dentist and an Oxfam Nutrition Unit.
The nearest medical facilities to Sipocosini are at Mhlambanyathi where the
Usutu Pulp Company runs a clinic with a doctor. The British Red Cross Society
also has a center here. There is a main input depot and one small fertilizer
depot.
(x) Sithobela - Madubeni.
89.       General:  The RDA, situated south of Siphofaneni on the western edge
of the Lubombo District, is bounded by the Mhlatuzane and Mhlatuze Rivers,
which flow parallel to one another in a north-easterly direction to join the
Great Usutu. Only a very small part adjacent to the south-western boundary
lies above 460 meters. Sithobela, which is more or less in the middle of the
area, is 27 kms south of Siphofaneni, the nearest center, and 75 kms from
Manzini. Sipofaneni is on the railway line. The area includes parts of the
following Chiefdoms - Mbelebeleni, Ngobelweni, Kamkoke. Compared to Swazi
Nation land elsewhere, the area is thinly populated. Slightly higher densi-
ties occur around Sithobela, and along the road linking Sithobela with Kubuta,
but there are large areas devoid of population - notably the hills on the
southern boundary of Mbhoke District, and the country to the east of the
Sithobela-Siphofaneni Road.
90.       Topography:  The RDA covers part of the interfluve between the
Mhlatuzane and Mhlatuze Rivers, from the mail watershed the land slopes
gently downwards on either side into numerous small valleys which are
tributary to the main rivers. In the south-western part of the area the



ANNEX 8
Page 24
interfluve is subdivided into northern and southern halves by the MItimpili
river, a major left bank tributary of the Mhlatuze. The northern half
include& Sitobela Hill, an isolated sharp-crested ridge rising to 523
meters. The southern watershed follows the crest of a narrow, steep-
sided ridge on the south-western boundary which rises 708 meters, and
forms the only substantial hill country in the area.
91.       Climate:  There are no rainfall recording stations inside the
area, but records are available for Siphofaneni, 15 kms outside the northern
boundary, where mean annual rainfall is 648 mm.
92.       Soils:  The soils of the area have been surveyed and mapped at the
semi-detailed level by Murdoch and Andriesse between 1955 and 1968. In the
north-eastern part of the area the parent rock consists of sandstone, coal
and carbonacous shale of the Ecca Series, with large, irregularly shaped
intrusions of dolerite and granodiorite. A few kilometers to the east of
Sithobela a sharp change occurs along a north-south line (thought to be a
fault-line). To the west of this line the rocks are mainly granodioritic
gneiss and biotite-hornblende gneisses, with relatively small dolerite
intrusions and a number of north-west - south-east trending diabase dykes
one of which forms the spine of Sithobela Hill. In the extreme south the
hills of the Mbhoke District are based upon quartzite and shale, phyllite
and sericitic schist of the Mozaan Series. U set soils cover the hills ad-
jacent to the southern boundary and the high ground around Sitobela Hill.
The 0 set is common, occurring where slopes steepen as the land falls to
the Mhlatuzane and Mhlatuze Rivers and their main tributaries. The ZL set
is confined to the outcrop of Ecca strata in the north-east, where it and
the H set are the two most widespread types. Smaller patches of good arable
soils (L & R sets) occur particularly in the north-eastern half of the area.
Blocks of the SL and G sets are scattered throughout.
93.       Water Resources:  The M4hlatuzane and Mhlatuze are the main rivers
of the area, and bound it on the north-west and south-east respectively.
They are both tributary to the Great Usutu. Numerous small tributaries of
these two rivers rise inside the RDA, with the Mtimpili tributary being the
most important.
94.       Pasture and Livestock:  Pastures belong to the Lower Broadleaved
Tree Savanna category. Except where cleared for cultivation, the vegetation
is a savanna, typified by broad-leaved trees such as Combretum spp., Terminalia
sericea, and Pterocarpus rotundifolius, and tall grasses such as the Hyparrhenias
Panicum maximum (Lubabe) and Themeda triandra.  This pasture is only slightly
sour and provides palatable and productive grazing for most of the dry season.
In common with other Lowveld pasture types, it is sensitive to overgrazing
and can be replaced by dense bush if mismanaged. Total cattle numbers were
estimated at 22,136 in 1974, in addition to 13,932 goats and 598 sheep.
Grazing land in the RDA supports an average of one A.U. per 1.7 hectares; the
recommended stocking rate for lowveld pastures is one A.U. to 4 - 5 hectares
throughout the year, so that the area is overstocked by 10,400 A.U.'s. The
bull to cow ratio is 1 to 14.



ANNEX 8
Page 25
95.       Communications:  Two gravel roads link the area with Manzini - one
via Siphofaneni and the other via Kubuta and Sidvokadvo. Gravel roads also
link the area with Big Bend and with the Onverwacht Border post in South
Africa. Siphofaneni is on the railway line and there is an airstrip at
Kubuta outside the western boundary of the area.
96.       Social Services:  There were four primary schools within the RDA
in 1974, and several other primary schools lie close to the boundaries. There
is a Secondary School at Singceni, a few kilometers outside the northern
boundary and a Government aided Mission clinic at St. Phillips.
C. Rural Development Areas Financed by ODM
97.       Table 3 summarizes the principal characteristics of Rural Develop-
ment areas supported by ODM-financing. The location of areas are shown
on the map. There are four functioning RDA's: Northern, Southern, Central,
and Mahlangatsha, while four extensions have been delineated. Total area
of of the 8 RDA's is about 64,000 hectares, and total population 32,000.



C. .tpEt  1  --800.d 00-l.-.R -   -1       veo   IotAr,.
E686.bN-2RMEj.,R      261R.Eo.             -In.d &        10075            5333          532.            98.580            8,059           90.M2           277               ,904              2.7,5.0                                 1,402              21              22                                        1               03
L.Ob2*,                           8644
EID)1.-Z.24..           R80..R.-.1        ,Uddl-,Nd        846.12203        S5E         14.3-22.~2        2982              5,91400                          4  0             ,:4S3             2.4                  13271.2                                1               I                              
(REE)USRE2R-X2Rb.     88.R.R..E-           8R1OEld          30075            7.          15.2-26.           27T2              481             2,2             24154      1      ,70232957220                                                                 2                                               
~~EN)ah..-fluRR  Nin.E.8a.Ev.       NRdE1n.El         38078            TEE             3..            2,453            4,770           27,685          27.779           2.9                3 .2                 19041.153                             ES               2                                        3               21
(,)2.RN-VERR.E$E.  -R,t...RME       Loro-Id          181030           64           2..9.2.          82.25              2,439           20.1             4.2               END              3.6                 20.R249                                 4               2                                                                            I
mwt    .C                                                                     729
(,E1p1E-Q.En..2   luo.-E.8.R,.        NRENV.4 I 1      330-8130         825         13.5.23.5          38, 350           52,237          32,7213         27,520           2,5               4.                   2700               3,970               22              S1                   0                   0.              I
(YIEE~2b2f,E.iS020..E  828-00.N.E..    L2-.d            200400           00          18.5.26. 5        24.03              277            22,591            5,075            750              3.8                     75,5              343                                                                                 
(h)I0..NhIaR.IbR...  .RRN..R..       8600080d         002600          N6            2..2.             10,008            1.945           27, 125          7.655           2.052.                                  909                  300               6               I                   N                    2N 
2,377
(zSRE.A,.R        2..R...E.            OSSR             23.00            84          1.5282             0.67             4.22            3426             ION             2,903.-2,98d02Il3 32N 
1'R8   2   17



SWAZIIAND                                                                 ANNEX 8
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                          Table 2
Cropping Pattern in Proposed RDA's 1/
Rural Development Area              Area Under Crops (ha)
Maize    Cotton        Groundnuts      Beans       Sor4hum          Tobacco              Other               Total
(i)    Lubombo-Mpolonjeni       45T          461               453         79          -                                     496               6,31
(ii)   Mahamba-Zombodze          3,?84       -                 321         140         -                   23                468               4,736
(iii)  Bekinkosi-Mliba          2,511         49               107         120            55
(iv)   Mahange-Hluti            3,358         71               184         150                             24                287               4,074
(v)    Masalo-Vikisijula        1,325        211                94          41          _                                    215               1,886
~~~ ~~239                       2,085
(vi)   Nkambeni-Madlagampisi   1,471         229                104         42                             692398                               2,57
(vii)  Shndleni-Qolweni         3,625         23                320        137
(-viii) Siphofaneni=Mapebeni    1,466        234                104         46           102                                 135                2,087
(ix)   Sipocosini-Motshane       1,290        -                  60         3165                                                                1,548
(x)    Sithobel-Madubeni       2-342         257               159         70                                                357               3,185
TOTAL               25,994      1,535             1,906         858           157              116              3,334               33,900
1/   Data based on 1971-72 Agricultural Census and Ministry of Agriculture Estimates.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 3
S WATZ L' AND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ODM-Finnced  Rural Development Areas
------------------------______ -Area & Population ----------------------------    ___________________________________ Staffing    --
Rural Development Areas            Total Area    Arable Area    Gracing Area    Populatio           Pailies/ometeads    Project Manager   niflrer              tA nainn flfficir Livestock Officer    Field Officer 2/               Other 3/
ha                                NumberLietcOfie                                                                                                        il ffa   /              thr/
Current RDA's
(i)     Northern                   14,571             5,300          9,271            14,700                 1,430                   IE             IE       IE  9P                         1E                        5E             3E  IP
(ii)    Southern                   11,251             3,129          8,122             4,790                    643                  IP             IP       1E  5P                         IE                        IE             2E  2P
(iii)   Central                    18,991             4,591         14,400             9,877                 1,411                   IE             IE       IE  4P                         IP                        3E             3E  IP
(iv)    Matlangatcha               22.510             3.330         19,180             5.500                   573                  1E              IE       IE  4P                         IE                        2E             2E  2P
Sub-Total            67,323            16,350         50,973            34,867                 4.057              3E IP           3E  IP       3E  IP                     3E  IP                       IIE            IOE  6P
Proposed RDA's
(v)     Mayivane - Herefords       26,300             6,300         20,000            13,900                 1,800                 -                IP           8P                         IP                         _                 4P
(vi)    Mponono-Veleziaweni        32,775             5,260         27,515            16,650                 1,634                  IP              IP           8P                         IP                         -                 4P
(vii)   Madulini Mahlaleni           6,596            2,500          4,096             5,014                   679                 _                IP           4P                         IP                         -                 4P
(viii)  Ebulandzeni                  5.787            1.030          4_757             1.80                    260                                  IP           IP                         IF                                           2
Sub-Total            71,458            15,090         56,368            3 M                    4373I                                  4P          21P                         4                                           2P14P
mTAL                       138,781            31,440        107,341            72_231                 8,430             3E  2P          3E  5P       4E 43P                    3E  SF                         IIE          10E 20P
l/ E- Existing
P- Proposed or Vacant Posts
2/ AEO's would eventually replace all FO's.
3/ Cooperative Officers,Mechanization Officers, Domestic Science Demonstrators, Grain Storage Officers.
SOURCE! Ministry of Agriculture
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soil Classification
V.   The following are soil classifications referred to in this Report, based
on studies by G. Murdoch 1/:
(i)  A set soils are deep yellow loams, very acid, with imperfect
drainage. They are rated fair for dryland crop growing.
(ii)  G set soils are grey sandy loams resting on buried hard
iron concretions or a cemented iron pan. Beneath the pan,
which is of variable thickness, soils are usually mottled
and of heavy or medium texture. They are rated poor for
dryland crop growing.
(iii)  I set soils are marsh soils, ranging texturally from sand
to clay, mottled, and sometimes possessing a dark humic
top. Due to waterlogging they are rated unfit for dryland
crop growing.
(iv)  M set soils are deep red and orange loams (usually much
more than 300 cms. to hard rock) with moderate to low
humus content, well drained, and with few or no weatherable
minerals. They are rated good for dryland crop growing.
(v)  0 set soils are shallow (often less than 40 cms) and
siliceous, light in texture, low in humus and rapid
draining. They are underlain by hard rock and rated
poor for dryland crop growing.
(vi)   Soils belonging to the Q set are deep (more than 120 cms).
The texture is generally a gravelly loam though the top
30-40 cms. may be almost gravel-free. They are rather low
in humus, rapid draining and rated fair for dryland crop
growing.
(vii)  In the U set  more than 15% of the land surface (and often
more than 40%) consists of rock outcrops and/or boulder-
strewn ground. Soil occurs in small pockets and is mostly
thin, acid and mineral in nature. They are rated unfit
for dryland crop growing.
(viii)  JH set soils are grey loams lying on thick stone lines at
about 30 to 60 cms depth. Drainage is slightly impaired
and the soil is rated poor for dryland crop growing.
I/   G. Murdoch, Soils and Land Capability in Swaziland (Swaziland:  Ministry
of Agriculture, 1968).



ANNEX 8
Appendix I
Page 2
(ix) L set soils are usually deep, medium textured, slightly
acid and moderately permeable. They are rated good for
dryland crop growing.
(x) R set soils are dark red, heavy textured, slighly acid,
and moderately permeable. They are rated good for
dryland crop growing.
(xi) ZL soils consist of a dark grey sandy loam lying on
clay pan. They may be saline and are generally poorly
drained. They are rated poor for dryland crop growing.
(xii) H set soils consist of a grey sandy loam resting on
mottled clay pan. They are poorly drained and rated
poor for dryland crop growing.
(xiii)  The SL set consists of very shallow soils, rarely more
than 40 cms to weathering parent material and the same
thickness again to unaltered rock. They are medium to
heavy textured, well drained, often gravelly and rich in
weatherable minerals. They are rated poor for dryland
crop growing.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Social Services
A. Rural Health
1.        The general standard of health care available in Swaziland's rural
areas is low, and medical facilities are seriously deficient. Prior to
Independence, clinics were operated only by the Swazi Nation and the Nazarene
Church. Death rate and life expectancy statistics indicate the magnitude
of the problem: in 1966, the crude death rate for the country was 20 per
thousand head of the population, and the life expectancy only 44 years. The
Government has made a significant effort in recent years to improve health
care; 37 clinics are operating, with emphasis on curative medicine. Clinics
normally have 2 nurses.
2.        Principal disease problems are respiratory (TB) and gastro-intes-
tinal diseases, bilharzia, and malnutrition. An estimated 70% of the school
age population has bilharzia. Diseases such as bilharzia, gastro-enteritis,
typhoid and tapeworm infection are largely attributed to the inadequacy or
absence of hygienic water supplies and safe methods of human waste disposal.
A National Rural Environmental Health Program has been instituted to educate
and assist rural communities to improve water and sanitation facilities.
Health education programs are conducted at Health Centers and Clinics and a
hygiene component is being included in the curricula of an increasing number
of schools. Family planning advice is available at all rural Health Centers
and Clinics.
3.        Disease control units are centered at Manzini with the emphasis
focused on control of tuberculosis, malaria, and bilharzia. Other disease
control activities include a national measles and polio vaccination campaign.
A Mobile Eye Clinic visits all clinics, health centers and hospitals in the
country. An objective in future is to develop visiting health services to
extend health care to a greater part of the rural population.
4.        Basic education in nutrition is provided by the Ministry of Health
through Rural Health Clinics and by the Home Economics Section of the Ministry
of Agriculture working through 177 Women's Associations with a total member-
ship of 6000 persons.
5.        To improve the present situation, the Ministry of Health outlined
the following three major objectives of a rural health program in the Second
National Development Plan (1973):-



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(i) Improvement of the overall standards of health by reducing
water borne diseases and diseases of insanitation in the
rural areas;
(ii) Maintenance and improvement of curative services available
to the rural populace;
(iii) Reduction of the national birth rate (which at present
stands as one of the highest in the world).
6.        Increased coverage of health services in the rural areas would be
achieved by:
(i) construction and staffing of new rural clinics;
(ii) improved staffing of existing clinics;
(iii) construction of 4 Rural Health Centers.
ODM has provided financial assistance for construction of clinics and health
centers.
7.        To achieve a lowering of the birth rate, the Ministry has recently
started a Family Planning Program, assisted by the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA). The Cabinet has approved the national plan,
although the SNC were negative. Initially 8 trained Mother and Child Care and
Family Planning (MCH/CP) nurses will be assigned to the 4 districts of Swaziland,
and the program will be expanded as more staff become available. Birth
control pills and devices will be sold at subsidised prices. The permission
of the husband was formerly required for contraceptives for women, but this
has been discontinued.
8.        At present the constraints on expanding and improving health ser-
vices to the rural population are a lack of trained staff and limited funds
to cover recurring expenditures. Regarding staff, the Government (with as-
sistance from the U.S.) is establishing a multipurpose health training cen-
ter, which will aim at producing 20 nurses per year. These nurses, trained
in mid-wifery and medical and surgical nursing, are the backbone of the
rural health program. By 1980 staffing problems should begin to ease.
9.        Regarding recurrent expenditures, health services in the rural areas
are heavily subsidised and although a small fee is charged per consultation
(E.20 per visit) it is not realistic to expect a rapid increase of these
fees.
10.       Within the proposed RDA  areas, there is a need for two Rural
Clinics (in Mpolonjeni and Nkonjane respectively) and minor additions to
a Rural Clinic financed by the US at Zombodze. All these clinics would
be constructed at the Project Development Center compounds. An integral
part of these clinics would be a section which would actively propagate
family planning measures. The Ministry of Health would be responsible for
staffing and recurring expenditures.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
B.   Rural Education
11.       Enrollments in both primary and secondary schools in Swaziland have
increased substantially in recent years, with the average growth rate for
primary institutions 6.4% per annum and secondary institutions 15.5X
per annum since 1962. Despite this, only 60% of those in the 7-13 years age
bracket and 30% of those in the 14-18 year bracket were enrolled in educa-
tional institutions at the beginning of 1975. Failure and resignation rates
during most years are reported as being high, while the standard of education
is generally poor in most rural areas. The Government's objective is to
provide sufficient primary schools for all school age children within ten
years; SIDA is assisting in this program. There are now about 420 primary
schools in Swaziland.
12.       The main educational objective of the Government at present is
to provide adequate schools and teachers and to make curricula more relevant.
Funds are being channeled into schools large enough to make full use of
additional resources, with the insistence that the respective communities
contribute as fully as possible to augment any Government assistance made
available. A school garden scheme now operates in 200 primary schools - the
aim being to increase the rural bias in the education of younger children.
13.       Problems at the secondary school level are similar with respect to
high failure and resignation rates, unsuitable school curricula and poorly
qualified staff. At junior levels the agriculture component of the curriculum
will be increased and greater emphasis will be given to craft subjects and
home economics training.
14.       Adult education in the rural areas has received greater attention
in recent years. The basic aims are:
(i) To raise the standard of functional literacy and
(ii) To raise receptivity levels for technical advice and
training.
The literacy program is being implemented through a National Adult Literacy
Campaign organized by a National Literacy Board. The program involves more
than 700 literacy classes per annum, each on a part time basis for a period
of 100 hours. Full use is being made of schools, work places, markets and
other community buildings. Communities have been encouraged to organize
their own classes.
15.       The second major component of the adult education program involves
training and advice in such fields as agriculture, home economics, health
etc. Pilot Community Learning Centers (Rural Education Centers) are to be
established for this purpose near or in some of the Rural Development Areas
under an IDA financed education project. Initially seven Centers are to be
established, namely at Big Bend, Dvokolwako, Ekuphakameni (Mahlangatsha
R.D.A.), Elulakeni, Entfonjeni (Northern R.D.A.), Ngwane and Vuvulane.
Each center will be based in or near a Junior Secondary School.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
16.       Because of the inter-ministerial approach to education in the rural
areas the Rural Development Committee (a sub-Committee of the Cabinet) has
assumed responsibility for guiding the organization of the Community Learning
Centers. At each Center a lower Co-ordinating committee comprised of represen-
tatives from the Ministries of Education, Agriculture, Health and Local
Administration and the Sebenta Training Institute will organize teaching
activities.
September 12, 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Agricultural Production Estimates
Approach to Analysis of Production
1.        During preparation of the proposed Project, Ministry of Agricul-
ture staff utilized a "management-oriented approach" for the analysis of
production costs and benefits in Project RDA's (para. 4). Technical para-
meters for each crop and each region were developed on the basis of research
results and experience in current Rural Development Areas. A computer program
was then devised which analyzed current and projected production in each
RDA, likely credit uptake, and "average" farm budgets. Programs were also
prepared to calculate herd projections for each RDA. The result was develop-
ment of detailed estimates of expected production under the Project, for each
year and for each RDA.
2.        The preparation report recognized that calculation of crop production
costs and benefits in Project RDA's is complicated by the number of variables
involved, which include: (i) significant differences in ecology among RDA's;
(ii) variation in individual crop input/output levels with the level of devel-
opment of farmers; (iii) variation in hectares devoted to individual crops
with the number of field officers involved in an area and the number of hec-
tares presently devoted to the crop; and (iv) differences in credit utiliza-
tion according to the type of crop and level of inputs applied.
3.         The mission concluded further that available data on current crop
production is poor, and most is based on 1970-71 sample surveys whose reliability
is questionable. Assumptions on progressive development of each crop are
problematic since they are not based on actual experience (reliable data is
not available) but on generally subjective criteria. Assumptions on credit
up-take are particularly uncertain. Finally, so many investments, Government
services, and price factors contribute to changes in farming patterns that it
is difficult to attribute changes specifically to one project. Nevertheless,
estimates of Project production should prove a useful guide for Project
management staff - the purpose for which they were primarily designed - and
should provide a data base which should serve a useful frame of reference for
subsequent Project monitoring and evaluation.
The "Management Oriented Approach" - Principal Assumptions I/
4.        The principal assumptions underlying the approach used to estimate
production in Project RDA's are summarized below:
1/   Based on "The Estimation of Crop Production Costs and Benefits in
Swaziland Rural Development Projects", Ministry of Agriculture, 1976.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
(a) Estimation of farm production costs and returns in
rural development project documents is often very
impressionistic, because of lack of detailed infor-
mation on present and future farming, and because of
complexities of calculations required where a number
of crops in different environments are considered;
(b) Village, farm or crop models are normally presented,
then extrapolated for the overall project; these are
necessarily impressionistic and, although adequate
for overall estimation of project benefits, can be of
limited relevance to project managers who must work
with specific areas having a certain ecology, cropping
pattern, and extension force;
(c) Therefore, an alternative approach was adopted for the
Project, including use of a computer program to adopt
a less impressionistic and more management oriented
approach;
(d) The approach relates expected production increases
to numbers of extension workers, farmers per extension
worker, extension programs, and estimated pre-develop-
ment areas under crops. Increases in area under crops
is assumed to be a function of the above factors;
(e) Data required includes: existing cropping pattern and
level of inputs used, crop uptake rates, input/output
data, and cost information.
Crop Production - Summary
5.        Increases of production were assumed to result less from
increases in acreage than from higher yields as a result of the use of
improved seed, fertilizer, storage, and better management. Hybrid maize
would replace part of the present maize acreage, and because of higher
yields would release some land for cash crops such as tobacco and cotton.
Further increases in production could result from irrigated production of
rice and vegetables.
6.        Crop margins:  Crop margins under Project conditions are estimated
as follows; prices are 1975-76 prevailing prices, which are close to farm-
gate prices:



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Gross margin/ha in E
Beans                Traditional farming with              154.30
recommended inputs:
Cotton               Traditional farm                      173.40
with inputs:
Cotton               Semi-mechanized                       303.40
Sorghum              Traditional with inputs                69.40
Groundnuts           Traditional with inputs                47.35
Maize (1)            Traditional with                       22.55
recommended inputs,
improved seed
Maize (2)            Traditional with all                   74.10
recommended inputs
Maize (3)            Semi-mechanized                        87.30
plus inputs
Tobacco              Semi-mechanized, all                 1582.93
inputs and hired labor
Source: Ministry of Agriculture - Crop Profitability Guide Book
No. 1 (1975-76).
7.        Some indicative farm budgets are shown below, using available base
data on farming patterns by region and adjusting them to illustrate changes
that might result from future extension efforts to change farming patterns.
Under present traditional farming methods, a typical gross farm income in the
Highveld on a three hectare unit is estimated at E100. Various alternative
patterns have been analyzed, and show a range of E80 - EllO. A typical farm
budget is shown below:



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Fertilizer       Insecticide      Yield   Gross        Total
Area   (% of Recom-    (% of Recom-    (Per    Margin          Gross
Crop          (Ha)   mended Level)   mended Level)   Ha)        (Per Ha)    Margin
Maize           2         50               50          1000    E 22.71    E  45.42
Beans          1/2         0                 0          300    E 62.00    E  31.00
Groundnuts    1/2          0                 0          550    E 49.50    E  24.75
Total Farm Gross Margin:                         E 101.17
A traditional farmer in the Middleveld cropping 4 hectares might have a crop
budget as below:
Fertilizer       Insecticide      Yield   Gross        Total
(% of Recom-    (% of Recom-    (Per    Margin         Gross
Crop         Area   mended Level)   mended Level)   Ha)         (Per Ha)    Margin
(ha)         %                %          (kg)       (E)         (E)
Maize         2-1/2       50               50          1500      49.14        122.85
(Local
Seed)
Beans           1          0                0           400      89.00         89.00
Groundnuts    1/2          0                 0          700      66.00         33.00
Total Farm Gross Margin:                         E 244.85
8.        In future, extension officers might, if cotton were suitable for an
area, persuade the farmer to eliminate beans and grow 1-1/2 hectares of
cotton; with full inputs of fertilizer he should be able to attain 5 bales per
hectare. As a result, the farmer's gross margin could be nearly doubled:
Original Plan                          New Plan
Crop                Area (ha)   Total Gross Margin (E)   Area  Total Gross Margin
(E)
Maize                 2-1/2              122.85               2        98.28
Groundnuts             1/2                33.00              1/2       33.00
Beans                   1                 89.00
Cotton                  -                   -              1-1/2      310.95
TOTAL                   4                244.85                       442.15



ANNEX 10
Page 5
9.        Prolect Production.  Tables 1-7 show technical parameters used in
analysis of Project output. Table 8 shows profitability of various crops
under different conditions.
10        Starting yields and maximum field level yields by crop and by
region are shown below:
Highveld        Middleveld         Lowveld
-----------------kg-------------------
Local maize  - starting                    810              900               460
- maximum                  3000              3000              2000
Hybrid maize - starting                   1944             1944               910
- maximum                  5400              5400              2600
Cotton        - starting                    -               600               500
- maximum                    -               2000              1000
Tobacco       - starting                   600              600
- maximum                  2000              2000
Potatoes      - starting                 10000
- maximum                 30000
Beans         - starting                   400              500               300
- maximum                  1250              1250              1000
Groundnuts   - starting                    450              500               345
- maximum                  2500              2500              1500
11.       Estimated future farm income from crops could be of the order
of E245 in the intensive RDA's and E175 in the less intensive RDA's. The
financial costs involved, excluding crops like cotton and tobacco and excluding
farm labor, would be no more than E20. This means that for the less intensive
areas the gross margin would be around E153. In the intensive areas income
would be E245, giving a gross margin of around E225, which is similar to the
margins in the Middleveld where farms tend to be over 3 hectares.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
12.       Technical Basis for Production Estimates:  Assumptions employed
for analysis by the preparation team are summarized below. Crop technical
information (Tables 1-7) relates the expected average crop input to an aver-
age level of input for each ecological region. Three crop categories are
distinguished:
(a) 'Actively extended crops' such as hybrid maize,
cotton, tobacco and potatoes.
(b) 'Passive crops' which include those crops bene-
fitting from increased input availability and
general extension activity but not actively
extended by field officers, e.g. groundnuts,
beans and local maize.
(c) 'Other crops' which include such crops as
sorghum, pumpkins and jugo beans. It was
assumed that input and output levels and
area devoted to these crops would remain
unaffected by the Project.
For categories (a) and (b) input and output levels were assumed to increase
through time as a result of extension effort and increased input availability.
Input levels per crop were expressed as a percentage of the recommended level
for each ecological zone. Output levels are expressed in terms of the per-
centage of the expected maximum level of field production attainable when
inputs are applied at their recommended level. Crops in category (c)
were ignored since no changes in input or output were envisaged. They would
therefore have no incremental effect but income estimates were included in
the average farm budgets.
13.       Gross margin increases resulting from successive increases in
input and output levels indicate that it would be profitable to move to
higher levels of input use if the corresponding yield increases were ob-
tained. Data given in Tables 1-7 relate specifically to the less inten-
sive RDA's. For intensive RDA's, average crop inputs and outputs were
assumed increase in a similar fashion but a higher rate for the following
reasons:
-    More intensive staffing level
-    More intensive area management via on-site
project manager
-    Better use of suitable arable lands through
rationalization of land use and consolidation
-    Effect of tractor use on timeliness and quality
of cultivations
-    Soil conservation measures



ANNEX 10
Page 7
It was expected that improved area supervision and increased staffing in
the maximum areas would directly increase both the level of use and effec-
tiveness of application of crop input.
Cattle
14.       Incremental cattle production was estimated for intensive RDA's.
Five separate grazing areas were considered: four in the Mpolonjeni -
Lubombo RDA (Mpolonjeni, Tikuba, Sitataweni, and Lomahasha) and one con-
sisting of the Mahamba-Zombodze RDA as a whole. In order to estimate the
incremental income resulting from destocking where necessary and improve-
ments in herd performance and pasture condition, two herd projections were
prepared for each area: one for the situation without the Project (present
situation), and one for the situation with the Project (improved situa-
tion). Both projections start from the same base in year zero (the exist-
ing herd structure). The production parameters for subsequent years differ
for the two situation. Table 10 summarizes technical coefficients and input
data used in the herd projections.
15.       All areas except Tibuka are presently overstocked.  For these
areas it was assumed that in the absence of measures to destock or increase
carrying capacity the production parameters would remain at their initial
low levels. For the Tikuba area, which is not presently overstocked, a
higher level of performance was assumed initially. This would however
result in an overstocking situation by year 10 if the performance para-
meters were reduced accordingly.
16.       In order to realize improved performance parameters it would be
necessary to eliminate the present or future overgrazing by reducing stock
numbers. Cows and oxen above the normal 10% culling rate were therefore
assumed to be removed as necessary to move progressively to an acceptable
stocking rate by around year 15. It was assumed that a minimum number of
oxen must be maintained to carry out the required cultivations in each area.
An estimated 0.85 oxen would be required per household. Cow and oxen off-
takes in excess of the 10% culling rate indicates the order of destocking
required to reduce herd numbers to a satisfactory level. Cows in excess
of the 10% cull were priced higher than other cows because they would tend
to be younger animals and have a value as breeding stock as well as for
meat. Oxen in excess of the 10% cull were priced slightly lower than other
oxen to reflect the smaller size of these younger animals. It was assumed
that controlled breeding would result in higher value stock and for this
reason the price of all stock was increased by 2% per year above the original
prices from year 11. The carrying capacity of the land was assumed to be
marginally increased by rotational grazing and pasture improvement. It was
assumed that these measures would increase carrying capacities by 10% by
year 10.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
17.       In conclusion, mission analysis confirmed that the farm incomes used
in calculating the before and after Project benefits were based on sound
principles and they reflect a fair picture of the lower income group of Swazi
Nation Land farmers. The inputs necessary to produce higher yields are based
on experimental work and field trials, and yields expected under Project
conditions are within the bounds of probability. The rate of uptake by
farmers is to some extent based on experience gained in the present RDA's;
whether this is achieved or surpassed will depend largely on the capabilities
and number of the extension staff in the RDA's.
18.       Table 9 summarizes estimated production increases in Project RDA's.
These estimates are based on data developed during Project preparation, and
should be viewed as approximate. Nevertheless, it provides a useful basis
for analysis of Project benefits, and should assist Project managers in mea-
suring future increases in output in each area against initial expectations.
September 26, 1976



ANNEX 10
SWAZrLAND                                             Table 1
RURAL DEVELOPXNT PROJECT
Agricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and Output.
Local Maize
(per hectare)
Level of              ---------------   - ------------ Inputs ----------------------------------             Production
Region     Development                        Seed 1/  Fertilizer 2/  Lindane 3/ Diptrex 4/  Sevin 5/  Labor 6/          Yield 7/
Recommended      (kit)        tiR)           (kg)         (kit)      (kit)    (Mandav          (toni
Year         Input Level        25          475            3.50         3.75        1.2     n.a.  n.a.        3,000
0          Assumptions:       100          20              5           10         10      18.0   c            27
1          Inputa end         100          25             10           12        12       21.0   X            33
2          yields as a        100          30             15           15        15       22.0   o            36
Highveld:        3          % of recom-        100          35             20           18         18       23.5   b           39
4          mended             100          40             25           22         22      25 0   n            42
5          level.             100         45              30           25        25       26.0   i           45
Recommended
Input Level       25          350            3.50         3.75        1.2     na.  n.a.         3,000
0          Assumptions:       100          20              5           10        10       19.5   e            30
1          Inputs end         100         25              10           12        12       22.0   .           36
2          yields as a        100          30             15           15        15       23.5   a            39
Middleveld:      3           % of recom-       100          35             20           18         18       25.0   b           42
4          mended             100         40              25           22        22       26.0   2            45
5          level.             100         45              30          25         25       27.5               48
Recommended
Inout Level       25          150            3.50         3.75        1.2     na.  n.a.         2.000
0          Assumptions:       100          20              5           10         10      13.0   a            23
1          Inputs and         100          25             10           12        12       14.5  '0           27
2          yields as a        100          30             15           15        15       16.0  'o            32
Lowveld:         3          % of recom-        100          35             20           18         18      17.0   '            36
4,         mended             100          40             25           22        22       18.5   2           41
5          level.             100         45              30           25        25       20.0               45
I/  Price:  E 0.06/kg
2/  Price:  E 0.12/kg
3/  Price:  E 0.70/kg
4/  Price:  E 0.61/kg
5/  Price:  E 5.50/kg
6/  Valued at E .2 - .8/manday
7/  Sale Price:  E 0.06/kg.
Source:  Economics Section, Ministry of Agriculture.
Explanatory Note:  This table and those which follow are basic parameters used
in calculating project incremental production. Assumptions
are discussed _n the text. Inputs and yields are expressed
as a percentage of an optimum level ("Recommended input
level") except labor, which is mandays, by year or level
of development, thus illustrating progressive increases
in use of inputs and in yields.
November 29, 1976



XIIAL DV OiT MRIC?
A.40colturel Prod.cieo- T lehuical parente.s for Inputs -td OtlomuU
Re_i_o_-_-                                                 __- _-_---_          ---_----_--________________________                               __________ . .- -- - -i--
Seed  /   ForKtiptr V    Ureal/lA  I/  146-. I            ipztra  ./  Sevin 6/   Sevin 7]   Line V    lAb.s  9/         YLeld jqf
(kg)          S              (kg)          (kg)          (kg)          (kg)        (kg)      (kg)      (eendCy)          (kg)
oLntL             InuL              SC          475              135         3.50          3.75           1.2        395        2.47        n. .           5400
Yr
0          Aseuptioe.           100            50             -s 5O                       SO            SO         10           0         36             36 2
1          InpsaCe nd          100            55                            50            55            55        12           15         40             42 7
2          yield  at           100            60              --            50            60            60        14           20         42             457.
Hiehveld          3          each lerl            100            65             20            50            65            65         16           2U        46             SO X
4          axpresed ee          100           70              30            50            70            70         18          30         50             557.
S          2of                 100            73              40            50            75            75        20           35         54            so 7
6          rc_nd*d             100           75              40            50            so            80        25           35         55             60 %
7          level               100            75              40            SO             0            80         25          35         56             62 7
8                              100            75              40            50            80            s0        25           35         57             63 7
9                              100            75              40            so            80            80        25           35         59             65 %
10                              100            75              40            50           0S             s0        25           35         60             67 7
lvel of           Recomended
Dsvsloovqet        Innut Lcvl        30          350              80           1 5          3 FI           1 2        2Q5        2 47        n .           S400
0          Aeceptima            100           50              s-                          50            s0 1o                  --         36             36 7
I          Inpuct end          100            55              --            SO            55           55         12            5        40              42 7
2          yieldset            100            60              -             50            60            60        14            7        42              45 1
Hiddleveld        3          each level           100           65              20            50            65            65         16          10         46             50 S
4          arpreae.d  s %       100           70              30            50            70            70         16          12         50             55 S
5          of racomnded        100            75              40            50            75            75        20           15         54             56 %
6          leel.               100            75              40            SO            60            SO        25           15         55             60 1
7+                             10             75              40            50            8             80        25           15         56             421
evel of            R ecceded
Develoemec         Upant Leel        30          150              --           3.5          3.75           1.2       295           -        ..             2600
0          Amueption            100           SO                            50            50            50        10                      20             35 %
I          lput. Ad           100            55                            50            55           55         12                      22             38 %
2          yield  at           100            60                            50            60            60        14                      25             42 1
Lowwald           3          .eah 11             100           65                            50            65            65        16                      24             45 %
4          aepresed *e7,        100           70                            50            70            70        18                      25             46 %
S          of recmo_ded        100            75                            50            75            75        20                      27             52 %
6+         levL.               100            75                            SO            80            60        25                      26             5s %
1/  Price    .58/kg                         P/ rice:  Z 5.5 kg
2/  Pice. Z.121kg                           7/  rice:  2.0055 kg
l/  Price:  Z.124/k                         S/ Price:  I 11/+
Price:  1.7/k                              9/ Valued et I VI "a day
/  Price:  2.61/kg                         11/ Sale price 1.06 kg
Sourc!E:  ..on..ic.t Section, Minh.t7 of Ariculture
August 30. 1976
v..b.r 22, 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 3
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and Outputs
Cotton
(per hectare)
Leve   -      __ _Ints--
Level of                                   Fertilizer -            ,                               Productiqn
Region          Development                       Seed 1/    (2-3-2)         Urea -   Sprays 4/   Labor5             Yieltd_
Recommended   (k8)            (kg)         (kg)      (pack)        (mandevs)         (kg)
Year          Input Level    25             230            50         1            n4a.            1,000
0                          100             50             2       50              63 .           30 (2)
1           Inputs and    100              52            5        52              65 .           33 (Z)
2           yields as      100             55            7        55              68             35 (2)
Middleveld            3           2 of recom-   100              60             9        60             74 0           40 (%)
4           mended         100             64           12        64              79             0 4) (Z)
5           level.         100             67           15        67              85             50 (Z)
6                          100             70           17        70              90z            55 (2)
Recomm nded
Input Level    25             230           50         1             n.a.           1.000
o                          100             50           -         50              57 ^           50 (Z)
1           Inputs and    100              52           --        52              60 X           55 (Z)
2           yields as      100             55           --        55              63 '           60 (Z)
0
Lowveld               3           Z of recom-   100              60            -         64             70             65 (2)
4           mended         100             64           -         66              75 5           70 (2)
5           level.         100             67           --        67              80             75 (Z)
6                          100             70           -         70              86            80 ()
/  Price: E.059/kg
21  Price: E.12/kg
i/  Price: E.17/kg
4/  Price: E5.73/pack; assumes 8 sprays per season.  Total cost 1 pack   1/8 full spray
5/  Valued at E   / manday                                             Program cost of E45.84
-n Valued at E _/ nanday
61  Sale Price E.28/kg
Source: Economics Section, Ministry of Agriculture
September 18, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and Outputs
Tobacco
(per hectare)
------------------------------------ Inputs ------------------------------------------------------                      Production
Level of                       Nursery 1/    Fertilizer 2/         EDB 3/     Sevin 4/    Thiodan 5/    Sevin 6/         Labor 7/         Yield 8/
Region                   Development                       Stock          (2-3-2)                       (slugs)       (ABW)        (Cut Worm)
Recommended
Year            Input Level   I package        425 kg            60 1        110 g         340 ml         110 g         mandays           2,000 kg %
Highveld/Middleveld          0            Assumptions:       50             50                -            60           50            60             185               30
1            Inputs and         50             50                -           60            50            60            192                33
2            yields at          55             55              25            62            52            62            200                35
3            each level         60             60               30           65            55            65             215    -          40
4            expressed as       65             65               35           67            60            67             229    X          45
5            % of recom-        70             70              40            70            65            70             244    0          50
6            mended             75             75               50           75            70            75             259               55
level.
l/  Price:  E 11.25/package
2/  Price:  E 0.12/kg.
3/  Price:  E 1.03/1 tre
4/  Price:  E 0.0055 gm.
5/  Price:  E 0.0047 ml
6/  Price:  E 0.0055/gm.
7/  Valued at E    /manday-
8/  Sale price E 1.1/kg.
Source:  Economics Section, Miniatry of Agriculture.
August 23, 1976.



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and Outputs
Potatoes
(per hectare)
Level of
Region       Development                                           Inputs       ------------- -- - -    Production
Seed 1/ Fertilizer 2/ Lan 3/ Dipthane 4/ Materials 5/ Labor 6/           Yield 7/
Year          Recommended  (ton)        (kg)        (kg)     (kg)         (pkt)       (Mandays)      (ton) 2
Input Level    2         350         100         5        20,000             n.a.        30
0            Inputs and   100          60          60       100            10           41 >          33
1            yield as      100         65          65       100            11           44 t          37
2            %Zof           100        70          70       100            13           49 '          43
Highveld          3             recommended  100          75         75       100            15           54 $.         50
4            level.         100        80          80       100            17           59 n          57
5                           100        80          80       100            19           64 8          63
6                           100        80          80       100            20           66            67
1  Price:  E 250/tn.                                               5/  15 kg. potato pockets, valued at E 0.12/pkt.
2/  Price:  E 0.12/kg.                                              6/  Valued at E    /manday.
3/  Price:  E 0.124/kg.                                             7/  Sale price E 116.7 /ton.
4/ Price: E 3.46/kg
Source: Economics Section, Ministry of Agriculture.
August 23, 1976.
CH



ANNEX 10
Table 6
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and Outputs
Beans
(per hectares)
Level of         ----------------------- Inputs ----------------------            Production
Region             Development                         Seed 1/   Fertilizer 2/    Labor 3/             Yield 4/
Recommended      (kq)          (ki)           (mandavs)            (kg) 7%
Year           Input Level        90            30                  n,a.          1.250
0            Inputs and        100             -             64                   32
1           yields as          100             -             64   o1              32
2           % of rec-          100            25             78    s              40
Highveld                3            commended          100            25             78  .0              40
4+          level.             100            50             93                   48
Recommended
Input Level       90            200                 n.a.           1,250
O            Inputs and        100             -             71                   40
I           yields as          100             -             71                   40
2           7 of rec-          100            25             79   0               44
Middleveld              3            commended          100            25             86   s4             48
4            level.            100            50             93   0               52
5+                             100            50            100   Z               56
Recommended
Input Level       90            100                 n.a.          1,000
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Inputs  nd       100             -             43   X               30
1           yields as          100             -             43                   30
2           % of ree-          100            25             50                  35
Lowveld                 3            commended          100            25             57   1              40
4            level.            100            50             64.                  45
5+                             100            50             72                   50
1/  Price:  E 0.27/kg.
2/  Price:  E 0.12/kg.
3/  Valued at E   Imanday.
4/ Sale price E 0.27/kg.
September 18, 1976



SWAZILAND                                 ANNEX 10
Table 7
RURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
ARricultural Production - Technical Parameters for Inputs and Outputs
Groundnuts
(per hectare)
Level of                            Inputs --------------   Production
Region        Development                 Seed 1/ Double Super 2/ Labor 3/         Yield 4/
Recommended  (kg)          (kg)        (mandays)        (kg)
Year        Input Level  130           150                           2,500
0        Inputs,        100           -            54                18
1        yields as    100             -            59     0          20
2        % of Rec-    100             -            64                22
Highveld          3         commended    100            15            69     0          24
4        level.         100          20            74      v         26
5                       100          25            79      0         28
6+                      100          25            84                30
Recommended
Input Level  130           100           n.a.            2,500
0        Inputs,        100           -            59     g          20
1        yields as    100             -            64                22
2        Z of Rec-    100             -            69                24
Middleveld        3         commended    100            15            74     0          26
4        level.         100          20            79                28
5                       100          25            89     0          32
6+                      100          25            99    1           36
Recommended
Input Level  130           50            n.a.            1,500
0        Inputs,        100           -            44                23
1        yields as    100             -            49      '         27
2        % of Rec-    100             -            54    X           30
Lowveld           3         commended    100            15            59    4           33
4        level.         100          20            64    '           37
5                       100          25            69    @           40
6+                      100          15            79    !           47
P
1/  Price:  E 0.11/kg
2/  Price:  E 0.147/kg
3/  Valued at E   /manday
4/ Sale price E 0.11/kg.
Source:   Economics Section, Ministry of Agriculture.
September 18, 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 8
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production
Estimated Gross Margins Per Hectare /I
Level of Development (Year)
0          1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8        _9            10-20
Local Maize    (Passive)
Highveld                      34.7       42.3       44.5       46.7       48.7       50.9       50.9       50.9       50.9       50.9       50.9
Middleveld                    43.1       51.5       54.4       57.3       60.1       63.0       63.0       63.0       63.0       63.0       63.0
Lowveld                       20.9       25.1       29.2       33.3       37.3       41.4       41.4       41.4       41.4       41.4       41.4
Hybrid Maize   (Active)
Highveld                      67.1       75.9       82.0       90.2      100.0      104.4      109.3      114.7      120.1      125.5      130.9
Middleveld                    74.6       86.8       94.5      105.3      117.4      123.8      128.7      134.1      134.1      134.1      134.1
Lowveld                       24.7       28.7       32.7       36.7       40.8       44.8       49.7       49.7       49.7       49.7       49.7
Cotton          (Active)
Middleveld                   129.6      141.9      153.5      177.7      202.5      228.1      253.7      253.7      253.7      253.7      253.7
Lowveld                      101.8      114.3      126.1      134.6      146.6      159.3      171.1      171.1      171.1      171.1     171.1
Tobacco         (Active)
Highveld/Middleveld          607.2      662.2      698.5      802.2      905.9   1,109.6   1,110.2   1,110.2   1,110.2   1,110.2   1,110.2
Potatoes        (Active)
'ighveld                   1,037.1   1,193.1   1,507.7   1,822.4   2,137.1   2,454.5   2,613.2   2,613.2   2,613.2   2,613.2   2,613.2
Beans           (Passive)
lglighveld                    83.7       83.7      101.7      101.7      119.7      119.7      119.7      119.7      119.7      119.7      119.7
Middleveld                   110.7      110.7      118.2      131.7      139.2      152.7      152.7      152.7      152.7      152.7     152.7
LoTveld                       56.7       56.7       67.2       80.7       91.2      104.7      104.7      104.7      104.7      104.7     104.7
Groundnuts      (Passive)
Highveld                      35.2       40.7       46.2       48.3       52.8       57.2       62.7       62.7       62.7       62.7       62.7
Middleveld                    40.7       46.2       51.7       55.0       59.8       70.0       81.0       81.0       81.0       81.0       81.0
Lowveld                       24.2       29.7       35.2       39.6       44.7       49.9       60.9       60.9       60.9       60.9       60.9
I/ See Tables 1-7; Cost of labor excluded.
September 27, 1976



- ANNRM 10
Table 9
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Herd Projections - Technical Parameters
Cattle Production
Areas for which Herd Projections were prepared
Lubombo-Mpolongeni                      Mahamba-
Data and Technical Co-efficients               Mpolongeni      Stataweni      Lomahasha      Tikuba      Zombodze
(i)     Herd size and Stocking Capacity
Year 0 stocking capacity                         9,702            986           1,448         9,568       4,168
Year 10 stocking capacity                       13,702          1,085           1,593        10,525       4,585
Minimum Oxen required                            1,125            348              360          850       7,085
Year 0 Herd Numbers (AU)                        10,409          1,254           3,649         7,566      12,171
Year 11 without Project
Herd Numbers (AU)                          11,531          1,341           4,476        11,910      12,544
Year 10 with Project
Herd Numbers (AU)                          12,129          1,083           1,640         9,607       6,690
Year 20 with Project Herd                       13,702          1,083           1,591        10,525       4,583
Numbers (AU)
(ii)    Technical Co-efficients Used l/
Without Project:
Mortality 7                                   5-10            5-10            5-10         4-12         5-10
Culling (cows, oxen) %                          10              10              10           10           10
Calving %                                       40              40              40        40-50           40
With Project:
Mortality-Years 1-37.                         5-12            5-12            5-12         4-9          5-12
4%                         5-10            5-10            5-10         4-9          5-10
5-207%                       4-9             4-9             4-9          4-9          4-9
Culling (cows, oxen) Z                          10+             10+             10+          10+          10+
Calving- Year 1                                 40              40              40           50           40
3                                50              50              50           50           50
6-20                             65              65              65           65           65
1/     Range of Co-efficients for different categories of animals
September 29, 1976



SWAZILIND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Production Estisatee /1
Cros - Volue of Production                            1         2          3         4          3           6          7          8           9         10          11         12          13         14          15        16-20
(Tons)
Melee                                  (20,700)     2,8000    5,700      7,900     10,400     12,900      13,700     14,100     14,300      14,700     15,100      15,700      16,200     16,600     16,800      17,000     17, 000
Cotton                                    (949)       100       304        408        564      1,177       1,451      1,754      2,063       2,362      2,654       2,825       2,319      2,984      3,038       3,064      3,0W
Tobacco                                   (113)        39       125        207        375        517         670        838         974      1,190      1,368       1,457       1,525      1,582      1,625       1,650      1,663
Potatoes                                  (188)       147       515        923      1,406       1,964      2,591      3,261      3,950       4,640      5,330       5,675       5,986      6,227      6,488       6,503      6,534
Beans                                     (369)        25        76        161        261        369         442        488        503         539         621        653         653        653         653        653        653
Groundouts                                (859)        85       225        374        535        653         893      1,164      1,220       1,275      1,311       1,322       1,322      1,322      1,322       1,322      1,322
Cray* - Value of Production
(s'000)
Melee                 (160)                           168       342         47        624         774        822        846         858        882         906        942         972        996       1,008      1,020      1,020
Cotton              (E280)                             28        85        114        158         330        406        491         578        661         743        791         649        835         851        858         909
Tobacco             (11100)                            43       138        228        413         569        737        922       1,071      1,309       1,505      1,603       1,678      1,740       1,788      1,815       1,832
Potatoe            (E166.7)                            25        86        154        234         327        432        544         658        773         889        946         998      1,038       1,082      1,084      1,090
ean                  (Z270)                             7        21         44         70         100        119        132         136        146         168        176         176        176         176        176         176
trounduta           (E110)                              9        25         41         59          72         98        128         134        140         144         145        145        145         145        145         145
Other Crops                                            50        55         60         65          70         75         80          85         90          95         100        100        100         100        100         100
Total Value                                      330       732       688       1.623      2.242       2.689      3.143      3.520       4.001      4.450       4.703      4.894       5.030       5.150      5.198      5.272
Livestock
Nbber of Cattle (No)                                  900     1,740      2,280      1,900       2,290      2,900      2,970       3,240      3,600       3,130      3,710       3,140      3,980       4,320      5,800       5,000
Value (E'000)                                         113       217        285        237         286        362        371         405        450         391         464        393        498         540        725         620
Other Production
Fash, ailk, etc. (Value E'000)                         50        55         60         65          70         75         80          85         90          95         100        100         100        100        100         100



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Principal Commodities - Financial and Economic Prices
Commoditv               1974-75 Price                Estimated 1976                Estimated International
Swaziland Price              Price  -  1976
Maize                   E 0.06/kg                    E 0.07/kg                   US$0.13/kg
Cotton                  E 1.28/kg                    E 1.47/kg                   US$0.66/pound
Tobacco                 E 1.10/kg                    E 1.27/kg                   US$1.61/kg 1/
Beef                    E 128/head                   E 190/head                  US$1.66/kg 2/
1/   Flue cured beef
2/  Imported, frozen, boneless, 907 visible, lean, f.o.b. port of entry
November 29, 1976
(DX
I-S O



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(a) Extension Services and Tnfrastructure
Fixed Invest-ents - Vehicles and Equipment
(Emalangeni)
Year L                 Year 2                  Year 3                  Year 4                  Year 5                          Years 1-5                      Foreign ip.-djLe.-
INVESTMENT CATEGORY             Unit     Unit Coot      Units        .ost       Units       Cost        Units       Cts Units               COt        Unite       Cost              Total Units      Tot1a Cost                  Component
I/
Vehicles and Equipment
MNAAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Seven-ton Truck                 Ne.        13,000          1        13,000         _                -                ,            -           -                                              1          13,000                     100
Four-vheel Drive Vehicle        No.         5,600          1         5,600         -         _            _          -            -           -           -                                  1           S,600                    100
Pick-op Trucks                  No.         5,300          2        10,600         -         _            -          -            -           -           -           -                      2          10,600                    100
Tractors                        No.         8,600          4        34,400 o        o                     -          -            -           -           -           -                      4          34,400                     100
Tractor Pool Eq.ip..ent         Set        13,100          1        13,100         _          .            _         _            _           -           _           -                      1          13,100                     100
Office & Depot
Eqslp-ent                    Set        10,600                                  1       10,600         -          -            -           -           .           -                      1          10.600                    100
Sub-Total                                                      76.700                 iO,600                                                                                                       87,300                    100
LUBOMBO-M3'OLONJENI RDA
Seven-ton Trucks                No.        13,000 o                   _            2        26,000        _          _            -           -           -           -                      2          26,000                     100
Four-beel. Drive Vehicles       No.         5,600                     _            2        11,200        _          _            _           _           _           -                      2          11,200                     100
Pick-op Trocks                  No.         5,300                     _            3        15,900        -          _            _           _           -           -                      3          15,900                     100
Tractors                        No.         8,600          _          _            6        51,600         _          _                       _           _           _                      6          51,600                     100
Tractor Pool Eqipment           Set        13,100                     _            2        26,200         _          _           _           _           _           _                      2          26,200                     100
Office & Depot
Bqoip.eet                    Set        10,600          -          -                                    2       21.200                                                                    2          21,200                    100
Sub-Total                                                                            130,900                  21,200                                                                              i52,100                     100
OIETH   RDA' '/
S-ves-toe Trocks                No.        13,000          _          _            7        91,000         -          -            _          -           _           -                       7          91,000                    100
Four-wheel Drive Vehicles       No.         5,600                     _            7        39,200         _          _            _          _           _           _                       7         39,200                     100
Pick-np Truck                   No.         5,300          _                       1         5,300         _                       _          _           _           _                       1           5,300                    100
Office & Depot
Equipment                    Set        10,600                     _            -                      4        42.400         3        31.800         -           _                      7          74,200                     100
Sub-Total                                                                            135,500                  42,400                  31,800                                                      209,700                     100
Total                                                         76_700                 277,000                  63.600                  31_800                                                      449.100                     100
1/   Vehicle C06t e-ti-at-x are based on bids the Ce-tr-3 Tr-nsport Office received  -nder a Hatch 1976 tender.
2/  The other RDA's  re Bekinkosi-Mliba, Mahange-hluti, M.aslo-Vikizijula, Nkambeni-Madlengempisi, Snndleni-Qolve.ni, Siphofaneni-4aphobei snd Sithobela-madubeni.                                                                            a  R
September 19, 1976



SWAZILAND
RERAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
(a) Extension Services and Ifrastrtctare
Fixed Ino-st-nte - Buildings and Installations
Year 1                 Year 2                 Year 3                  Yea- 4Yer                                              Y"re 1-5                      Fomrign Enoenditure
INSVCESnENT CATEGORY           unit     Unit Coot    unite        Cost        Units      Coa-         nt ot                  Units      Cest        Unite       Coat             Total Units      Total Cost               Cmponent
Buildings and Installations
MAAIIBA--ZOMBODZE RDA
Three-bedr.am  Nauca            No.        21,800        1          21,800                                                                                                             1            21,800                   55
TN-bedroom Eoase               No.          8,000        5          40,000      5          40,000       5         40,000       -            -                       -                 15           120,000                   55
Junior Qoartere                No.          1,700        3           5,100      3           5,100       3           5,100      -            -           -           .                  9            15,300                   90
Store                          No.          3,400                   3,400       -           -          -            -         -            -           -           -                  1             3,400                   60
tractor WNrkbhopa               No.          3,000       1           3,000       -            -         -            -          -           -           -           -                  1             3,000                   60
Fertilizer Shed                 No.          3,000       1           3,000       -           -          -            -         -            -          --           -                  1             3,000                   60
Main Depot                     Na.          20,000       1          20,000       -           -          -            -         -            _                       -                  1            20,000                   60
lis-rosim  Office              No.           7,100       1           7,100       -                 -          -                                                                        I -  -  -  1  7,lOO                   35
Sob-Total                                                   103,400                  45,100                 45.100                                                                          193.600                    59
L080M8B-4POLONJENI RDA
Three-bedroom Msse             No.         21,800        -                       i         21,8Oo                                                                                      1            21,800                   55
TNo-bedroom Hooue               N..         8,000        -            -         8          64,000       9          72,000      9          72,000        -                             26           208,000                   55
Junior QOarters                No.          1,700        -            -         6          10,200       5           8,500      5           8,500        -          -                  16            27,200                   90
Main Depot                      Na.        20,000        --                      2         40,000       -                                   -           -                              2            40,000                    60
Store                           No.          3,400        -           -          1          3,400       -                      .            -           -           _                  1             3,400                   60
Tractor Workshop                No.          3,000       -            -          1          3,000       -                      -            -           -           -                  1             3,000                    60
Fertilizer Shad                 N..         3,000        -            -          1          3,000       -                                                                              I -  -  -  1  3,000                   60
Farmer Shed                    N..          2,000        -            -         2           4,000       1           2,000      1           2,000        -          _                   4             8,000                   60
Four-room Office                No.         6,100        -            -          1          6,100       -                                                                              I _  -  _  1  6,100                   60
Six-room Offics                 No.          7,100       -            -          1          7,100       --                                  -           -                              1             7,100                    55
Sob-Total                                                                           162.600                 82,500                  82,300                                                  327,600                    59
OTNER RDA 8
Two-bedroom Noose              No.          8,000        -            -         8          64,000       8          64,000      8          64,ooo        8        64,000               32           256,000                    55
Junior QOarters                No.           1,700       -            -         4           6,800       6          10,200      6          10,200        6         10,200              22            37,400                    90
Main Depot                      No.         20,000       -            -          -            -         1          20,000       1         20,000        -           -                  2            40,000                    60
Fertilizer Shed                No.          3,000        -            -         3           9,000       2           6,000      2           6,000        _          _                   7            21,000                   60
Farmer Shed                     No.         2,000        -            -         3           6,000       3           6,000      3           6,000        -           -                  9            18,000                   60
Foor-room Office                No.         6,100        -            -         3          18,300       1           6,100       1          6,100        -           -                  5            30,500                    55
Sob-Total                                                                           104.100                112,300                 112,300                 24,200                           402,900                    59
Total                                                       103_400                 311,800                23900                   194,800                 74,200                           924, 100                   59
1/   Buildiog coot estimates rofle-t  urrennt Gnmet stondards and goidelines contained in a Public Works Dopart.ent cirrular doted Febrotay 11, 1976.
September 9 1976



SWAZIIAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(a) Extension Services and Infrastructure
Fixed Inesteente - Sum-ary
(Eslangeni)
I/                                         Year 1                Year 2                 Year 3                Year 45                                               Years 1-5                    Foreign Expenditure
INVES1lTr CATEFGRY-          Unit           Unit Cost    Units       Cost       Units      Coat        Unite      Cost       Units      Coat        Units      Cost             Total Unite     Total Cost                Component
Buildings & Insetaliatione:
Three-bedroom Houoes         No.             21,800         1       21,800         1       21,800                                                                                     2            43,600                     55
T.o-bedroom Houses           No.              8.000         5       40,000        21      168,000       22       176,000       17       136,000       8         64,000               73           584,000                     55
Junior Quarters              No.              1,700         3        5,100        13       22,100       14        23,800       11        18,700       6         10,200               47            79,900                     90
Main Depots                  No.             20,000         1       20,000         2       40,000        1        20,000        1        20,000        -          -                    5          100,000                     60
Stores                       No.              3,400         1        3,400         1        3,400       -            -         -           -           _          -                   2             6,800                     60
Tractor Workshops            No.              3,000         1        3,000         1        3,000       -            -         -           -           _          _                   2             6,000                     60
Fertiliser Sheds             No.              3,000         1        3,000        4        12,000        2         6,000        2         6,000        -          -                   9            27,000                     60
Farmer Sheds                 No.              2,000                                5       10,000        4         8,000        4         8,000        -          -                  13            26,000                     60
Four-room Offices            No.              6,100                               4        24,400        1         6,100        1         6,100                   -                   6            36,600                     55
Six-rooe, Offices            No.              7,100         1        7,100         1        7,100                                                                                     2            14,200                     55
Sub-Total                                                       103,400                311.800                239,                   194.800                 74.200                            924.100                     59
Vehicles & Emuivesnt'
Seven-ton Trucks             No.             13,000         1       13,000         9      117,000              -          -                -           -          -                   10          130,000                    100
Four-wheel Drive Vehicles    No.              5.600         1        5,600         9       50,400       -            -         -           -           _          -                   10           56,000                    100
Pick-up Trucks               No.              5,300         2       10,600         4       21,200        -           -         -           -           -          -                    6           31,800                    100
Tractors                     No.              8,600         4       34,400         6       51,600        -           -         -           -           -          -                   10           86,000                    100
Tractor Pool Equipmnt        Set             13,100         1       13,100         2       26,200        -           -         -            -          _          -                    3           39,300                    100
Office & Depot Equipment     Set             10,600                    -           1       10,600        6        63,600        3        31,800              -    -                   10          106,000                    100
Sub-Total                                                        76.700               277.000                  63,600                 31,800                                                   449.100                    100
Total                                                                                  588.800                303_500                226.600                 74_200                          1.373200                      72
1/ See Tables l nd 2
September 28, 1916



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOFJTPN  PROJECT
(a) Extension Services and .  frastructore
Incrressental Operating Costs -Wages and Salaries
(Enatenieni)
ft-ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Annual            ^- ---------------------------Y------------ --                                 ---Year_ _ _ _ _, _ _     _           -2-
INVESThEIO CATEGORY                            Salary I/                 1                      2                      3                       4                                                               7 6-20  Foig. Epadirr
Waxes &. Salaries
MAAIMA-ZOMgODZE RODA
Project Manager                                5,600                   5,600                  5,600                  5,600                  5,600                   5,600          5,600                       0
AgricuLtur-i-  tet-nioc
Officers                                    3,600                   7,200                  7,200                  7,200                   7,200                  7,2o0           1,200                      0
Field Officer                                  1,600                   9,O00                 18,000                 18,000                  18,000                 18,000         18,000                       0
Drivers                                        l,lOO                   2,200                  2,200                  2,200                  2,200                   2,200            -                         0
Watchmen                                         700                     700                    700                     700                    700                    700             700                      0
Clerk-typist                                     Boo                     800                    600                    800                     800                    800             600                      0
Artisans                                       1,500                   3,000                  6,000                  6,000                   6,000                  6,000            -                         0
Laborers                                         600                   9,000                  9,000                  9,000                  9,000                   9,000           -                          0
Tractor Drivers                                  900                   3,600                  3,600                  3,600                  3,600                   3,600            -                         0
Mechanic                                       3,600                   3,600                  3,600                   3,600                  3,600                  3,600           3,600                      0
Mechanical Asaiftect                           1,200                   1,200                  1,200                   1,200                  1,200                  1,20o           1,200                      0
D-estic Science
Desanetrator                                1,800                   1,800                  1,800                  1,800                   1,800                  1,800           1,800                      0
.alanteere Z/                                    700                   1,400                  1,400                  1,400                  1,400                   1,400            -                         0
Sub-Tat&l                                                          49-100                 61,1 0l                6tL00                  61.100                  6 o11          38 900                       0
WEOM8O-MPOLONJENT RDA
Project Manager                                5,600                   5,600                  5,600                  5,600                  5,600                   5,600          5,600                       0
Agricultur-l Ext.nai.s
Officers                                    3,600                   3,600                  7,200                  7,200                  7,200                   7,200           7, 200                     0
Field Officers                                 1,800                   5,400                 14,400                 23,400                  23,400                 23,400          23,400                      0
Drivers                                        1,100                    -                     3,300                  3,300                  3,300                   3,300            -                         o
Watchan                                          700                    -                      1,400                  1,400                  1,400                  1,400           1,400                      0
Clerk-typists                                    800                     800                  1,600                   1,600                  1,600                  1,600           1,600                      0
Artisans                                       L,500                    _                      9,000                  9,000                  9,000                  9,000            -                         0
Laberers                                         600                    -                    12,000                 12,000                  12,000                 12,000            -                         0
Tr-rt-r  -rivera                                 900                    -                     5,400                   5,400                  5,400                  5.400            -                         0
Meebseic                                       3,600                    -                      3,600                  3,600                  3,600                  3,600           3,600                      0
Mechanical Assisrtats                          1,200                    -                      2,400                  2,400                  2,400                  2,400           2,400                      0
Domestic Science
Deosnstractors                              1,800                    -                     3,600                   3,600                  3,600                  3,600           3,600                      0
Velenteara 2/                                    700                    -                      1,400                  1,400                  1,400                  1,400            -                         o
Grain Sterage Of-icer                          3,600                    -                     3,600                   3,600                  3,600                  3.600            -                         0
Sub-Tetel                                                          15,400                 74,500                 83,500                  83.500                 83500c         48 800                       0
OTHEM RDA'S
Agricultoral & livestock                       3,600                    -                    10,800                 18,000                 25,200                  25,200         25,200                       0
E-tensian OfMfier.
Fteld Officer                                 5,600                                          10,000                 36,000                 43,000                 45,000          45,000                      0
Doict  Scienc  Dee trtor                      1,800                    -                     5,400                   9,000                 12,600                 12.600          12,60                       0
Clerk Typists                                   800                    -2,400                                        4;000                  2,600                  5,000           5,600                      0
W.tch-a                                         700                    -2,100                                        3,500                  4,900                  4,900           4,900                       0
Driver                                        1,100                    -10,500                                      16,500                 16,500                 56,500            -                         0
Lborers                                         600                    -                    10,000                  30,000                 30,000                 30,000            -                         0
Sub-Total                                                                                73,200                 117,000                139,800                139,800         95 309                       0
Total                                                             66,500                 208 800                261_600                24                      284400         191,1)00
1/  Inclodes bo..eitte nd sllos-xnce e - l Js  in,o ldn,  o- 1ima,cd cost o official travel.
2/  Subsistence aed trsnf.o.t. tio,I cosi
Septanbe- 2, 1976



ANNEX 1 1
Table 5
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(q) Extension Services and Infrastructure
Operating Costs - Other Recurrent Costs
(Emalangeni)
~~-----------------------------  Year  --------__________________
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                                   1            2             3            4            5          6-20             Foreign Expenditure
Component
Operating Costs -  - Vehicles & Equipment
MAHAMBA - ZOMBODZE RDA
Seven-Ton Truck                                    4,600        4,600        4,600        4,600        4,600         4,600                     70
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                          4,600        4,600        4,600        4,600        4,600         4,600                     70
Pick-up Trucks                                     7,400        7,400        7,400        7,400         7,400        7,400                     70
Tractors                                          14,400       14,400       14,400       14,400        14,400       14,400                     70
Tractor Pool Equipment                               900          900          900           900          900          900                     70
Office Depot Equipment                               -            400          400           400          400          400                     70
Sub-total                                      31,900       32.300       32,300       32.300       32.300       32,300                      70
LUBOM3O-MPOLONJENI RDA
Seven-Ton Trucks                                     -          9,200        9,200        9,200         9,200        9,200                     70
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                            -          9,200        9,200         9,200        9,200        9,200                     70
Pick-up Trucks                                       -         11,100       11,100       11,100        11,100       11,100                     70
Tractors                                             -         21,600       21,600       21,600        21,600       21,600                     70
Tractor Pool Equipment                               -          1,800        1,800         1,800        1,800        1,800                     70
Office & Depot Equipment                             -            -            800           800          800          800                     70
Sub-total                                                   52,900       53.700       53,700       53,700       53,700                      70
OTHER RDA'S
Seven-Ton Trucks                                     -         32,200       32,200       32,200        32,200       32,200                     70
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                            -         32,200       32,200       32,200        32,200       32,200                     70
Pick-up Trucks                                       -          3,700        3,700         3,700        3,700        3,700                     70
Office & Depot Equipment                             -            -          1,600         2,800        2,800        2,800                     70
Sub-total                                                   68,100       69,700       70,900       70,900       70,900                      70
Total Vehicles & Equipment (Operation)            31,900      153.300      155.700      156.900      156.900      100                          70
Other Recurrent Costs
MARAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Building Maintenance 2/                              -          3,000        4,000         4,000        4,000        4,000                      70
Demonstration Plots                                1,800        1,800        1,800         1,800        1,800        1,800                     60
Office Stationery                                  1,200        1,200        1,200         1,200        1,200        1,200                     50
Sub-total                                       3,000        6,000        7,000        7,000        7,000         7,000                     64
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Building Maintenance 2/                              -             -          5,000        6,700        6,700        6,700                     70
Demonstration Plots                                2,100        2,100         2,100        2,100        2,100        2,100                     60
Office Stationery                                  1,200        1,200        1,200         1,200        1,200        1,200                     50
Sub-total                                       3,300        3.300        8,300       10,000        10.000       10.000                     66
OTHER  RDA'S
Building Maintenance 2                               -             -         4,300         6,500        8,000        8,000                     70
Demonstration Plots                                  -          4,800         7,200        9,600        9,600        9,600                     60
Office Stationery                                    -             -          3,000        4,800        4,800        4,800                     50
Sub-total                                                    4,800       14,500       20,900       22,400        22,400                     61
Total Other Recurrent Costs                        6.300       14.100        29.800       37.900       39.400       39,400                      63
Grand Total                                      58,200       167.400      185500       194,800      196.300      196.300                      69
1/ Operating costs of Vehicles reflect estimated mileage, fuel, service and repairs.
2/ P.W.D. estimates building maintenance costs to average 2% of building cost per year.
September 28, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 6
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(a) Extension Services and Infrastructure
Operating Costs - Summary
(Eialangeni)
----------------------- Year                  -----------------------------         Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY            1             2             3             4            5             1-5                Component
Wages & Salaries
Project Managers             11,200        11,200        11,200        11,200        11,200        56,000                   0
Agricultural Extension       10,800        25,200        32,400        39,600        39,600        147,600                  0
Officers
Field Officers               14,400        50,400        77,400        86,400        86,400       315,000                   0
Drivers                       2,200        22,000        22,000        22,000        22,000        90,200                   0
Watchment                        700        4,200         5,600         7,000         7,000         24,500                  0
Clerk Typists                 1,600         4,800         6,400         8,000         8,000        28,800                   0
Artisans                      3,000        15,000        15,000        15,000        15,000         63,000                  0
LAborers                      9,000        39,000        51,000        51,000        51,000       201,000                   0
Tractor Drivers               3,600         9,000         9,000         9,000         9,000         39,600                  0
Mechanics                     3,600         7,200         7,200         7,200         7,200         32,400                  0
Mechanical Assistants         1,200         3,600         3,600         3,600         3,600         15,600                  0
Domestic Science              1,800        10,800        14,400        18,000        18,000        63,000                   0
Demonstrators
Volunteers                    1,400         2,800         2,800         2,800         2,800         12,600                  0
Grain Storage Officer          -            3,600         3,600         3,600         3,600         14,400                  0
Sub-Total                 64,500       208oo         261 600      284.400       284.400      1,103,700                   0
Vehicles & Equipment
Seven-ton Trucks              4,600        46,000        46,000        46,000       46,000        188,600                  70
Four-wheel Drive Vehicles    4,600         46,ooo        46,000        46,000       46,000        188,600                  70
Pick-up Trucks                7,400        22,200        22,200        22,200        22,200        96,200                  70
Tractors                     14,400        36,000        36,000        36,000        36,000       158,400                  70
Tractor Pool Equipment          900         2,700         2,700         2,700         2,700         11,700                 70
Office & Depot Equipment       -              400         2,800         4,000         4,000        11,200                  70
Sub-Total                 31,900       153,300       155,700      156,900       156,900        654,700                  70
Other Recurrent Costs
Building Maintenance           -            3,000        13,300        17,200       18,700         52,200                  70
Demonstration Plots           3,900         8,700        11,100        13,500        13,500         50,700                 60
Office Stationery             2,400         2,400         5,400         7,200         7,200         24,600                 50
Sub-Total                  6.300        14.100        29.800       37.900        39.400        127,500                 63
Total                    102,700       376,200       447,100      479,200       480.700      1.885.900                  29
September 28, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 7
SWAZ ILAND
RURAL DEVELOPNMT PROJECT
(a) Extension Services and Infrastructure
Sumnary of Investment Costs
(Emalangeni)
------------------------------ Year--------          --__-_____   Total Years     Foreign Expenditure
IWMESTMENI CATEGORY                      1            2            3             4            5            1-5                  Component
Fixed Investmenta:
Buildings & Installations
MHAAMBS-ZOHBODZE RDA                103,400       45,100        45,100         -             -         193,600                  59
LUBOMBW3-NPLOLUENI RDA                 -         162,600        82,500       82,500          -         327,600                  59
OTHER RDA'S                            -         104,100       112,300      112,300        74,200      402,900                  59
Sub-Total                           103.400      311,800      239,900       194,800       74.200       924,100                  59
Vehicles & Equioment
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RCA                 76,700       10,600          -            -             -          87,300                 100
LUBhNBO-NPOLONJENI RDA                 -         130,900        21,200         -             -         152,100                 100
OTHER RDA'S                            -         135,500       42,400        31,800          -         209,700                 100
Sub-Total                            76,700      277,000        63.600       31.800          -         449.100                 100
Total Fixed Investments             180,100      588.800       303,500      226,600        74,200    1,373,200                  72
Operating Costs:
WaRes & Salaries
MAIAM-ZOMBODZE RDA                   49,100       61,100        61,100       61,100        61,100      293,500                   0
LUbOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA               15,400       74,500       83,500        83,500       83,500       340,400                   0
OTlER RDA'S                            -          73,200       117,000      139,800       139,800      469,800                   0
Sub-Total                            64.500      208.800      261.600       284,400      284.400    1.103,700                    0
Vehicles & Equipment
I4AIM-ZO0MmDZE RDA                   31,900       32,300        32,300       32,300        32,300      161,100                  70
LUS(BO3-NPOLONJENI RDA                 -          52,900        53,700       53,700        53,700      214,000                  70
OTHER RDA'S                            -          68,100        69,700       70,900        70,900      279,600                  70
Sub-Total                            31.900      153.300      155,700       156.900      156.900       654,700                  70
Other Recurrent Costs
MA2RAMB&-ZOMBODZE RDA                 3,000        6,000         7,000        7,000         7,000       30,000                  64
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                3,300        3,300         8,300       10,000        10,000       34,900                  66
OTHER RDA'S                            -           4,800        14,500       20,900       22,400        62,600                  61
Sub-Total                             6.300       14,100       29.800        37,900        39,400      127,500                  63
Total Operating Costs               102,700      376.200       447.100      479,200      480,700    1,885,900                   29
Total Investment Costs              282,800      965.000       750.600      705.800       554,900    3.259.100                  47
September 19, 1976



SWAZ ILAND
RURAL DEVELOPnENT PROJECT
(b) Livestock Development
Fixed Investments
(Eralangeni)
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3               Year 4               Year 5                   Years 1-5               Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                      Unit    Unit Cost       Units      Cost      Units      Cost      Units      Cost     Units       Cost     Units       Cost     Totsl Units      Total Cost           Componeot
Civil Works & Animl Health
141AAM4A-ZOMBODZE RDA
Stockwatering Dams                       No.         Io,o0o                             1        10,000      2       20,000       1       10,000       I       10,000            5           50,000                70
Diptanks                                 No.          2,100        _         _          1        2,100       2        4,200       -         -               -                    3            6,300                60
LUB5MBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Stockwatering Dame                       No.         10,000        -         -          1        10,000      2       20,000       1       10,000       I       10,000            5           50,000                70
Diptanks                                 No.          2,100        _         -          1        2,100       2        4,200       -         -               -                    3            6,300                60
Sub-Total                                                                 -                  24,200               48,400               20,000               20.000                       112600                69
Fencing and Pasture Improvement
MNAAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Pastore Improvement                      ha               8        -          -     1,000         8,000  1,000        8,000   1.0o 8,000  1,00                 8,000        4,000           32 000                50
Fencing                                  K.             440                            60        26,400     60       26,400       60      26,400      60       26,400          240          105,600                80
LUBMBO-MPPO.ONJENI RDA
Bush-clearing                            ha              30        -          _         -          -     1,500       45,000  1,500        45,000  1,500        45,000        4,500          135,000               80
Pasture Improvement                      ha               8        -                    -          -     1,000         8,000  1,000        8,000  2,000         16,000       4,000           32,000               80
Fencing                                  Km             44                            100        44,000    100       44,0C0    100        44,000    150         66,000         450          198,000               80
Sob-Total                                                                 _                  78,400              131.400                ,40                161.400                       502,600                90
Livestock Marketing
Cattle Trocks:
MAIAMOLA-ZOMBDmZE RDA                 N-.         18,000        1        18,000      -                               -                    -                    -               1          18,000               100
LUB30MW-MPOLONJENI RDlA               No.         18,000        -          -         1       18,000       -         -          -          -         -         -                1          18,000               100
OTHER RDA'S                           No.         18,000        -          -         2        36,000      3       54,000       2       36,000                 -                7         126,000               100
Sob-Total                                                               1854000                                   54000                3600                                              162000                100
Total                                                                    18.000             156,600              233.800              187.400                181,400                     777,200
September 19, 1976



ANNEX 11
SWAZILAND                                                              T     S
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(b) Livestock DeveloPment
Recurrent Costa
(E&olIngeni)
Unit Cost     ----------------------------------- Year ---------------   Total Years         Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                      Unit    per annom         1            2             3             4            5             6-20           Component
Wages & Salaries 1/
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Livestock Extension Officer          Man-year        3,600          -          3,600        3,600         3,600        3,600          3,600               0
Veterinary Assistants 2/             Man-year        1,000          -          1,300        3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000               0
LUBOMbO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Livestock Extension Officers         Man-year        3,600        3,600        7,200        7,200         7,200        7,200          7,200               0
Veterinary Assistants 2/             Man-year        1,000          -          1,000        3,000         3,000        3,000          3,000               0
Sub-Total                                                      3 6         12                         1600         16,800         16,8.0               0
Infrastructure
Maintenance 3/and Supplies
MAhAMbA-ZOMbODZE RDA
Stockwatering Da                     No               500            -            -           500         1,500        2,000          2,000              70
Diptanks                             No.               100           _            -           100           300          300            300              30
Dipping Material 4/                  Ton             1,700           -         1,700        5,100         8,500        8,500          8,500             10f)
Fencing                              Km                  9           -            -           540         1,080        1,620          2,160              70
LU8OMbO-NOLONJENI RDA
Stockwatering Dam                    No.               500           -           -            5C0         1,500        2,000          2,500              70
Diptanks                             No.               100           -           -            100           300           300           300              30
Dipping Material 4/                  Ton             1,700            -        1,700        3,400         8,500        8,500          8,500             100
Fencing                              lm                  9           -           -            900         1,800        3,600          4,000              70
Slb-Total                                                         -         3.400       11.140       23.480        26,820         28.260              90
Vehicles Maintenance and
Operating Cost  5/
Cattle Trucks:
MAHAMRA-ZOMBODZE RDA              No.            6,000         6,000        6,000        6,000         6,000        6,000          6,000              70
LUbOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA            No.             6,000          -          6,000        6,000         6,000        6,000          6,000              70
OTHER RDA'S                       No.             6,000          --        12,000       36,000       42,000        42,000         42,000              70
Slb-Total                                                      6.000      24,000        48,000        54.000       54,000         54.000              70
Total                                                          9,600       40,200       75,940        94,280       97,620         99,060              63
1/ See Table 4.
2/ One veterinary assistant is assigned to each diptank.
3/  Standard maintenance costs from P.W.D. and Land Development Unit.
4/ A diptank -ould require from 1 1/3 to 1 2/3 tons per year depending on usage conditions-
5/ See Table 5.
Septenber 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 10
SWAZILAND
RURAt DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
(b) Livestock Development
Summary of Investment Costs
(Emalangeni)
-------------------------------- Year ---------                                    Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                         1            2            3            4            5             1-5                 Component
Fixed InvestOenta:
Civil Works & Animal Health
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                       -          12,100       24,200       10,000       10,000       56,300                  69
LUbOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                    -          12,100       24,200        10,000       10,000       56,300                  69
Sub-Total                                 -          24.200       48.400        20.000       20000       112,600                  69
Fencing & Pasture Improvement
MAHAMBA-ZOMbODZE RDA                       -          34,400       34,400       34,400       34,400      137,600                  90
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                     -         44,000        97,000       97,000      127,000      365,000                  90
Sub-Total                                 -           78,4400     1400         131.400      161,400      502,600                  90
Livestock Msrketing
NAIAMH A-ZOMBODZE RDA                    18.000         -            -            -            -          18,000                 100
LUBTMEC0-MPOLONJENI RDA                    -          18,000         -            -            -          18,000                 100
OTHER RDA'S                                -          36,000       54,000       36,000         -         126,000
Sub-Total                               18,000       54,000       54,000        36,000         -         162,000                 100
Total Fixed InveStments                  1890!       156.600      233,800      187.400      181,400      777.200                  89
Recurrent Costs:
Wages & Salaries
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                                   4,600        6              600        6 600                                0
LU80MBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                    3,600        8,200       10 2         1, 200                                             0
Sub-Total                                 3,600       12.800       16.800       16.800       16.800       66,800                   0
Infrastructure
Maintenance & Supplies
MAHAMBA-ZOMBUDZE RDA                       -           1,700        6,240       11,380       12,420       31,740                  89
LUDOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                     -           1,700        4,900       12,100       14,400       33,100                  90
Sub-Total                                  -           3.400       11.140       23,480       26.820       64.840                  90
Vehicles Maintenance & Operating Cost
MAHAMA-ZOMbODZE RDA                       6,000        6,000        6,000        6,000        6,000       30,000                  70
LUBOMlO-MPOLONJENT RDA                     -           6,000        6,000        6,000        6,000       24,000                  70
OTHER RDA'S                                -          12,000       36,000       42,000       42,000      132,000                  70
Sub-Total                                 6.000       24.000       48.000       54.000       54,000      186.000                  70
Total Recurrant Costs                     9.600       40.200       75.940       94,280       97.620      317,640                 6
Total Investment Costs                   27,600      196.800      309,740      281.680      279.020    1,094,840                  81
September 28, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(c) Land Development and Consolidation and Conservation Works
Development Costs
(Emalangeni)
Year I             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4              Year 5          Total Years 1-5      Foreign Expenditure
Unit    Unit Cost 1,      Units      Cost     Units      Cost     Units     Cost    Units       Cost      Units     Cost      Units     Cost            Component
%
Terracing & Grass Strips
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Terracing:  Full                  ha             65           100      6,500      100      6,500      150      9,750     150       9,750     100       6,500      600    39,000                70
Reduced Level 2/     ha             25            300      7,500     400      10,000     500      12,500     500     12,500      300      7,500    2,000    50,000                 70
Removal & Realignment of
Grass Strips                    ha            15            600      9,000      600      9,000      600      9,000     600       9,000     600       9,000    3,000    45,000                70
Removal of Grass Strips           ha             10           500       5,000     500      5,000      500      5,000      500      5,000      500      5,000    2,500    25,000                70
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Terracing:  Full                  ha             65           -          -        500     32,500      500     32,500      500     32,500     500      32,500    2,000   130,000                70
Reduced Level 2/      ha            25            -         -         750     18,750     750      18,750     750      18,750     750      18,750    3,000    75,000                70
Removal & Realignment of
Grass Strips                    ha             15           -         -       1,000     15,000   1,000      15,000   1,000      15,000   1,000      15,000    4,000    60,000                70
Removal of Grass Strips           ha             10           -          -      1,250     12,250   1,250      12,250   1,250      12,250   1,250      12,250    5,000    49,000                70
Sub-Total                                                        28 000             109.000             114,750             114.750             106.500             473.000
Land Development
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Artificial Waterways              Km          1,700             4      6,800        4      6,800        4      6,800        4      6,800        4      6,800        20    34,000               70
Homesite Levelling                No.            80           200    16,000       200     16,000      200     16,000      200     16,000      200     16,000    1,000    80,000                70
Dongs Rehabilitation              No.           750             6     4,500         6      4,500        6      4,500        6      4,500        6      4,500        30    22,500               70
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Artificial Waterways              Km          1,700           -         -           6     10,200        6     10,200        6     10,200        6     10,200        24    40,800               70
Homesite Levelling                No.            80           -         -         250     20,000      250     20,000      250     20,000      750     20,000    1,000    80,000                70
Dongs Rehabilitation              No.           750           -         -           4      3,000        4      3,000        4      3,000        2      1,500        14    10,500               70
Sub-Total                                                       27.300               60.500              60 500              60,500              59 000             267.800               70
irrigation and Fisheries
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Fish Ponds                                                             5,000               5,000               5,000               5,000              10,000              30,000               70
Irrigation Schemes                                                     7,500                 -                 7,500                -                  7,500              22,500               70
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Fish Ponds                                                                                 10,000             10,000              10,000               5,000              35,000               70
Irrigation Schemes                                                       _                 7.500               7,500               7,500               7 500              30.000               70
Sub-Total                                                       12,500              2Z.500              30.000              2 500                30U,               117.500               70
Total Development Costs                                          67.800             192.000             205 250             197,750             195.500             858.300               70
1/ The unit costs are based on the Ministry of Agriculture Land Development Unit 1976-77 rates adjusted as necessary.  These rates generally reflect the cost of materials and supplies, and labor.
2/ Reduced level terracing is on average about 60% less intensive than full terracing.
September 20, 1976



ANNEK 11
Table 12
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(c) Land Development and Consolidation and Conservation Works
Maintenance and Operating Costs
(Emalangeni)
----------------------------- Year ------------------------------                      Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                       1            2            3             4             5               6-20                 Component
Terraces Maintenance 1/
MAHAMMA-ZOMBODZE RDA                  -           1,000       1,500         2,000         2,500              2,500                    5Q
LUBOMRO-MPOLONJENI RDA                -             -          1,500        3,000         4,500              6,000                    50
Sub-Total                                         1,000       3.000         5.000         7.000             8,500                     50
Irrigation & Fisheries Operating Cost 2/
MAHAM9A-ZOMB0DZE RDA
Waterways                                -             700        1,000         1,400         1,500             1,500                    50
Fish Ponds                               -             500          700         1,000         1,500             1,500                    50
Irrigation Schemes                       -             400          800           700         1,100             1,100                    50
LUDOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Waterways                                -              -         1,000         1,500        2,100              2,600                    50
Fish Ponds                                              -         1,000         1,500        2,000              2,300                    50
Irrigation Schemes                                      -          800         1,100         1,400              1,900                    50
Sub-Total                                        1.600        5.300         7,200         9.600            10,900                     50
Total                                 _          2,600        8,300        12,200        16,600             19,400                    50
1/ The Land Development Section estimates the standard maintenance cost of terraces at E1.65 per ha per annu.
2/ The standard annual maintenance costs are: Waterways E85 per Ks; Fish Ponds E250 each; Irrigation Schemes E375 each.
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 13
SWAZ ILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(c) Land Development and Consolidation and Conservation Works
Summary of Investments
(Emalaageni)
Foreign Exchange
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                                   --        ----------- ------------Year--------_-_ -__-_-___-Component
1           2             3             4              5            1-5                    /
Development Costs:
Terracing and Crass Strips
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                             28,000        30,500        36,250        36,250         28,000       159,000               70
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                              -          78,500        78,500        78,500         78,500       314,000               70
Sub-Total                                     28.000      109,000       114750             750       106.500        473,000              70
Land Development
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                             27,300        27,300        27,300         27,300        27,300       136,500               70
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                              -          33,200        33,200        33,200         31,700       131,300               70
Sub-Total                                     27,300       60.500         60,500        60,500         59,000       267,800              70
Irrigation and Fisheries
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                             12,500         5,000        12,500          5,000        17,500         52,500              70
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENT RDA                              -          17,500        17,500         17,500        12,500        65,000               70
Sub-Total                                     12,500       22,500         30,000        22_500         30.000       17500                70
Total Development Costs                       67,800      192,000        20250         1977Li50       195500        858_300              70
MainLenance Operating Costs:
Terraces Maintenance
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                                -           1,000         1,500          2,000         2,500          7,000              50
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                              -            -            1,500          3,000         4,500          9,000              50
Sub-Total                                                    1.000         3 000         500            7 0          16,000              50
Irrigation and Fisheries Operation
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA                                -           1,600         2,500          3,100         4,100         11,300              50
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA                              -            -            2,800         4,100          5,500        12,400               50
Sub-Total                                                   1.600          5.300         7,200          9.600        23,700              50
Total Maintenance and operating Costs                       2.600          8.300        12_200         16,600        39_700              50
Total Investment Costs                        67.800      194.600        213,550       209_950        212.100       898.000              69
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 14
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOFPMEWT PROJECT
(d) Incremental Crop Inwpts
Incre,ental Input Costs
(Ealangeni)
UVXSTNENTt CATEGORY             Unit        Unit Cost5/        ear 1               Year 2                  Year 3                 Year 4                  YeCr 5             Total Years 1-5         Foreign Expenditures
Fertilizers 1/                  ton             100         380     38,000        900      90,000      1,530     153,000      2,295      229,500      2,805    280,500       7,910    791,000                100
Insecticides 2/               kg or 1           1.5     6,000      9,000     13,333     20,000      24,000      36,000     36,000       54,000     44,000     66,000    123,333    185,000                 100
Materials I/                  sets             30         133      4,000         295      8,850        500      lS,ooO         750      22,500        917     27,500       2,595     77,850                100
Seeds 4/                      tons            165         145     24.000        340     56 150         582      96, oo        873      144.000      1,067    176 000       3,007    496.150                 50
Total Cost                                                     75,00                 175.000                300 002 0               45Q000                550 000              1,550.noo                 84
Total Incremental Cost                                         75_000                100.000                125_000                 150.000               100.000                550,000                 84
1/ Principal fertilizers purchased would be 2-3-2, L.A.N., Double Super Phosphate, and Lime
2/ Principal insecticides required would be Lindare diptrex, Sevin, Thiodan, EDB, Cotton sprays,annd Dithoie
3/ Potato sacks, cotton sprayers, and miscellaneous tools.
4/ For maize, cotton, potatoes, beans, groundnuts, tobacco (nurselings), vegetables, and fruit trees.
5! Average price for various ites.
September 28, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(a) Agricultural Credit
Fixed Investments
(Emalangeni)
Year 1                Year 2                 Year 3                     Years 1-5                      ForeLgn Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY          Unit           Unit Cost     Units       Cost       Units      Cost        Units      Cost         Totnits its       Total Cost                Component
Housing 1/
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Two-bedroom House             No.              8,000         1        8,000          -                                                 1             8,000                    55
LUBOMBO-SPOLONJENI RDA
Two-bedroom House             No.              8,000         -          -            1       8,000          -         -                 1            8,000                    55
OTHER RDA'S
Two-bedroom Houses            No.              8,000         -          -            4      32,000         3       24,000              7            56.000                    55
Sub-Total                                                          8,000                 40.000                24.oOQ                            72,ooo                    55
Vehicles
MAHAMBA-ZONBODZE RDA
Collection Van                No.              5,000          1       5,000                                                            1             5,000                   100
Automobile                    No.              3,700          1       3,700                                                            1             3,700                   100
Bicycles                      No.                100          5         500          -                      -         -                5               500                   100
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Collection Van                No.              5,000         -           -           1       5,000          -                          1             5,000                   100
Automobile                    No.              3,700         -           -           1       3,700                                     1             3,700                   100
Bicycles                      No.                100         -           -           5         500          -         -                5               500                   100
OTHER RDA'S
Collection Vans               No.              5,000         -           -           4      20,000         3       15,000              7            35,000                   100
Automobiles                   No.              3,700         -           -           4      14,800          3      11,100              7            25,900                   100
Bicycles                      No.                100         -           -          12       1,200          9         900             21             2,100                   100
Sub-Total                                                          9,200                 45,200                 27,000                          81,400                   loo
Total                                                             17                     85200                  51.000                          153,400                    79
1/ The houses are PWD standard 7624/1.  They would be home and office to the credit ad-visors.
September 3, 1976



ANNEX 11
SWAZIIAND                                                             Table 16
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(e) Agricultural Credit
Incremental Recurrent Costs
(Emalangeni)
------------------------------ Year ----------                                     Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                     1            2           3            4             5            6-20                  Component
Salaries 1/ 2/
MA'AMBA- ZOMBODZE RDA
Credit Advisor                        2,000       2,000       2, 000        2,000        2,000          2,000                      0
Credit Assistants                     6,000       6,000       6,000         6,000        6,000          6,000                      0
LUBOMgO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Credit Advisor                         -          2,000       2,000         2,000        2,000          2,000                      0
Credit Assistants                      -          6,000       6,000         6,000        6,000          6,000                      0
OTHER RDA'S
Credit Advisors                        -          8,000       14,000       14,000       14,000         14,000                      0
Credit Assistants                      -         14,400      25,200        25,200       25,200         25,200                      0
Sub-Total                          8,000      38,400      55,200        55,200       55,200         55,200                      0
Building Maintenance 3/
Housing:
MAHAMBA-ZOMbODZE RDA                -            200          200          200          200            200                     50
LUbOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA              -           -            200           200          200            200                     50
OTHER RDA'S                         -           -            800         1,400        1,400          1,400                     50
Sub-Total                                        200       1,200         1,800        1,800          1,800                     50
Vehicle Maintenance & Operation 4/
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Collection Van                        2,400       2,400       2,400         2,400        2,400          2,400                     70
Automobile                            1,800       1,800        1,800        1,800        1,800           1,800                    70
Bicycles                               -           -             100         -            -               100                    100
LIUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Collection Van                         -          2,400       2,400         2,400        2,400          2,400                     70
Automobile                             -          1,800        1,800        1,800        1,800           1,800                    70
Bicycles                               -            -           -             100         -              -                        70
OTHER RDA'S
Collection Vans                        -          9,600       16,800       16,800       16,800         16,800                     70
Automobiles                            -          7,200       12,600       12,600       12,600          12,600                    70
Bicycles                               -            100          100          100          100            100                    100
Sub-Total                          4,200      25X300      38,00         38,000       37,900         38,000                     70
Total                             12.200      63,90       94,400        95,000       94,900         95.000                     28
1/ A credit advisor's annual salary cost is E2,000, which includes benefits and allowances.  Nine credit advisors would be assigned to RDA'S.
2/ A credit assistant's annual salary cost is E1,200. Thirty-one credit assistants would be recruited in the RDA'S.
3/ P.W.D. estimates building maintenance costs to average about 27. of construction cost.
4/ Based on estimated average mileage and CTO consultory charge.
September 9, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 17
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(e) Agricultural Credit
Summary of Investments
(Emalangeni)
Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                  - ----- ------------------- Year ----                                   Component
1          2           3           4           5           1-5
Fixed Investments:
Housing
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA            8,000        -           -           -           -           8,000            55
LUBOIBO-MPOLONJENI RDA           -          8,000        -           -           -           8,000           55
OTHER RDA'S                      -         32,000      24,000        -           -          56,000           55
Sub-Total                       8,000      40,000      24      _  0                         72,000           55
Vehicles
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA            9,200        -           -           -           -           9,200          100
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA           -          9,200        -           -           -           9,200          100
OTHER RDA'S                      -         36,000      27,000        -           -          63,000          100
Sub-Total                       9,200      45,200      27,000                    _          81,400          100
Total Fixed Investments        17,200      85,200      51,000         -           -        153,400           79
Recurrent Costs:
Salaries
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA            8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       40,000             0
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA           -          8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       32,000             0
OTHER RDA'S                      -         22,400      39,200      39,200      39,200      .40,000             0
Sub-Total                       8,000      38,400      55,200      55,200      55,200      2190               0
Operating Costs:
Building Maintenance & Vehicles
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA            4,200       4,400       4,500       4,400       4,400       21,900           69
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA           -          4,200       4,400       4,500       4,400       17,500           69
OTHER RDA'S                      -         16,900      30,300      30,900      30,900      109,000           69
Sub-Total                       4,200      25,500      39,200      39,800     39,700      148,400            69
Total Recurrent Ccsts          12,200      63,900      94,4D0      95,000      94,900      360,400           28
Total Investment Costs         29,400    149,100    145,400        95,000      94,900      513,800           44
September 28, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELO1'MENI PROJECT
(f)  Road Ievoloont5
Investment Costs
(Emalangeni)
IN\7ESTMENT CATEGORY            Unit      Unit Cant 2/             yeer 1 3/              Year 2                 Year 3                 Year 4                 Year 5                          Years 1-S                    F    Comi,.aponendit-
Units      Cost       Units       Cost       Units       Cost       Uoits       Cost       Units       Cost            Totsl Units      Total Coot                    X
FIXED INVESTMENTS
MAHANBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Road Isprovenent -               Fm          200                16        3,200        16       3,200         16        3,200        16       3,200         16       3,200                 80             16,oOO                   70
Drifts                           No.       3,800                 1       3,800          1       3.800          1       3,800          1       3,800          1       3,800                  5             19,000                   50
Sob-Total                                                           7,000                  7,0-                  7,o00o                 . O.O                  7.000                                 5                       59
LUBOMBO-MPOLONGENI RDA
Nas Road Constructi-n   /        rsm         750                14      10,500         14       10,500        14      10,500         14      10,500         14      10,500                 70             52,500                   70
Road Improvem-nt                 Km;          200               33        6,600        33       6,600         33       6,600         33       6,600         33       6,600                165             33,000                   70
Sob-Total                                                          171.00                 17,100                 17,100                 17,100                 17,100                                 _,500                   70
crrHER RDA'S
New Road Constru-tion  K/ t;m                750                175    131,250        175     131,250        175     131,250        175     131,250        175     131.250                 875            656,250                  70
Culverts                         No.         385                58       22,330        58      22,330         58      22,330         58      22,330         56      21,560                288            110,880                   5o
Drifts                           No.       3,800                 6      22,800          6      22,800          6      22,800          6      22,800          7      26,600                 31            117,800                   50
Bridges                          No.      17,250                 1      17,250          1      17,250         -         -             1      17,250          1      17.250                  4             69,000                  100
Sob-Total                                                         193,630                193,o30                176,380                193,630                196.660                              953_930                    67
Total                                                                                    217,730                200.480                217.T30               2207.76                             ________                     67
i:CMEI.T COSTS3
Road Maintenanie
MAHA3MA-ZO85ODZ1E RDA      Ks.          100                 8         800         24       2,400         40       6,000         56       5,600         72      7,200                                20,00 oOo5
LUBOiMO-MPOLONJENI RDA    KsM           100                24       2,400         71       7,100        118      11800        165      16,50o        212     21,200                                590000                    50
OTHER ROA'S                Ke           100                88       8.800        265      26.500        442      44,200        619      61,900        796     79,600                               221,oO0                    50
Sob-Total                                                          L2,000                 36.000                 60,000                 84,ooo                108.000                              300,000                    50
Maintenna.e of 8ridges. Drifts
& Culverts
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA    Constrottion 4/ 5X                             loo                    300                   400                     500                   1)'                                 2,000                   50
OThER RDA'S              Cons trution 4/ 5T                          1,600                  4.700                  7,800                 Io, 900                   00 ~'CI                           39.000                   50
cast
Sob-Total                                                           1.700                   5.00e                  8,200                11,40o                 14,700                               41,000                    50
Total                                                                     13_700                  41.000                68.200                 9_5400               122,700                               341.000                   5e
Grand Total                                                              231,430                 258,730               268,680                3U3,130               343,460                             1,415,434                   63
1/   Ac-ess roads free the farm holdingo to the servicing centers.  These roads art 7 m. wide a-ud shaped, but nt grvelled.                                                                                                                    >
2/   Rectrrent .nit toots are per annom.                                    at
3/1   A certain amount of rai.t ...... will be required to the first yeer aftr the rainy  e6n, 
4/    P.W.D. and the Land  -evelopment Unit .oo 5X of the construction costs as standard  -oiotonooco coot.                                                                                                                                    -
September P8, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(g) Social Infrastructure
Fixed Investments
(Emalangeni)
Year 1                Year 2               Year 3                Year 4                Year 5                    Years 1-5                 Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                 Unit     Unit Cost      Units        Cost      Units       Cost     Units       Cost      Units       Cost      Units       Cost      Total Units      Total Cost             Component
Rural Health
Buildings
MARAMEA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Addition to Rural Clinic            No.          11,000         1        11,000      -           -         -           _        _            _         _           _            1              11,000               50
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Rural Clinics                       No.          43,700         1        43,700       1        43,700      -           -         -           -         -           -            2              87,400               50
Sub-Total                                                             54,700                43.700                                                                                          98.400               50
Vehicles and EquiPment
MAhAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Ambulance                           No.          11,500         -            -        1        11,500      -           -         -           -         -           -            1               11,500             100
Medical Equipment & Supplies        Set           1,700         -           -         1         1,700      -           -         -           -         -           -            1                1,700             100
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Ambulances                          No.          11,500         -            -        1        11,500       1        11,500      -           -         -           -            2               23,000              100
Medical Equipment & Supplies        Set           1,700         -           -         1         1,700       1         1,700      -           -         -           -            2                3,400              100
Sub-Total                                                                                   26,400                13,200                                                                    39,600              100
Total                                                                 54.700                70,100                13.200                                                                    138,000              64
Rural Water Supplies
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA             No.           3,500         5        17,500       5        17,500       5        17,500      5         17,500      5         17,500        25              87,500               60
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA          No.            3,500         6        21,000       6        21,000       6        21,000      6         21,000      6         21,000        30              105,000              60
OTHER RDA'S                     No.            3,500         2         7,000       2         7,000       3        10,500      -            -        -           -            7              24,500               60
Total                                                                 45 500                                                            38,500                38,500                        217000                60
Grand Total                                                          100,200               115,600                62,200                38,500                38,500                        355,000               62
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 20
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PP,0JECT
(g) Social Infrasfrycture
Recurrent Costs
(Emalangeni)
- ---------------------------- Year --------------                              Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                  1           2           3           4              5             6-20             Component
Rural Clinics Maintenance 1/
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA               -        1,100       1,100       1,100         1,100           1,100               50
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA             -        1,200       1,800       1,800         1,800           1,800               50
Sub-Total                                  2,300        2,900       2.900         2,900           2,900              50
Water Supplies Maintenance 2/
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA               -        1,300       2,200       3,100         4,000           4,000               50
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA             -        1,600       2,600       3,700         4,800           4,800              50
OTHER RDA'S                        -          600         900       1,300         1,300           1,300               50
Sub-Total                                  3,500        5.700       8.100        10,100          10,100              50
Vehicles & Equipment
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA
Ambulance 3/                          -        5,000       5,000       5,000          5,000          5,00 70
Medical Supplies                      -          500         500         500            500                             70
LUBONBO-MPOLONJENI RDA
Ambulances 3/                         -        5,000      10,000      10,000         10,000         10,000              70
Medical Supplies                      -          500       1,000       1,000          1,000          1,000              90
Sub-Total                                 11,000      16,500      16,500          16,500         16,500              72
Total                                     16,800       25,100     27,500         29,500          29,500              65
I/ P.W.D. estimates that building maintenance costs average about 2% of coastruction cost per annum.
2/ P.W.D. estimates that water Supplies maintenance costs average about 5% of construction cost per annum.
3/ Based on estimated average mileage.
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 21
SIAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(g) Social Infrastructure
Summary of Investments
(Emalangeni)
Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                 ------------------------- -  Year --- ---                             Component
1          2           3           4          5           1-5
Rural Health:
Rural Clinics
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA          11,000       1,100       1,100       1,100      1,100       15,400         50
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA        43,700      44,900       1,800       1,800      1,800       94,000         50
Sub-Total                     54,700      46,000       2,900       2,900      2,900      109,400         50
Vehicles and Equipment
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA             -        18,700       5,500       5,500      5,500       35,200         83
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA          -         18,700      24,200      11,000     11,000       64,900         83
Sub-Total                                 37,400      29,700      16,500     16,500      100,100         83
Total Rural Healtb            54,700      83 A40      32,600      19,400     19,400      209,500         66
Water Supplies :
MAHAMBA-ZOMBODZE RDA          17,500      18,800      19,700      20,600     21,500       98,100         59
LUBOMBO-MPOLONJENI RDA        21,000      22,600      23,600      24,700     25,800      117,700         59
OTHER RDA'S                     7,000      7,600      11,400       1,300      1,300       28,600         59
Total Water Supplies          45,500      49,000      54,700      46,600      48,600     244,400         59
Total Social Infrastructure 100,200    1!O 8300                   66,000     68,000      453,900         62
September 14, 1976



SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(h) Pro1ect Management Services
Investment Costs
(Emblangeni)
Year 1              Year 2               Year 3               Year 4               Year 5                   Years 1-5                Foreign Expenditure
INVESTMENT CATEGORY             Unit        Unit Cost    Units        Cost     Units      Cost      Units      Cost      Units      Cost      Units      Cost     Total Units       Total Cost           Component
yehicles & Equipment -
Fixed Investment
Automobiles                      No.             3,700        4      14,800    -           _          _          _         _          _         _                        4            14,800                100
Office Equipment                 Set             2,800        1       2,800    -                                                                                         1             2,800                 80
Sub-Total                                                       17.600                                                                                                           17.600                 97
Operating Costs & Supplies
Automobiles 1/                   No.             1,800        4       7,200    4          7,200       4         7,200      4         7,200      4         7,200         20            36,000                  70
Office Stationery                Set             1,200        1       1,200    1          1,200       1         1,200      1         1,200      1         1,200          5             6,000                 50
Sob-Total                                                        8.400               8,400                8.400                8.400                8.400                        42.000                 67
Salaries & Benefits
Chief Coordinator 2/             Man-year      45,000         1      45,000    1         45,000       1        45,000      1       45,000       1       45,000           5           225,000                 80
Deputy Chief Coordinator         Man-year        3,500        1       3,500    1          3,500       1         3,500      1         3.500      1        3,500           5            17,500                  0
Manager 2/                       Nan-year       40,000        1      40.000    1         40,000       1        40,000      1        40,000      1       40,000           5           200,000                 80
Controller                       Man-year       35,000        1      35,000    1         35,000       1        35,000      1        35,000      1       35,000           5           175,000                 80
Sociologist                      Man-year        3,000        1       3,000    1          3,000       1         3,000      1         3,000     1         3.000           5            15,000                  0
Support Staff                    Man-year        1,100        3       3,300    3          3,300       3         3,300      3         3,300     3         3,300          15            16,500                  0
Sub-Total                                                      129,800             129.800              129.800                 001.29,                                        649.000                  74
Total                                                          155,800             138,200              138.200              138.200              138_200                       708.600                 74
1/ Operating Costs of vehicles reflect estimated mileage.
2/ The positions of Chief Coordinator and Manager may be provided bilaterally. In that case, the cost may be lower,
September 28, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                               t z



SWAZILANJ
RURAL DEVELOPtlEN2 PROJEir
(i) Technical Sa.ina-s
InoasIttent Costs
(E]og)enl7
iN?ESTHEVvT CATEGORY                      Unit      Ullt Cst       Units        Cet                Units  Cos  olts      Cost     Units       Coot       Wit        Cost5     Table Os,in      Total Cost -o,Ponent
_eoboinal _A/sena.
Crop & Li-etoak Adnitory Seroines        M.n-year   35,000            2       70,000       2      70,000       2        70,000       0       70,000       2        70,000            10          350,000                 80
Training
Exteraion Staff  - 1  Senite and         Tnais.e      3,200          I5       48,000      10      32,000      10        32,000      to       32,000      10        32JotO            55          176,000                 25
Certifiree. rLnI                          por --nu0
Usneratr  treiniag                       Trainee        200         125       25,000    125        25,000    125        25,non    125         25,00C    120        24,ooC                        124,000                 25
per vseekI
Sob-Total Training                                                         737000              57,000                50,000                57,0OO               56,000                        300,000                 25
Linet.obk Marketing Study                M6an-Eoth   6,000            6       36,000                 -    -               -          -6,000 
Project Preparetion, Stodies                                                                                                        L2         2          12       72
S,b-Tntal 7ealhaioal Aseitsan-o,                                          154_000             102_00               ,102,00       1       174,000               1714,000                      706 4000
Tr-ising & Con-ulting.
Weaitornl a *i'e.1atlaeio
FIXED iNVESTMENTS
Fourt-weal drina  -ohinln                 No,        5,600           2       tl,70-                                                     -                 .         -                2          11,200                 100
Ent-arato- Teen ins.   1/                  Set        2,300           2        4,600       -        _          -                     _                      ,        _                 2           4,600                 too
Sub-Total Fined Inreotents                                                 15.800                                                                                                              15 800                 100
OPERATING COSTS
Vehitlen
Four-wheel drine o-hinlns 2/              No  per     4,600           2        9,200       2        9,200      2         9,200       2         9,200       2        9,200                         46,000                  70
Eq0 ipe.eot
Fan-erator Than G-tr                     Set per         700          2        1,400       2        1,400      2         1,400       2         1,400      2        1,400                           7,000                 100
Comput  tinr-,  -seds                     Set per    15,000            1      15,000       1       15,000       1       15,000       1        15,000       1        15,000            5           75,000                 100
end Sh-bee                             oasa
s.lariee and Wages 3f
scatrltdlaD                               Man-year   11,300            1      01,300       1       11,300       1       11i30        1        20,300       1        11,300I                       06,500                  60
Agricultiral E- ion irt                   Man-year   11,300            1      11,300       I       11,300       1       11,300       1        11,300       1        11,300                        56,500                  60
Field Enumerator                          is-year    3, 7003 1                 5,700       1        3,700       1        3,700       1                     3.700  2  3,700                        18,500                  20
in_rator Teeas                           Man-year    8,000            2       16.000       2      16,000       2        16,000       2        16,00o       2       16,0C0                         SO,oo0                   0
DSniers                                  Man-year    1,100            2        2,200       2       2,200       2         2,200       2         2,200       2        2,200                         11,000                   0
S,b-Total Operating Costs                                                  701000                                    70A700               707100                                              30_500                   47
Total Mo-it-irrg A E-nlooni-                                               83,900              70.100                70 100               70.105                731l00                        366 300
Grnd Tot.i Tenhninal Semite                                               26400               _9710                 1 029.100                                  068. i6S00                 fJ96,3_00                   61
1/ Tentn, g.e  noober-  and other field gear>
2/ BSoad on e-ni-st-d nil-go,  Sre also labli  5, A--ns 11i
3/ Iloding alo-n-e- share epplioble.  See aLso Tohln 4, Anen 11                                                                                                                                                                r n_
Septemben 20, 1974



ANDEN) 12
Table 
SWAZILA,ND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sonnary of Annual Project Cosca
iiEmalsge-i)
PROJECT COLPONENT                                    -----------------         Project Y- - ------------To------            Tntal Years           Foreign
1            2             3             4             5                 1-5           Eope-dicures
S-i-  &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(a)    Etcension Services & Icirootructore
Buildings & Insctllstion-                     103,400       311,800      239,900       194,800        74,200            924,100            545,219
Vehicles & Equipme-t                           76,700       277,000        63,600        31,800         -               449,100            449,100
Wages & Salaries                               64,500       208,800       261,600      284,400       284,400          1,103,700
Vehicle & Eqoipme-t Operating Costs            31,900       153,300       155,700      156,900       156,900            654,700            458,290
Other Occurrent Costs                           6,30         14,100        29,800       37.900        39,400           12_7,00              80.325
sob-l.-cal                                    282,800       965,000       750,600      725,80C       554.900          3259,100           1,532 934
(b)   Livestock Develop-ent
St-ko-te- Dlame and Dipta-ks                     -           24,200       48,400        20,000        20,000            112,600             77,690
Fencirg                                          _           70,400       70,400        70,400        92,400            303,600            242,880
Pasntre Im.rov.e.nt                                           8,000       61,000        61,000        69,000            199,000            140,590
Cattle Macketing                               18,000        54,000       54,000        36,000          -               162,000            162,000
Wsges &  Ialaries                              32600         12,800        16,800       16,800        16,800             66,800               -
Other Operating Cests                           6,000        27,400       59.140        77.480        80,820            250,840            173.600
Sob-Total                                      27,60        196,80       309,740       281,680       279,020          1,094,840            796,760
(c)   Land Devnloepment & Conservetion SorEs
Inrracig & Grano Strips                        28,000       109,000       114,750      114,750       106,500            473,000            311,100
Land Development                               27,300        60,500       60,500        60,500        59,000            267,800            187,460
Irrigation & Pisheries                         12,S00        22,500       30,000        22,500        30,000            117,500             82,250
Miantenane-    & Operatieg Ct                    -            2_600         8,300       12,200        16.600             39_ 700            19,850
Sob-Total                                      67,390       194,60       213,550       209,950       212,100            898.000            620.660
(d)   Iooremental Crop Inputs
Fer tilizers                                  38,000        52,000        63,000        76,555        51,000            280,500            280,500
Eseecticides                                   9,000        11,000        16,000        18,000       12,000             66,000              66,000
Seeds                                         .4,000         4,850         6,150         7,500         5,080             27,500             27,500
Materials                                      24.000       32.150        39,850        48,000        32.000            176,000             88.000
Sub-Total                                    275.000       100,000       125,000       150,000       100.000            550.000            462,000
(e)   l       ..cul Iural Credic
Ouildiogo & lvstalltcion                        8,000       40,700        24,000          -             -                72,000             39,600
< ehiclet                                       9,200       45,200        27,000          -             -                81,400             81,400
8,000       38,400        55,200        55,200        55,200            212,000               -
Ocer .p.e..ing Costs                             9200        25,500        39,200       39.800        39.700            148.400            102.400
Sub-Total                                      29,400       149,100       145,400       95.000        94,900            513,800            233,400
(f)  Road Deveplonent
Roed Ilpr--sment                              217,730       217,730       200,480      217,730       220,760          1,074,430            719,868
aiuenenane Costs                             j19790         41,000        68,200        95.400      122_700            341.00             17050
Sub-T-l o23439                                              258,730       268,680      313,130       343,460          1,415,430            890,368
(g)   Social Onfrestroorore
Clinic   W Eater Supply Development           100,200        89,200       49,000        38,500        38,500            315,400            179,400
Vehicles & Equipment                             -           26,400        13,200         -             -                39,600             39,600
Operatieg Coot,                                              16,800       25,100        27500         29,500             98,900             64,290
Sob-Total                                     100,200       132,400       87,300        66,000        68.000            453,90             283,290
(h)   Pro-ect Meagaement Services
Tebicles & Equipment                           17,600          -             -            -             -                17,600             17,070
Operating Costs                                 8,            8400          0,400        8 ,400        8,400             42,000             28,140
Salarine  - inlEatriates                      120,000       120,000      120,000       120,000       120,000            600,000            480,000
Isleries - Owaci Staff                         9.800          9,800        9,800         9,800         9,800             49,000               -
Sob-TotAl                                     155,800       38,200        138,200      138,200       138_200            708.90     0       525,210
(i)   Technical Services
Techni-sl Assistance                           70,000        70,00        70,000        70,000        70,000            350,000            28U,0 0
Tr-ining                                       73,000        57,000        57,000       57,000        56,000            500,000              750000
Stodies                                        36,000          -             -          72,000        72,000            180,000            144,000
Monitoring & Evalsstion                        85.900        70.100        70,100       70.100        70.100            366.300             183,150
Sob-Total                                     264,900       197,100       197,100      269,100       268,100          1,196,300            682,150
Total Pr-ejet In-etmencs                    1,234,930    2,351,930    2,235,570    2,228,860    2,058,680            10,089,970          6,026,772
Co-tinaenc- Alle.a..na
Physical                                      123,493       253,193       223,557      222,886       205,868          1,008,997            602,677
Price 2/                                      162,577       575.877      800,873    1.039.254    1.198.452            3.777,033          2.444.951
Total Coetinge-cies                           286,070       809,070    1,024,430    1,262,i40    1,404,320            4,786,030          3,047,628
TOTAI. PROJECT COSTS                        1,521,000    3,141,000    1,260,000    3,491,V00    3,463,000            14,876,000          9.074.00
1/ S1c As-nu 11 Tables for furche- details
2/  Price Contingencies are based on IBRD/IDA guidelines ..d nissien estimates as flless:
Foceign E-shange Costs   1977    1978    1979    1980-82
Civil Woeks               12       12      12        10
Equip -ent                 8       8        8        7
Tec-viu-I Assiscanve       8        8       8         7
local Costs                13        9       8         8
November 22, 1976



-1.  9 .... di-   -1- ~          ~           000, 
141  .i, ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ OALPlOt520   001
tot    Ott  1.000  -  -      -                           -          -                     ~~~~                ~ ~ ~                   ~         ~~~~~~               ~~~~           ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~- 9-  9  i-  -  00  OttO t,ot1   toot,
&  00,-ttooot             -         -~~~~~~~~51  -           -         tOo         Ott3                                                        3 -       669      iOtt             -                                    ,,0                                          1
0-0-0 Itits                                      -9                                 )                       t                                                           50       -          Ot            -'O                           -           Ittl                       -1         lot)
Itttotot 0 Etolpotot Opsosttog~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-1           -3         iO                      oo               -         -           --                                          z o                                       6 )  t                                21tt Ot         0
tlttot  ottloosot  toots           -~~~~~1                   7                                                                                              -        t           0            t                             -l                            O                    __
toO-toot)                   to)        Ott~~~~~~~~~1  to)       O           )         tt                                                            0         o        os              ttot                        6!___
01  to 0 00 t otlo too olotosot                   M3            ri~                                                                                                     1713,                                                 2                                    i10
-     -             -3        -                                                  -          --                             o          Ot            -                    -it                   t                35       tt            t61
Cttoto)otttttOoooOt               -        ttt           tOt         -~        ~      ~    ~ -1  3                      -          --                                               -                           17)        t           9t              33      301            tt
-  -         -         -           -           -                          -           -                     -      tOt         0)1~~~.        -                  t2t       3-          6t                t         Ot
tototototo 0 Ct stsoloo   7       tO)           030         -           -          -                -          -          -                     -        -~~~~~~~60  -03          -                    -0       -2          19t              131      65             .1
-   -  -   -   -   -     -          -           -                     -        tO         tt           3)                     0       00           tO               35       it            tO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54
2-         -             -1        -           1           3                                      --                             -          -             -6                             2            00                       t             t
Cool.                          -          -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  -5tto                              -          -                                                                           - itt                  0                            t         to
toOt-Ott                             -         -            -           -                      -                -          -          -                     -        70          70l -61  43  -                     a        0            0               -8      267            Itt
21"  I--Ot                                      o                     -           -                           -31--                                                                                                        A6               Al       3!              9
OtO-totol                   CCI       223           107                                                                                                       70         70                                tOO       tO t1  5                    000       030It
ttsdtstooototot  005  tOo  '.0)0   -  -   -             -          -          -                     -        -           -            -                    -       SIt          ttt              Ott    ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0,57342  1
00500     o;t       Ott         030           -          -           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31  -   -                               -        -                                              5              9is                             t              o
OttoIoroott          too    to'             Ito          -           -          ~~               ~~~ ~ ~                          ~          ~~~ ~~~                                       ~~~~~~~~~~- -2       -6    -~  t1              lo       2010
L                                                                                                                                            il.tAl Ot      -- -      U                               3tO                    d                00       2tto
002040157                                                                   0)          00           tt                    8       00           30              Ott~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24  OttO  tOt
)otto -sl     I....ot                     -.7      -2                           -           --                                     -           -                     -        17         10 111  - 5                         t     I.          3.3             t,    01                   007
tptOtso-                                      -                                                                          -         -           -007i                                                                         o       -000                                    00



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect Management
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Swazi officials recognize that data on progress and results
of on-going rural development projects are lacking, and plan to remedy
the situation through introduction of systematic monitoring and evalua-
tion in future. Monitoring and evaluation of progress under the proposed
Project would be the responsibility of the Economics and Farm Manage-
ment Section of the Ministry of Agriculture, which reports directly to
the Permanent Secretary. The Section has already initiated Project
monitoring activities in existing RDA's; survey teams were assembling
data on the southern RDA during Project appraisal.
2.        Agricultural statistics on overall Swazi Nation Land agricul-
tural patterns are the responsibility of the Statistical Office, within
the Ministry of Finance. The survey techniques employed do not, however,
at this stage allow for differentiation by specific areas (for example,
RDA's); new survey techniques (stratification) would be required in order
to permit the Statistical Office to extrapolate and compare relative
production increases in areas affected by, or not affected by Project
developments. It would appear, however, that the most effective way to
develop data on agricultural production under this and other projects
would be to build on current systems for assembling agricultural data
and improving them, rather than seeking to develop project specific data-
collection systems. In preparing proposals for monitoring and evaluation,
the Government should specifically address the issue of coordination
between activities of the Central Statistical Office, which should have
principal responsibility for production data, and the Economics Section
of the Ministry of Agriculture; sufficient resources to accomplish this
task should be available to the Statistical Office.
3.        The Ministry of Agriculture's monitoring and evaluation acti-
vities under the proposed Project would largely consist of assessment of the
Project's impact on farmers, and then the effectiveness of development and
extension programs. It would be directed by an agricultural economist who is
familiar with sociological issues, and would be focused on work by two survey
teams. Information would be gathered on agricultural practices and on
farmer attitudes affecting change or lack thereof. The surveys would be
specifically designed to furnish practical guidance to Project managers
on effectiveness of extension program and of extension staff.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        In assessing Project benefits, Project management would be
able to use as a broad set of targets the production projections for
each RDA prepared during Project preparation (Annex 10). These indicate
expected areas under crops, yields, numbers of farmers growing cash crops,
and a rubric of progression in yields, all by year of development.
September 22, 1976



ANNEX 13
Appendix I
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Staff
Proposed Terms of Reference
Chief Project Coordinator
1.        Experience would be the most important criteria for the selection
of the Chief Coordinator, although a formal qualification in agriculture
would be important. It is expected that the post would be filled by an ex-
patriate for five years; the position is likely to be funded by ODM.
2.        At least 10 years experience in successful agricultural develop-
ment work in the field, including development orientated projects, prefer-
ably in Africa, would be required. A high degree of administrative ability
and experience in dealing with senior Government officials, especially in
committee work, and previous experience in extension in small farmer com-
munities, would all be necessary.
3.        The responsibilities of the Chief Coordinator would be the overall
management of Ministry of Agriculture components, and the coordination of
all Project activities with the activities of other Government agencies and
local authorities. His duties would include:
(a) Control of all program and Project funds, with
the assistance of the Financial Controller;
(b) Establishment of a cost analysis and record-
keeping system which would enable Project
progress and achievement to be monitored
and a meaningful evaluation of the Project
impact to be carried out;
(c) Responsibility for Project personnel mat-
ters, with the assistance of the Deputy
Coordinator;
(d) Coordination of all Project components;
(e) Reporting Project progress to Government
through written reports and through Proj-
ect committees; and



ANNEX 13
Appendix I
Page 2
(f) Training Project staff and ensuring that a
proper management training program is imple-
mented.
Financial Controller
4.        The Financial Controller should be a professionally qualified
accountant, with additional training in business management. He should
have had at least ten years experience in a senior position in a large
public corporation or commercial company. If possible he would have knowl-
edge of Government procedures on procurement and stores. Previous employ-
ment involving work with senior Government officials would be an advantage.
5.        His principal responsibility would be the control of all Project
financial matters on behalf of the Chief Coordinator. His duties would
include:
(a) Preparation of annual work programs, budgets,
Cash flows, and estimates of expenditure for
the Project and ODM-financed program;
(b) Ensuring correct and timely application for
withdrawJ'- from the loan account;
(c) Supervision of procurement of all Project
goods and services, and responsibility for
all stores and requisites, with the assis-
tance of RDA Project Managers;
(d) Internal auditing of Project accounts.
Deputy Coordinator
6.        The Deputy Coordinator would be a senior civil servant or have
had similar experience in private industry. He should be a Swazi national.
In previous employment he should have undertaken senior administrative re-
sponsibility and have obtained a thorough understanding of Government pro-
cedures.  His duties would include:
(a) Support of the Chief Coordinator on all
matters, including deputizing for him in
his absence;
(b) Responsibility for all Project personnel
matters;
(c) Non-technical aspects of the Project, particularly relations
with the CRDB;
(d) General Project matters.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Page 3
Senior Rural Development Area's Manager
7.        The RDA manager would have direct responsibility for management
of RDA-level developments. RDA Project managers would report directly to
him and he would coordinate operations on a day to day basis. The manager
should have qualifications in agriculture, and at least two years experience
in a management position, preferably in a development Project in Africa.
Project Managers
8.        In each intensive RDA, a "Project Manager" would be assigned to
live in the area, and would manage and coordinate development programs
within the RDA. Managers could be either Swazis or technical assistants.
Qualifications should include training in agriculture and some management
experience.
Project Economist
9.        The Project Economist would be responsible for assessing the impact
of the project on the farmers in the Project area. He should have a Master's
Degree in farm management or agricultural economics and have had experience
in this field in a developing country. He should have knowledge of statis-
tical analysis and sampling procedures and it would be preferable if he were
familiar with systems of computerized data processing and analysis. He
would be responsible to the Senior Agricultural Economist in the Economics
and Farm Management Section of the Ministry of Agriculture. His duties
would include:
(a) directing the activities of two farm survey units within
the Project area;
(b) in conjunction with the Project coordinator, selecting
the areas to be sampled and the type and detail of data
to be gathered;
(c) selecting farmers for sampling by each unit;
(d) organizing the collection, processing and analysis of
the survey data;
(e) preparing reports and recommendations based on the results
of the above processing and analysis, and
(f) evaluating the impact of the Project by comparison of
observed data with the projected production costs and
benefits for specific management areas.
January 13, 1977



SWAZILAND                                                                                                 AN1EX 14
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                               Table .1
Project Implementation Plan
PROJECT COMPONENT                        1976                       1977                       1978                       1979                       1980                        1981                       1982
AND ACTIVITY                 Irta| 2nd   3rd    4th   Ist   2nd   3rd    4th   1st   2nd    3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   Ist   2nd   3rd   4th    1st   2nd   3rd    4th   lst   2nd   3rd    4th
PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES
Land-use Planning                                      _   _      _      _                                                                                      m _  _                                    m
Staff Recruitment and Appointment                        ~~~~Condition of         Submniss,on.of
Staff Recruitment and Appointment                      _ __-Effecti oeness                          Ann Effectiveness  Annual Programs
Investment Programming                                     m             _    t             I                                                                                                                 _
Training Program                                        January t=77                                      mi   =        _      _     _      _      __   ___ __            _ _  _J aCoti tuing
Loan Negotiations                                                   Ma,ch 1977
Loan Approval by 18RD
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
la) Project Center Construction                                                        2 Y    1               3                                           _ 2  3                                   _ 3              |
(b) Extension Development                   N  o n                                                                             _                                 _             _     _      _      _ mra Etiontin  uing
. Nation al Program   and  Extension  |                                                        _____________. _____                                                __ _________
Ic) Livestock Developments                                                                                                                                                                                           C m  m  m  =  =  =  = m  m  tonninuing
Mahamba-Zombodze                                                       Physical Developments                                          m                                                                      } Maintenance
Lubombo-Mpolonieni                                                     P h y s  l D e                                                                                          -      - l  __                  Mainte
(d) Land Development Works                                                                    m            m            m .  .  .  _      ,                                                                        Maintenance
(e) Farmer Credit Program                                                           I 1  1                       m 1  1                                                 m     m      m 1  _  _                      c ttinIg
(f) Road Development                                                            m  J .        m                   m                                              m 1                                                  nten n e_
(g) Soc,al Infrastructure                                                                                                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ftutre lProject Preparation
(h) Technical Sfraviructuresl                            ]     !      Z      l      l      l                   1     | Tecrnical As sistance and Training
Livestock Marketing Study                                     Monitoring and Evaluation
CONSULTATION WITH IBRD                                                I      I      I
Ministry Organzation                                                IDaring Negotiations                     Annual Consultation
Livestock ProgramsAnulCsltio 
Credit Programs                                                                                                           T I             I          T
Training of Si,azi StIaf
PROGRAMS AND REPORTS TO IBRD
Annual Programs                                                                                                           4                          4 |
Ouarterly Reports                                                             _        m     m      m      m             m
Audited Accounts                                 t                                                              I
KEY DATES 
Appraisal                                       __                                                                                ~i                                                                                    
Loan Effectiveness                            Apprais.a                                                                     i
Project Co-pletion,                                                       Effectiveness                                                                                                                                        1
Closing Date                                                                                                                                                                                                Completion
Project Year 1            Project Year 2              Project Year 3     j       Project Year 4            Project Year 5
World Bank-16507






ANNEX 15
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                            Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                 at end of Quarter
(US$'000)
1976/77
March 31, 1977
June 30, 1977  1/
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                              100
December 31, 1977                                               200
March 31, 1978                                                  300
June 30, 1978                                                  '400
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                              550
December 31; 1978                                               700
March 31, 1979                                                  850
June 30, 1979                                                 1,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                            1,200
December 31, 1979                                             1,400
March 31, 1980                                                1,600
June 30, 1980                                                 1,800
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                            2,000
December 31, 1980                                             2,200
March 31, 1981                                                2,400
June 30, 1981                                                 2,600
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                            2,800
December 31, 1981                                             3,000
March 31, 1982                                                3,200
June 30, 1982  2/                                             3,400
1982/83          -
September 30, 1982                                            3,600
December 31, 1982  3/                                         4,000
1/  Expected date of effectiveness, June 1, 1977
2/  Expected date of project completion, May 31, 1982
3/  Closing date, November 30, 1982
November 19, 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Finance
The Auditor General
1.        Section 133 of the 1968 Constitution requires the Auditor General
to audit the Public Accounts of Swaziland and all officers, courts and author-
ities of the Government of Swaziland. The Auditor General submits his audit
reports to the Minister of Finance and Economic Planning, who presents them
to the Council of Ministers.
2.        The Auditor General is responsible to Parliament, and his activ-
ities are supervised by the Public Accounts Committee; the twelve members of
the Public Accounts Committee are members of Parliament and Senators. The
Auditor General has a staff of twenty-one: a Deputy Chief, three principal
auditors and junior auditors. The junior auditors are trained on the job.
Nineteen staff are Swazis and two are expatriates. The Ministry of Finance
approved twenty-eight positions on the current budget, but seven are unfilled
due to the lack of adequately trained staff.
3.        Each District is audited four times a year.  A survey of the North-
ern RDA was recently conducted and the auditors reviewed the accounts of all
Government entities involved, obtained the working papers from the project
and verified the physical existence of the assets as per specifications pro-
vided. The Auditor General has only had a marginal involvement in self-help
community projects, but he indicated that closer supervision would be war-
ranted.
Customs Union Revenues
4.        Swaziland shares in the proceeds of the Customs Union with Botswana,
Lesotho and South Africa. The revenue sharing arrangement covers all sales
taxes, selective excises, and taxes on imports into the common customs area.
Customs union receipts ranged from 57% to 28% of total Government's current
revenues in the last five fiscal years and were the principal single item of
current revenue in the four fiscal years ended 1975. The sugar levy and
income taxes were higher than customs union receipts in fiscal year 1976.
The arrangements for sharing the proceeds of the customs union with Botswana,
Lesotho, and South Africa are being renegotiated in 1976. Currently South
Africa sets the tax rates. Revenues from these taxes are pooled. Swaziland's



ANNEX 16
Page 2
share of the pool is determined roughly in the same proportion as
Swaziland's imports to the imports into the Customs Union area. The
share so determined is then increased by 42% to compensate Swaziland
for its lack of control over the tax rates and the development gap
with South Africa. The excise and sales tax component of the Customs
Union payments is negligible. In the past four years, Customs Union
payments to Swaziland have averaged about 22% of Swaziland imports,
but that percentage is decreasing.
September 20, 1976



ANNEX 17
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
Government Project Related Funds Statement
(E '000)
1             2            3           4             5            6                  1-6                 1-25
StWRSCES OF FUNDS
Africao Development Bank  1/                  600           700         900         900           900         700                  4,700               4,700
Europe.. Development Fund 2/                  200          300          600         600           600         200                  2,500               2,500
Overseas Development Ministry
(UK) 2/                50            50          50          50            50          50                    300                 300
World Bank  3/                                400          500          700         700           700         500                  3,500               3,500
Farmers                                        -           100           -          100            -          100                    300               1,500
(Customs Uioon Revenues 4/                    100          200          400         400           500         200                  1,800               1.800
Total Sources                             1,350        1.50         2.65C       2,750        2,750        1 50                 13,100               14,300
USES OF FUNDS
African Development Bank 1/
-  interest & amortization                    -            -            -           -             -          373                    373              7,458
-  Commitment fee                             33           28           22          15             9           3                    110                 110
World Bank   3/
-  Amortization                               -            -            -           -             -          200                    200               3,500
-  Interest                                   17           55          106         166          225          268                   837                3,007
-  Commitnest fee                             25           21           17          11             6           3                     83                  83
Total Uses                                   75          104          145         192           240         847                 1,603               14,158
FUNDS SURPLUS                               1,275         1,746        2,505      2,558         2,510         903                11,497                  142
CUMULATIVE FUNDS SURPLUS                    1,275         3,021        5,526      8,084        10,594      11,497                11,497                  142
Nigerian Tr.s.  Furd Terms  -ould apply:
4/ interest
3/41G cormitment fee
25 years to final maturity
5 year grace period
level payment amortization
2/  Grant
3/  Terms:
8.5% in-erest
3/4 % commitment fee
20 years to final maturity
4~ year grace period
level principal amortization
4/ 20%. of Project Foreign Expenditures
Januar, 24, 1977



ANNEX 18
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Project Benefits
1.        Incremental crop production in Project RDA's was estimated follow-
ing models of parameters for inputs and outputs at different levels of devel-
opment, applied to estimated area under crops in each RDA (Annex 10). For
the economic analysis, a lag of one year was assumed to reflect delayed
phasing of investments; partial benefits were thus assumed for year 1.
2.        Incremental cattle sales were estimated on the basis of herd pro-
jections for the two intensive RDA's, and would result principally from in-
creased sales, some increases in herd productivity, and some improvement in
animal quality. Some incremental cattle sales should also occur in less
intensive RDA's, where emphasis at the initial stage would be on assistance
for marketing and preliminary animal production extension work.
3.        Some additional incremental production should result from small
irrigation schemes (principally rice and vegetables), fruit trees, fish (from
fish ponds), and milk (resulting from livestock extension work and improved
herd management).
4.        Benefits which cannot be quantified would result from soil conserva-
tion measures, improvement of social infrastructure, and support to central
management institutions for national rural development programs and future
project preparation.
Economic Rate of Return
5.        The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Project life is 20 years;
(b) All directly productive Project operating
and investment costs were included in the
rate of return calculation. The following
costs and benefits associated with them
(para 4) were excluded from the analysis:
(i) Human water supplies and clinics;



ANNEX 18
Page 2
(ii) A share of central management services
attributable to on-going rural develop-
ment programs in the eight RDA's not in-
cluded in this Project;
(iii) Part of the cost of training, studies,
and monitoring and evaluation which
relate to other on-going programs or
to preparation of future projects.
(c) Costs of production inputs and farm labor
were included in the analysis (para 6);
(d) Foreign expenditure costs and benefits were
valued at the prevailing exchange rate, which
was assumed to reflect accurately the value of
foreign exchange;
(e) Prices for incremental production were valued
at market prices as of 1975/76, which were
increased by 15% to reflect expected price
increases to February, 1977; it was assumed
that these prices were roughly equivalent to
farm-gate prices. Prices for major interna-
tionally traded commodities were adjusted to
reflect expected shifts in world commodity
prices; adjustments were calculated for maize,
cotton, tobacco, and beef;
(f) Labor costs for development works (civil works)
were valued at E 0.50, which was assumed to be
the approximate average level of uncontrolled
agricultural labor rates, rather than the
official minimum average rate (E 1.00); the
actual cost of agricultural labor was assumed
to reflect more closely than official wage
rates the overall economic cost of labor in
Swaziland;
(g) Taxes and duties were excluded from the
analysis; these were assumed to be the
actual revenue accruing to Swaziland from
Customs Union payments as a direct result
of Project-related imports, adjusted to
reflect both loss of revenue from substi-
tution of maize production for imports,
and that part of Customs Union revenues
not directly associated with taxes and
duties.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
(h) In order to reflect the importance of other
on-going and proposed rural development in-
vestments which would directly affect Project
RDA's and contribute to achievement of expected
benefits, a value was assigned to these non-
Project investments for the analysis; given
uncertainties about the level of these pro-
grams, two alternative figures were included,
and a rate of return was calculated for both
levels.
6.        The value of farm labor was calculated as follows:  it was
assumed that about 600,000 man-days of incremental labor would be required
by year 6, and that requirements would increase steadily up to that point
and to year 10. The value of agricultural labor reportedly ranges between
E 0.20 and E 0.80 a day, depending on season and geographic region. For
purposes of this analysis, it was assumed that incremental labor would be
valued at E 0.80 per day for 25% of the time, reflecting peak season re-
quirements, at E 0.20 25% of the time, to reflect off-season requirements,
and between those levels for the remaining 50% of the time. It appears
from available studies of Swazi Nation Land agriculture that existing labor
is significantly under-utilized, even at peak seasons of planting and har-
vesting.
7.        Based on these assumptions, the rate of return was estimated to be
between 20% and 25%; calculations are shown on Table 1. The sensitivity of
rates of return was tested under several unfavorable assumptions (including
delays in production increases, increases in costs, and decreases in the
value of benefits), and under all these assumptions the rate of return
would be satisfactory.
8.        The rates of return presented should be viewed as largely indi-
cative, offering an order of magnitude of expected benefits from the Proj-
ect. The uncertainties involved in the analysis are substantial for the
following reasons: (a) data on actual production in Project RDA's is
poor and field experience is limited, thus making projections of future
production and benefits uncertain; (b) many development schemes and pro-
grams outside the scope of the proposed Project will directly affect
Project RDA's and contribute to increasing production and incomes. Costs
of all programs are not available and, given their number and complexity,
it could be misleading to attribute benefits in Project RDA's to any single
program; (c) prediction of the development situation "with" and "without"
the Project is incalculable given the range of on-going and proposed pro-
grams that would affect Project RDA's; and (d) low initial capital costs
and high operating costs of Project investments, associated with somewhat
higher Project benefits tend to indicate a high rate of return, which may
overstate benefits from the Project. For these reasons, the mission
recommends that the quantitative rate of return be considered with other



ANNEX 18
Page 4
non-quantifiable benefits of the proposed Project, including principally
institutional development, income distribution effects, and the role of
the Project as part of a much larger, broad-based, and imaginative national
rural development program for Swaziland.
November 22, 1976



SWAZItAhD
RtRA_RL DXEloPMElrr PROEC3
icononin Ret, of Kit-rn Csiooietio
(R'000)
------------t---e----- ------------------------------------------ Y    ----------------------------
1         2          3         4                    6          7        B        9          10}         11          12         15         i14          15         i6          37-90
Incremental tenlefits
ainze                                       I84       i68        542       247        6?4       774        822      846       858        B82         906         942        972        996         1,008      1,020        1,020
Cotton                                       14        28         85       114        158       550        4o6      491       578        661         743         191        649        855           851         858         909
Tobacco                                      20        45        158       228        413       569        75'      922    1,071       1,309       1,505       1.605      1,678      1,741         1,788      1,815        1,832
Other crops, fish, ail1                      70       141        242       552        639       800        964    1,098    1,240       1,590       185,0       1,520      I, 560     16o0          1,605       I 610       i,61o
Cattle                                        0       113        217       28S        257       286        362      371       40o5       45,         391        '464        '95       ,598           540        '721         620
Total Incre.ewtal Pinnoial B-eefits        id        4        1-,024    1 426      2,071     2,759    53291    5 728    415           4,          5, 73        ,r          2        5,67.        5,792     6*02          5.991
Adjoetments
Price Tncre-es 195-'?6                       28        74        154       214        511       414        494      559      623         704         8OC         799        788        8S1           869        904          899
Coeeeodity Price Changeo                     -          0        (lo)       (S)       (26)      (59)       (43)     (S1)      (S4)       (o9)        (69)        (71)        (69)      (74)          (74)        (75)         (75)
_      _      ~__      _           ___           _         _        _       ___                               6 _h _        __      ____           _             _ _
TotaA Eicocaic BenerIts                     216       567      1,16d  - 1655        2,56      3154       3,742    4 256    4,72t       5.337       6_          6 l        5,97t      ,1449         6.58'       6,857       6,815
COSTS
Fiord In.yetrent Conts
Eotsnsioo Infrestructore                    180       589        5o4       227         74
Idve-tock Infrastr-ct-re                     18       157        234       187        181
LUnd Developnent                             68       192        205 .     198        196
Credit ServIn                                17        85         Sl        -          -
Iand  -ceopsent                            218        218       200        218        221
Central Koggeis.nt iorvices                  72        S1         S1       tl         Sl
Total Flood Jnveetant                       573     1,292      1,045       j        723
lnore,sental lp12eattng Costs
Eotoenio- Scr-ic-n                          103       576        447       479        481       377        377      57T      377         377         377         377        377        377           377         577         577
Liceeto-k Fotlosi-on aod Maintesnce          10        40         80        94         97   *   99          99       99        99         99          99          99          99        99            99          99           99
Land D.ev.lopsent Mainten-lce                -          3          a        12         17        19         19       19        19         19          19          19          19        19            19          19          19
credit SerI...                               12        64         94        959 95               91         95       98        98         98          98          98         98         98            95          95          95
iod Maiotena,-s                              14        4i         68        95        123       123        125      123       123        123         125         13         11!3       125           123         123         123
RDA Mao.gsaent                               919       9          98        98         98        50         50      c-O        i0         50          50          50         50         50            50          50          50
Total Costs                                 237       622        79        873        911       76,        763      763       763        765         765         765        763        763           76,5        763
Prodcti-n Costs
P-coducton 1opots                            75       175        500       450        550       6so        750      85o       950      1,050       1,100       11b10      1.200      1.200         1,200       1,2OO       1,200
Fars IboWr                                  100      125        1S5       200        250       300        550      400       45o                    500         50         1co 5O0                  50O        500          SfO
Total Financial Costs                      9        2,214     2290       2404       2434      1,715      1,663    2:015    2,165       2,51        2,56        2414       1,1461f    ?1465         2,465       2           2 2463
Adjoostaeni-s to Coot 
PhysIcal Contingsncy - 10%                  89        209        214       220        218       141       11       161       171        181         i86         191        196       1s6            196         196          196
Tan..                                       (80)     (188)      (193)     (198)      (197)     (127)      (136)    (145)    (154)       (114)       (114)       (114)       (114)     (114)         (114)       (114)        (114)
Lba r                                      (100)     (2-0)      (160)     (150)      (125)      (40)       (40)     (40)      (40)       (40)        (40)        (4         (4o)       (4)          (40)        (40)         (40)
Total Adj-ctnents                          (91)      (19)       ,.U       (128)      (104)      L26)       (25)     (24)      (25)        27          52          37          42      ___
tcoz.o.slc boby                            8914     2,051     2,151      2,276     2,550      1,637 1,858    1 989    2,140            2,14(       2,591       2. .4b     2,505      2,505         2.50       2,505        L,505
Cost Of 0114r Erags   Eentiate A           3'00       300        300       300        200       100        100        '       1.--                               -                            -                   -
Co.t of Oilir Frogre       EstracE  1       700        700        700       700         DO       400        300      100       5oo        100        l1o          100        500        100           lou         500 D       100
Re-t Econoolo tlenefitc.A                  (978)   (1,7 68)   (1,283)     (941)      (174)    1.347      1,804    2,247    2,581       2,997       2,715       3,597      3,466      1,944         4,082      4,082        4,310
tet Economic Benefite B                  (I3281   (2.168)   (1,583     (1,341)      (674)    1,147      1.604    2,147    2,481       2,897       3,615       3,497      3,366      3,844        31982        3,982       4,210
1/  lnersinatu I  ae,  srfa get. prtces
2/  ketietad o*te of Increestitl farn lebar
2/ HJih end  ow este  of rest of Other de-elo1osent progres in Proet RDA's tihe  nonId be reqoired ta sahis-s
sapso-cd ftejet bg.its; ama tig-re  ar g*tsau bhease   f sstaertia     la-led, end a rat  of undaoOsir  ate otf Aecor  - A  25'
retort was celnuted toe seh.  Sie Ans-  18, Test.                                                                                     I; 2,



ANNEX 19
Page 1
SWAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Principal Project-Related Documents
The following documents will be available in the Project File:
1. "Advisory Bulletin No. I - Crop, Horticultural and Pasture Recommendations",
UBLS, 1975
2. "Advisory Bulletin No. 7 - Maize Production, Recommendations for Swaziland"
UBLS, 1975
3. Agricultural Sample Census (Swazi Nation Land), Central Statistical Office,
1971-72.
4. "Annual Report of the Auditor General", Ministry of Finance, 1974.
5. "Annual Report, Central Rural Development Board", CRDB, 1975.
6. "Annual Report of the Chief Engineer, Public Works Department," Ministry
of Works and Communications, 1974
7. "Annual Report, Ministry of Agriculuture," 1974, 1975 (Draft).
8. "Annual Report, Ministry of Commerce & Cooperatives," 1974.
9. Annual Statistical Bulletin, Central Statistical Office, 1975.
10. "Annual Survey of Swazi Nation Land," Central Statistical Office, 1973-74.
11. Atlas of Rural Development, Ministry of Agriculture, 1976.
12. "Bush Control", Ministry of Agriculture, 1975.
13.  "Census of Commercial Timber Plantations and Wood and Wood Products,"
Central Statistical Office, 1973.
14. "Census of Individual Tenure Farms", Central Statistical Office, 1973-74.
15. Cooperative Societies Legislation, Attorney General's Office.
16. "Cotton Research Reports", Cotton Board and Big Bend Research Station.
17. "Crop Profitability Guide Book No. 1 (1975-76)", November, 1975, Ministry
of Agriculture
18. "Directory of Professional and Technical Staff", Ministry of Agriculture,
March, 1976.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
19. "Education Report", Ministry of Education, 1975.
20. "The Estimation of Crop Production Costs and Benefits in Swaziland
Rural Development Projects (Description and Significance of the
Management Oriented Approach)," by A.R.C. Low and R.I. Kemp,
Ministry of Agriculture, 1976.
21. "Fruit and Vegetable Marketing in Swaziland", D.R. Bishop, Ministry of
Agriculture, 1974.
22. Land Development Section, Ministry of Agriculture, "Annual Report", 1975.
23. "Livestock Marketing in Swaziland",by D.R. Bishop, Ministy of Agriculture,
1974.
24. "Maize Marketing in Swaziland", by D.R. Bishop, Marketing Research Officer,
Ministry of Agriculture, Swaziland, 1974.
25. Mananga Agricultural Management Centre, Swaziland, CDC; prospectus.
26. "Plan for the Development of Health Services"l, Ministry of Health, 1975.
27.  "Present Infrastructure in Project RDA's", (Maps), Ministry of Agriculture,
1976.
28. "Project Submission"', Northern RDA, February, 1974; Mahlangatsha RDA,
December, 1973, Central RDA, March, 1974.
29.  "Project Submission", Rural Development Project, Feburary, 1976.
30.  "Report on the National Seminar on Agricultural Marketing", Ministry of
Commerce and Cooperatives, 1975.
31. "Report on Operation of tractor hire pools in rural development areas",
Ministry of Agriculture, 1975, 1976.
32. "Research Reports", UBLS Agricultural Research Division and Ministry of
Agriculture.
33. "Rural Development Area Program" - Annual Reports for 1975.
34. Second National Development Plan, 1973-77, Central Statistical Office, 1973.
35. Soils and Land Capability in Swaziland, by G. Murdoch, 1970.
36. Swaziland Cotton Board, Annual Report and Accounts, 1975.
37. Swaziland Development and Savings Bank, Annual Reports
38. "Swaziland Development and Savings Bank Order", 1973.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
39. Swaziland Government, Capital Fund Estimates for the Financial Year 1976/1977.
40. Swaziland Government, Recurrent Estimates of Public Expenditure for the
Financial Year 1976/77.
41. Swaziland Monetary Authority, Annual Report, 1975-76.
42. Training Reports, Ministry of Establishments and Training, 1975-76,
74-75, 73-74.
43. Working Papers of appraisal mission, including data on dairy production
and demand, further sociological background.
September 26, 1976



SVVAZILAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agri-ultute Organiation Chart
CretOrpwalmaro
CATOS                     X $AIO :1FCCTIR Fv   1  
5"     S _X<LbRIECtSICES  A RNDSt                                                                                                                          OFICR L AS....Xe IA
00o F 005. 10390






SWAZI LAND
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
(   Minister of Agriculture
Permanent Secretary                                     Interministerial
Agriculture             -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  Project Coordination
Under Secretary                                         Committee
and      land        Economic              Director of                               Director of
Administration        Lan         Land     Planning and           Agricultural                              Veterinary Services
Valuation   Planmnin   Economics             Extension
:                  :
*      I           S  
RDA                     Senior Agricultural
e                   Management               Officer                    Livestock          Veteri nary
Unit                    Extension                  Services           Services
(for RDA's)             (for non-RDA's          s
Other Extension
Land                    Crop               Sections Forestry          Livestock
Development             Extension          Home Economics             Extension
Fisheries
*                                       *
.......................
Functional
Relationships                                    District Extension
Officers
R-    N
World Bank-16947






IBRD 12360R
77777];                                                     .ANURY77
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0i ; U L1_J    4                        RN X 2awA0FO
PI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1 0 '<   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: Q               '              Ct
F1HIIH   I it   H A- 0
ULILiLJ i    I XAA~ ,                                           jh |.    5  0 0  0 0   .0 a f  _
D s7   dy, t! d t3:1ll 2Uis t 0!  tr 07S:  ;00  00l i;Xf  0   7  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T






pF1<<t                                                               n                               * .     ;  2    L    a ' : '  "'f'     r  ; ' : : ' ;    X   :   X
zl-                                                                          k   Q,
i \~~P



