CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1375 SW
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Rural Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 6, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1977, between KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African Develop-
ment Bank, as administrator of the Nigerian Trust Fund, a loan
(hereinafter called the AfDB-NTF Loan) in an amount equivalent
to approximately $5,370,000 to assist in financing Part A.1,
Part B.1 and 4, Part C.2, Part D, Part E.1, 3 and 4, and Part K.1
and 2 of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the AfDB-NTF Loan Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB;
(C) the Borrower intends to enter into an agreement with the
European Economic Community (hereinafter called the EEC Financing
Agreement) whereby the EEC agrees to make a grant out of the pro-
ceeds of the European Development Fund (hereinafter called the
EDF Grant) to the Borrower in an amount of 2,500,000 european units
of account equivalent to approximately $2,875,000 to assist in
financing Part A.2 and 4, Part G, Part J and Part L.l(c) of the
Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;


﻿- 2 -
(D) The Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
with the United Kingdom on June 5, 1970, and the United Kingdom
intends to assist under such Memorandum in the financing of the
positions specified in Part L.1 (a) and Part L.1 (e) of the Project
in an aggregate principal amount of approximately 200,000 pounds
sterling, equivalent to approximately $330,000.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CCU" means Central Cooperative Union;
(b) "SDSB" means Swaziland Development and Savings Bank;
(c) "Rural Development Areas Management Unit" means the
unit refprred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(d) "Project Staff" means the staff listed in Section 3.02
(a) (i) of this Agreement;
(e) "CTO" means the Central Transport Organization of the
Ministry of Works, Power and Communications of the Borrower; and


﻿(f) "Project Area" means an area of about 350,000 hectares
of Swazi Nation land located in the Rural Development Areas of
Lubombo-Mpolonjeni, Mahamba-Zombodze, Bekinkosi-Mliba, Mahanga-
H1uti, Masala-Vikisijula, Nkambeni-Madlangampisi, Sandleni-Luqolweni,
Siphofaneni-Maphobeni, Siphocosini-Motshane and Sithobela-Madubeni,
all as substantially delimited in Exhibit 1 to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4% of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Borrower phall repay in advance of maturity any part of its
debt under the AfDB-NTC Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall simulta-
neously repay a proportionate amount of the Loan then outstanding.
All the provisions of the General Conditions relating to repayment
in advance of maturity shall be applicable to any repayment of part
of the Loan by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or
cause the Project to be carried out with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of coordinating the carry-
ing out of the Project and the Borrower's rural development pro-
gram, the Borrower shall operate a Rural Development Areas Manage-
ment Unit within the Ministry of Agriculture, which shall be
staffed with (i) a Chief Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project
Coordinator, a Financial Controller, a Senior Rural Development
Areas Manager (Project Staff) and (ii) such supporting staff as
shall be necessary therefor. The functions and responsibilities of
the Rural Development Areas Management Unit and the qualifications,
experience and terms of reference of the Project Staff shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the Bank on the person
or persons proposed to be appointed to any of the positions listed
in paragraph (a) (i) above.
(c) For the purpose of supervising the coordination of all
entities responsible for carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall, not later than September 30, 1977, establish and thereafter


﻿- 8 -
operate a Project Coordination Committee and appoint to such
committee high level representatives of all such entities. The
Project Coordination Committee shall meet not less than twice
per year.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available to SDSB such
funds as shall be required by SDSB to carry out Part K of the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain its:
(a) Crop Production Unit adequately staffed with qualified
and experienced specialists in the fields of tobacco, cotton,
grains and legumes, and horticulture; and
(b) Animal Production Division adequately staffed with quali-
fied and experienced specialists in the fields of beef production,
range management and livestock extension.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by August 31, in each year,
furnish to the Bank a detailed plan, including, inter alia, invest-
ments to be made and staff requirements for the carrying out of the
Project and the Borrower's rural development program during the
fiscal year of the Borrower* immediately following that date.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) carry out Parts H and I of the Project in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
*    The fiscal year of the Borrower begins on April 1.


﻿- 9 -
(b) at least once a year, review with the Bank the progress
made in carrying out Part G of the Project and in employing na-
tionals of the Borrower for management positions in the Project
Coordination Unit and the Project Area.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part C.1 (a) of the Project,
the Borrower shall, before starting terracing work, (a) furnish
to the Bank a program indicating the areas to be terraced and the
criteria according to which such areas have been selected, and
(b) give the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.08. The Borrower snall, before starting to carry out
Parts B, C and E of the Project, prepare land use plans to this
effect and obtain such approval. of said plans as shall be required.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications there-
of or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's ac-
credited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and do-
cuments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the c-editor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: Ci) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿. 12 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division of the Borrower and of any entity owned or controlled
by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall keep or cause to be
kept such separate accounts and records as shall be adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in re-
spect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part there-
of and SDSB.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have or cause to have the ac-
counts referred to in paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as possible, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 13 -
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, at least once a year, ex-
change views with the Bank on:
(a) the Borrower's policies (i) to recover the maintenance
cost of the infrastructure and services included in the Project
from its beneficiaries, and (ii) to encourage beneficiaries of
rural development projects to pay for the investment and opera-
tion and maintenance cost of such projects;
(b) the Borrower's agricultural credit policies in respect
of small farmers in rural development areas, including, inter
alia, the cost of lending operations to small farmers and ways
to recover such cost;
(c) the Borrower's livestock development policies and the
progress made by the Borrower in carrying out such policies; and
(d) the Borrower's policies on renewal of vehicles and
equipment required for rural development projects, and the
Borrower's level of charges for the use of vehicles and equipment
financed under the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause SDSB to (a) prepare
an annual report on SDSB's lending operations to small farmers
indicating, inter alia, the cost to SDSB of such operations,
SDSB's proposed budget for such operations for the following year


﻿and recoriended interest rates; (b) furnish such report to the
Bank promptly upon its preparation; and (c) give the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause all roads included in the Project Area to be ade-
quately maintained and cause the necessary repair thereof to be
made, all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices;
(b) operate and maintain the health facilities included in
Part E of the Project in conformity with appropriate public health
practices and staff such facilities with adequate personnel;
(c) cause all vehicles and equipment financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be adequately maintained by CTO or,
if required, by any other appropriate governmental or private
entity and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof
to be made, all in accordance with appropriate practices; and
(d) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the above purposes.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall perform, in accordance with
the provisions of the AfDB-NTF Loan Agreement and the EEC Financing
Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the AfDB-NTF Loan or of the EDF
Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) the AfDB-NTF Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its ob-
ligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.02. ioc thu purposes of E-ction 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof: any event specified in subparagraph (i) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Rural Development Areas Management Unit has been
established and the Project Staff has been employed;
(b) the training course referred to in Part G of the Project
has been developed;
(c) the Bank has been notified that all conditions precedent
to the initial disbursement under the AfDB-NTF Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this
Agreement if such be the case; and
(d) the Bank has been notified that all conditions precedent
to the initial disbursement under the EEC Financing Agreement have
been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment if such be the case.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the AfDB-NTF Loan Agreement and
the EEC Financing Agreement have been duly executed and authorized


﻿- 18 -
by all necessary corporate and governmental action, constitute
a valid and binding obligation of the respective parties thereto
in accordance with their terms, and are, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement if such be the case, in full
force and effect.
Section 6.03. The date July 6, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 443
MBABANE
Swaziland
Cable address:
MINFIN
MBABANE
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
By /s/ S. M. Kunene
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                   700,000          70%
vehicles and
materials
(2) Land development             700,000         65%
(3) Project personnel          1,200,000          55%
salaries and
operating ex-
penses of the
Rural Develop-
ment Areas
Maragement Unit
(4) Technical assis-             700,000          100% of foreign
tance, studies,                              expenditures or
and Project moni-                            75% of local ex-
toring and evalu-                            penditures
ation
(5) Unallocated                  700,000
TOTAL      4,000,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower
is also that of another country from the territory of which goods
or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with th.e policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an


﻿- 23 -
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be
made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after November 1, 1976.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfell,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no e.pen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the rural development of the Project
Area, substantially as delimited in the Exhibit 1 to this
Schedule, and includes the following Parts:
A.   Extension Services
Provision of agricultural extension services in the Project
Area for purposes of, inter alia, increasing production of
food and cash crops, promoting de-stocking of livestock and
improving herd management. This Part includes:
1.   Construction and maintenance of buildings and
installations.
2.   Acquisition of ten trucks, ten four-wheel drive
vehicles and six pick-up trucks.
3.   Acquisition of such other vehicles and equipment as
required for purposes of this Part of the Project.
4.   Provision of qualified and experienced staff and
operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment
for the areas of Bekinkosi-Mliba, Mahanga-Hluti,
Masala--Vikisijula, Nkambeni-Madlangampisi, Sandleni-
Luqolveni, Siphofaneni-Maphobeni, Siphocosini-Motshane
and Sithobela-Madubeni.


﻿- 25 -
5.   Provision of qualified and experienced staff and opera-
tion and maintenance of vehicles and equipment for the
areas of Lubombo-Mpolonjeni and Mahamba-Zombodze.
B.   Infrastructure for Livestock Development (Lubombo-Mpolonjeni
and Mahamba-Zombodze areas)
1.   Construction of diptanks and of small dams to water
stock, land clearing and pasture establishment.
2.   Perimeter and paddock fencing.
3.   Acquisition of ten trucks for cattle marketing.
4.   Provision of qualified and experienced staff and
operation and maintenance of the trucks and facilities
included in this Part of the Project.
C.   Land Development and Conservation (Lubombo-Mpolonjeni and
Mahamba-Zombodze areas)
1.   (a) Terracing of about 7,600 hectares and terrace
maintenance.
(b) Removal, realignment and maintenance of grass
strips as appropriate to follow the grass contour.
(c) Resettlement of about 2,000 homesteads, con-
solidation of land holdings, and delineation
of arable and grazing areas.


﻿- 26 -
(d) Reclamation of gullies and construction and
maintenance of about 40 kilometers of waterways
to control drainage.
2.   Development and maintenance of fish ponds and of
irrigation schemes (10-50 hectares each).
D.   Roads
Construction, improvement and maintenance of about 1,000
kilometers of access and feeder roads in the Project Area.
E.   Health Facilities and Rural Water Supply
1.   Construction of two rural clinics in Lubombo-
Mpolonjeni and expansion of a rural clinic in
Mahamba-Zombodze.
2.   Acquisition of three ambulances and acquisition and
utilization of equipment for the clinics included in
paragraph 1 above.
3.   Operation of said clinics and vehicles.
4.   Construction and maintenance of water supply systems
in the Project Area.
F.   Technical Assistance
Provision of 15 man-years of technical assistance for crop
and livestock development.


﻿- 27 -
G.   Training
Development and teaching of a training course at certificate
- diploma level for agricultural extension workers, in-service
training for extension staff and pilot training for farmers
in the Project Area.
H.   Studies
Studies on livestock marketing and for the preparation of
future rural development projects.
I.   Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring of the progress of the Project and evaluation of
the effects of the Project on the development of the Project
Area.
J.   Agricultural Inputs
Supply of farm inputs, through CCU, to small farmers for
seasonal production purposes.
K.   Agricultural Credit Services
1.   Improvement of credit services to small farmers through
the assignment of additional SDSB staff to the Project
Area and the provision of logistic support.
2.   Construction of SDSB's offices and of housing for SDSB's
staff in the Project Area.


﻿- 28 -
3.   Acquisition, operation and maintenance of vehicles
and equipment.
L.   Project Administration
1.   Establishment and operation of a Rural Development
Areas Management Unit, and the employment of the
services of:
(a) a Chief Project Coordinator;
(b) a Deputy Project Coordinator;
(c) a Senior Rural Development Areas Manager;
(d) a Financial Controller; and
(e) such other qualified and experienced staff
as shall be required.
2.   Acquisition, operation and maintenance of such vehicles
and equipment as shall be required for Project adminis-
tration purposes.
*         *         *
The Project will be carried out by the entities listed in
the Exhibit 2 to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1982.


﻿EXH{IBIT I
Rural Development Areas of the Borrower included in the Project Area
I  Lubombo-Mpolonjen4             vi     Nkambeni-Madlangampisi
II Mahamba-Zombodze               vii    Sandleni-Laqolweni
iii    Bekinkosi-Mliba               viii    S ipho faneni-Map hoheni
iv    Mahanga.-Hluti                  IX   SiDhOCOSini-Motshane
v    Masala-Vikisijula                x    Sithöbela-Madubeni


﻿- 30 -
EXHIBIT 2
Part of the Project                               Entity
Parts A, B, C, D, E.14, F, H, I, and L       Ministry of Agriculture
Part E.l, E.2 and E.3                        Ministry of Health
Part G                                  Ministry of Agriculture
and University of Botswana
and Swaziland
Part J                                  CCU
Part K                                  SDSB


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment ,f Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1982
through   December 1, 1996                    129,000
On June 1, 1997                                    130,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 32 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay.-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium*
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.50%


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B, contracts for the purchase of
goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods and services costing $50,000 equivalent
or less may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally or other procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods and services esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for


﻿- 314-
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalifi2ation invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 35 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraphs,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


