Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2908 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan 2 (DPL 2) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P096389 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE 
Implementing Agency 
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 23, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 29, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 12, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Government aims to sustain as well as to attain more broadly shared economic growth through 
a
broad-based program of economic and institutional reforms supported by this second 
Development Policy Loan (DPL). The DPL is the second loan in a programmatic series built 
around the theme of strengthened governance. 
 
The Country Assistance Strategy (2003-2007) identifies seven main objectives for Bank
’s 
involvement: (i) macroeconomic and financial sustainability, (ii) poverty reduction, mitigation of 
social risks and strengthening of the middle class, (iii) comprehensive and harmonized human 
development, (iv) protection of the natural environment, (v) greater integration into the world 
economic and financial systems, (vi) dynamic regional development and reduction of regional 
imbalances, and (vii) improved transparency, accountability and integrity of government.  The 
DPL II is the second and last policy operation in support of the current CAS. A new Country 
Partnership Strategy is under preparation. It is envisaged that the programmatic DPL series will 
continue into the next strategy period (2008-2011). The program stresses linkages between the 
DPL series and parallel investment lending operations to leverage reforms in critical sectors.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) supports enhanced economic growth and poverty 
reduction through:  
(i) 
Improving the investment climate
 by reducing costs of doing business
,
locking in the benefits 
from trade liberalization, improving business transparency, improving the enforcement of contract 
and property rights, and deepening financial intermediation.  
(ii) 
Reforming Critical Areas of Infrastructure for Greater Efficiency 
and to Support the Country’s 
Growth Potential
 by strengthening regulation in the energy, telecommunications and transport sectors, 
attracting private investment, and moving pricing further towards full cost recovery to create incentives for 
greater efficiency.
 
(iii) 
Creating Fiscal Space for Growth Through  Strengthened  Public Finances and Public Sector 
Reform
 by strengthening the budget and tax systems, modernizing the civil service system, and 
improving the management of state assets.  
(iv) 
Improving Service Delivery and Social Inclusion
 by increasing the quality of basic public 
services such as health and education, better targeting of social assistance programs, improving 
Page  2
fiscal sustainability of the pension system, refining the system of local public finance and 
accountability, and helping to ensure that land reform benefits rural landholders.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed DPL is envisaged as a single-tranche loan in the amount of US$300 million in 
support of the economic and social priorities of the Government Program.  The loan will support 
better public governance by implementing policy and institutional reforms across four overlapping 
areas:  (a) improving the investment climate, (b) 
reforming critical areas of infrastructure for greater 
efficiency and to support the c
ountry’s growth potential
 (c) 
creating fiscal space for growth through 
strengthened public finances and public sector reform
,
and (d) 
improving service delivery and social 
inclusion
.
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed DPL will not support specific measures which are likely to have an effect on the 
environment and no environmental impact assessment will be required for this operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
300 
 Total 
300 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Martin Raiser 
Title: Adviser 
Tel: 5256+263 / 380-44-490-6671 
Fax:  
Email: mraiser@worldbank.org 
Location: Kyiv, Ukraine (IBRD)
 
