Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18038
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
STATE AND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT
Loan No. 3324-TU
June 15, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1998)
Currency Unit         Turkish Lira (TL)
1 TL    =    US$0.000004
US$1          250,000
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$1)
Jan 1991      Jan 1992         Jan 1993           Jan 1994          July 1996          July 1997
2750          5,113            8,628             14,000             83,000            175,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditures
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
ICR   -  Implementation Completion Report
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
MOPW   -  Ministry of Public Works and Settlements
KGM   -  General Directorate of Highways
TURKEY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:  Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Director:  Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader:  Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Team Leader:  Mirtha Pokorny, Senior Operations Officer, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
STATE AND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT (Loan 3324-TU)
Contents
Preface ...................i
Evaluation Summary ....................................                                                     ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .....................................1
A.  Project Origin and Objectives .1
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives                                  .3
C.       Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project                 .5
D.  Project Sustainability .12
E. Bank Performance .12
F.  Borrower's Performance .13
G.   Assessment of Performance and Outcome .13
H. Future Operations .14
I.  Key Lessons Learned .14
Part II. Statistical Tables ..........15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                        .1 5
TABLE 2:  RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ....................................................................17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .17
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMIJLATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION.                                                        1 8
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .18
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ................................                                              19
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ......................................... 19
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .........................................                     20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS; ......................................                          21
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ....................... ...................... 21
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPIJTS .......................................................22
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .........................................                          22
Appendices:
A. Civil Works Bid Evaluation ..............................................                       23
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ..............................................               24
Map IBRD 29618
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
STATE AND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT (Loan 3324-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the State and Provincial Roads
Project in Turkey, for which Loan 3324-TU in the amount of US$300.0 million equivalent was
approved on May 14, 1991 and made effective on November 8, 1991. US$50.0 million of the
loan amount was canceled on August 31, 1993.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1997, and is fully disbursed. Cofinancing for the project of US$15 million was
provided by the Government of Switzerland, and US$14,987,021.39 of this amount has been
disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Robert H. Nooter, Consultant for ECSIN, and reviewed by
Mirtha Pokorny, Senior Operations Officer, and Eva Molnar, Transport Sector Leader for
ECSIN. The borrower provided comments that are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based on mraterial in the project file. The borrower contributed
to preparation of the ICR by providing summary data including current estimated Economic
Rates of Return, and submitted comments contained in Appendix B.



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
STATE AND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT (Loan 3324-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The State and Provincial Roads Project, supported with a World Bank loan of US300.0
million, was the third World Bank project directed to the improvement of Turkey's national road
network and the institutional strengthening of the General Directorate of Highways (KGM).
Preparation was started in 1990, based on an agreed perception that improvement in Turkey's
road network was critical to its economic development. Due to macro-economic pressures,
budget financing for road maintenance and upgrading had fallen seriously behind necessary
levels. The project was prepared in eleven months, and was approved by the World Bank Board
of Executive Directors on May 14, 1991.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to (i) keep transport costs low in Turkey by ensuring
adequate renewal and maintenance of the road network; (ii) reduce the backlog of road
strengthening; (iii) continue the downsizing, modernization and improvement of the management
of KGM's equipment fleet; (iv) strengthen and modernize the planning and design capabilities of
KGM; and (v) improve the management and safety of the road system through reforms,
modernization and training.
3.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the borrower's capabilities, although the
first objective was stated more broadly than was consistent with the work to be carried out. The
strategy underlying the project design was supportive of Turkish development efforts in view of
the importance of the road network in meeting Turkey's transport requirements.
4.    Most of the project objectives were met. Under (i) and (ii) above, more than 950 km of
roads were improved, thereby assisting in keeping transport costs low and reducing the backlog
of road strengthening. The economic rate of return of 14.0 percent is considerably less than the
30 percent estimated during project preparation, but is still satisfactory. For (iii), the purchase of
new equipment under the project made possible the retirement of old, outdated machines. For
(iv), the purchase of modern design software and research and survey equipment improved
KGM's design and planning capabilities. Object (v), however, was only partially achieved due
to the delay in the training component and the absence of any effective activities to improve



KGM's management systems, while some progress was made in road safety through the
provision of materials and equipment for improved road markings, traffic signs and guard rails.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Overall, the project successfully achieved its objectives. More than the originally
planned 950 km of road improvements were iraplemented, equipment needed to upgrade KGM's
maintenance equipment and to improve research, design and training facilities were procured and
put into service, and some road safety improvements were made.
6.    31 civil works contracts for road upgrading were let, some of which are still under
implementation, for a total bid value of US$451.2 million compared to an estimated US$312
million included in the Staff Appraisal Report. The original contracts were increased during
implementation to a total estimated cost of US$660.7 million for improving 1844 km of roads,
which is a 46 percent increase over the original contract prices. The increases in the original
contracts were the result of extensions of the length of the roads being improved, the addition of
by-passes, connecting roads and other works, and the upgrading of some roads from two to four
lanes. US$381.9 million had been spent on the 31 contracts as of project closing, of which the
Bank loan has financed US$157,853,351.30, including US$25 million provided for financing
works started in a previous IBRD-funded highway project. Thus, US$278.8 million additional
work must be financed from KGM's own or from other resources in order for all 31 contracts to
be completed, based on current cost estimates.
7.    The estimate of the cost of road upgrading at appraisal was US$360,000 per km,
compared to an estimated cost of US$358,300 per km at project closing, based on KGM's
estimated cost to complete all 31 contracts. The estimated average economic rate of return of
14.0 percent calculated for the 31 contracts for 1815 km of road improvements, based on the
estimated cost to complete the unfinished works, is significantly less that the 30 percent return
estimated at project appraisal but still acceptable. This can be attributed in part to a reduction in
vehicle operating costs related to a reduction in fuel costs. Of the 31 contracts, 13 with a cost of
US$209 million for improving 633 km of roads have actually been completed or are nearly
completed. For these 13 contracts, the average economic rate of return is estimated to be 15.1
percent. These rates of return and average costs per km are not readily comparable, however, as
the final works in many cases differ substantially from the original design.
8.    Bidding for procurement of US$50 million of bitumen to be used for the road upgrading
resulted in only one responsive bidder due to restrictive bidding specifications insisted on by
KGM at the time the bidding documents were prepared. KGM wanted to reject the responsive
bid and rebid on the basis of revised specifications. However, the Bank advised KGM that, in
fairness to the successful bidder, the responsive bid should be accepted or else the US$50 million
allocated in the loan for bitumen procurement would be canceled on the basis of
misprocurement. Given these alternatives, KGM opted for the reduction in the loan amount.
9.    A review of the bid prices received for the civil works contracts revealed that during one
period of bidding, the spread between the highest and lowest bid varied from 52 to 67 percent of
KGM's estimated price, whereas during another period, bids were from 87 to 95 percent of the



- iv -
estimated price. A possible explanation for this difference, which had a substantial impact on the
cost of the works, was that a large amount of civil works was put out to bid during the second
period, so that contractors were not eager to bid low prices.
10.   Project conditionality and legal covenants were generally adhered to satisfactorily.
Progress reports and audits were submitted on time and in good order, and project administration
was excellent. Bank staff also generally performed well, although in retrospect it is not clear
why the Bank staff finally accepted the restrictive shipping requirements for bitumen
procurement proposed by KGM, which ultimately contributed to the misprocurement referred to
in para. 8. The only other major problem related to delays in the availability of Government
counterpart funding during the later years of the project, which delayed the work of some
contractors, and can be explained by overall macroeconomic problems. KGM staff performed
well, although the amount of civil works included in the project appears to be excessive for the
funds available and the additions to the original contracts are high compared to good
procurement practice.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory, in spite of the problems of bitumen
procurement, occasional delays in counterpart funding, and the reduced economic rate of return.
The cost of the civil works component was in line, on a unit basis, with the appraisal estimate.
The estimated average 14.0 percent economic rate of return at project closing is acceptable.
However, the amount of road improvements added to the project could lead to delays in
completing the civil works contracts now that Bank funding is no longer available. Project
sustainability seems assured since KGM is a competent and dedicated organization with long
experience in carrying out road improvement activities.
12.   Some lessons that can be leamed from this project are:
(a)   Highway contracting authorities should be aware of road construction market
conditions, and to the extent possible let a level volume of work in each year to
avoid either flooding the market, resulting in a high price level for contracted
work, or a shortage of work that will make it hard even for good contractors to
survive;
(b)   It is generally preferable to let the civil works contractors be responsible for all of
the inputs required, in order to avoid divided responsibility for quality and
delivery;
(c)   Care should be taken to avoid restrictive bidding specifications that will result in
lack of effective competition; and
(d)   Additions to civil works contracts should be limited to a reasonable percentage of
the original cost; major additions should be subject to economic analysis before
deciding to proceed, and should be put out for bid as separate contracts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
STATE AND PROVINCIAL ROAD PROJECT (Loan 3324-TU)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    Transport is vital for the economic development and integration of Turkey. Its freight
transport demand includes not only domestic fireight and import/export traffic, but also transit
traffic between Europe and the Middle East. The backbone of Turkey's transport system is its
360,000 km of roads, 60,000 of which are state and provincial roads constructed and maintained
by the central government, and 300,000 of rural roads. Road transport, operated entirely by the
private sector, handles over 80 percent of the fieight and 95 percent of the passenger demand.
The Ministry of Public Works and Settlements (MOPW), through its Directorate of Roads
(KGM), is responsible for the development and maintenance of the state and provincial roads.
2.    Due to macro-economic pressures, budget allocations for state and provincial roads
decreased continuously in real terms between 1984 and 1988, and were only two-thirds of the
level of the early 1980s by the end of that period. As a result, strengthening and upgrading
programs fell seriously behind, and the need for increased maintenance became acute. Also,
many road sections designed in the 1950s and 1 960s were not designed for today's axle loads.
The Government recognized the importance of increasing allotments for roads, both by
increasing budget allocations and by requesting World Bank assistance for its road program.
3.    KGM was already a mature organization at project inception. It had carried out two
previous World Bank-financed projects satisfactorily. The Project Completion Report for the
Second Highway Project notes: "Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as
likely, and its institutional impact as substantial". By the time of implementation of the State and
Provincial Roads Project, KGM had developed methods for evaluating the economic feasibility
of road investment projects on the basis of the 'World Bank HDM model, and was successfully
performing its own design and supervision for road construction and maintenance work.
4.   Road safety was still a serious problem in Turkey in 1991, in spite of road safety
components in both of the previous Highway Projects. In 1989, there were 104,000 accidents
injuring 80,000 people and causing 6,300 deaths. The incidence of fatalities on Turkish
highways was about 6 to 10 times higher than in other European countries. The fatality rate on
state and provincial roads, however, was falling, and in 1989 was less than half of its level in the
early 1970s.
5.    With this background in mind, the project objectives were to (i) keep transport costs low
by ensuring adequate renewal and maintenance of the road network; (ii) reduce the backlog of



-2 -
road strengthening; (iii) continue the downsizing, modernization and improvement of the
management of KGM's equipment fleet; (iv) strengthen and modernize the planning and design
capabilities of KGM; and (v) improve the management and safety of the road system through
reforms, modernization and training.
6.    The project description included the following components:
(a)   strengthening about 650 km of high priority sections of existing state roads;
(b)   improvement of about 300 km of selected provincial roads;
(c)   procurement of equipment and materials for road maintenance, research, planning,
survey and design, reorganization, computerization and training;
(d)   improvement of road safety;
(e)   training for KGM's staff; and
(f)   consulting services.
7.    Project conditionality included: (i) criteria for selecting the road sections to be improved
under the project, based on minimum traffic load for state roads and minimum economic rates of
return; (ii) appropriate feasibility studies for road sections to be improved under Bank financing
would be submitted to the Bank for review before construction bids are invited; (iii) KGM would
extend traffic counting to provincial roads in order to improve the quality of its planning
decisions and enhance the technical and cost effectiveness of its design work; (iv) agreement on
procurement procedures and bidding documents; and (v) provision of counterpart funding as
required to carry out the project. This was considered to be a sector project, since the project
included financing for a multi-year program of works with only the first year program of road
strengthening specifically identified at the time of appraisal. However, none of the conditionality
usually applied to sector loans, such as annual reviews of the sector investment program, were
specified.
8.    The project objectives were realistic in terms of the borrower's capabilities. However,
the first objective, to keep transport costs low by ensuring adequate renewal and maintenance of
the road network, was not fully reflected in the more limited itemized project components and
conditionality, which only addressed work to be carried out on a limited portion of the state and
provincial road network.
9.    The strategy underlying the project design was supportive of Turkish development
efforts, although the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not directly relate the strategy to the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of that time. The prospects for satisfactory project
implementation were considered good considering KGM's past implementation experience with
World Bank projects. The only identified risk, which subsequently did materialize, was the
possible delay in availability of counterpart funds, although past performance in this respect was
observed to be quite good.



- 3 -
B. Achievemeint of Project Objectives
10.   Overall, the project successfully carried out the project components identified in the SAR,
and generally met the project objectives. The specific objectives are discussed below.
To Keep Transport Costs Low
11.   The first objective, to keep transporft costs low by ensuring adequate renewal and
maintenance of the road network, was too broadly stated to be measured during project
implementation or at completion. For example, there was no reporting on the overall level of
maintenance of the national road network, condition of the overall road network that would
indicate possible transport costs, and no conditionality relating to the relationship between
spending on maintenance and for new investments. The planned improvements of 950 km of
state and provincial roads outlined in the project description were in fact carried out and
exceeded, and no doubt helped to keep transport costs lower than they would have been without
these improvements However, this does not in itself indicate whether the objective as stated was
met. This is more a shortcoming of the wording of this objective, however, than a shortcoming
of the project design or implementation.
To Reduce the Backlog of Road Strengthening
12.   The components relating to this objective called for the strengthening of about 650 km of
high priority state roads and 300 km of provincial roads, with an estimated average Economic
Rate of Return of 30 percent. The cost of these improvements was estimated at US$390,000 per
km for strengthening of state roads and US$290,000 per km for improving provincial roads, for
an overall average of US$360,000 per km.
13.   31 civil works multi-year contracts were let for improvements of state and provincial
roads at an original bid value of US$451.2 million compared to US$312 million of such works
included in the Staff Appraisal Report. During execution of the contracts, additions were added
to these contracts, including extending the length of the roads, constructing city by-passes, the
addition of connecting roads, and upgrading some road sections from two to four lanes. At
project closing, nine contracts had been totally completed and four more were nearly complete.
At the end of 1997, KGM calculated the estimated cost to complete all 31 contracts to be
US$660.7 million, or 46 percent more than the original bid value, which included improvements
for 1875 km of roads. A total of US$381.9 million had been expended on the work carried out as
of the end of CY1997, leaving an estimated US$278.8 million required to complete the 31
contracts.
14.   The overall average cost per km, based on KGM's estimated cost to complete the 1875
km, is US$352,400 per km, very close to the original estimate in spite of the substantial cost
increases over the original bid prices. The project appears to have met its objective of reducing
the backlog of road maintenance, but the final accounting must await the full completion of all
31 contracts to know exactly what was accomplished and at what actual cost.



- 4 -
15.   The estimated ERR at time of project approval was an average of 30 percent for the civil
works component of the project. KGM has made an estimate of the ERRs for the 31 civil works
contracts, as shown in Table 9, covering 1875 km of road improvements, based on the estimated
cost to complete the contracts and updated traffic figures. The weighted average of the ERRs for
the 31 contracts is 14.0 percent, considerably less than the 30 percent estimate made at the time
of appraisal but still acceptable. This is attributable in part to a reduction in vehicle operating
costs related primarily to a reduction in fuel costs, and to the substantial changes made to the
contracts during execution.
16.   A review of the results for the 13 completed or nearly completed contracts shows an
economic rate of return of 15.1 percent, also lower than the appraisal estimate but still
acceptable. Three of these contracts have ERRs ranging from 0 to 7.2 percent, in part due to
increases in the original contract prices and in part the result of lower than anticipated traffic
increases. These rates of return and average costs per km are not readily comparable, however,
as the final works in many cases differ substantially from the original design.
Continue the Downsizing, Modernization and Improvement of the Management of KGM's
Equipment Fleet
17.   New equipment for routine and emergency maintenance purchased with loan funds has
improved the efficiency of KGM's operations, and has enabled KGM to dispose of large
quantities of unserviceable equipment or machines that were being kept well beyond their useful
life, thus reducing maintenance costs. The new equipment has also improved the effectiveness of
KGM's road maintenance services, including winter maintenance. The training program carried
out by the equipment suppliers in connection with the purchase of the new equipment supported
these objectives and assured that the staff was adequately trained for its use. Therefore, this
objective was achieved.
Strengthen and Modernize the Planning and Design Capabilities of KGM
18.   The loan financed computer software, including state of the art CAD applications, which
has greatly improved local road design capabilities. The purchase of 50 "total stations"
(theodolites) have improved the volume, accuracy and speed with which topographic data can be
fed electronically into the CAD program. Also, research and survey equipment financed from
the loan has expanded KGM's capacity to carry out technical research and road surveys
(including the surveys of the provincial road network). Therefore, this objective was also
achieved.
To Improve the Management and Safety of the Road System Through Reforms,
Modernization and Training
19.   The project's principal contribution to road safety was through the provision of materials
needed to improve accident black spots, install guard rails, install portable weighing devices and
improve traffic signs and road markings. The attention to road safety included in the project did,
however, stimulate KGM to establish a working group that has prepared a detailed traffic safety
action plan as part of the preparation of a follow-on project (Road Improvement and Traffic



- 5 -
Safety, financed by IBRD Loans 4048/49-TU). The plan is very comprehensive, addressing the
issues of physical improvements, enforcement, and education. A bill to create an interministerial
traffic safety council to coordinate the implementation of the plan has recently been approved by
the Parliament.
20.   Training of KGM staff planned for the State and Provincial Roads Project was delayed
due to Government restrictions on travel abroad, and will now be carried out under the new
project. While institutional strengthening under the State and Provincial Roads Project was
limited to the provision of physical inputs, the project did lead to the more comprehensive
institutional strengthening included in the new project. Nevertheless, the objective of improving
management can not be said to have been achieved under this project.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
21.   The overall implementation record was good, with excellent project management, timely
reporting and audit submissions, a good dislbursement record, and an acceptable quality of works.
The project's three problem areas include the availability of counterpart funding from about the
mid-point of the project onward, a major procurement problem relating to the purchase of a large
quantity of bitumen, which resulted in the cancellation of US50 million of the loan amount, and
the excessively large additions made in the civil works contracts during contract implementation.
Civil Works
22.   The original loan allocation included an amount of US$150 million for Civil Works.
This amount was intended to finance 50 percent of the contracts for works to improve 650 km of
state roads and 300 km of provincial roads. Contractors were selected on the basis of
competitive bidding using the ICB procedures outlined in the World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. Contractors were to provide all of the inputs necessary to carry out the work
except the bitumen, US$50 million of which was to be financed from the loan and provided by
KGM to the contractors. Selection of the sections of roads to be put out to bid during the first
year was agreed at appraisal, and the criteria for selection of additional road sections were
agreed, including an adequate Economic Rate of Return. Contracts were expected to be an
average of about US$10 million each, and to take three to four years to complete. Selection of
the successful bidder was to be made by a Bidding Commission established for this purpose, and
in each case the qualified low bidder was selected. Initially, there were some delays while KGM
and the Bank sought, and eventually reached, agreement on procurement documents and an
inflation adjustment clause. While ICB bidding procedures were used, very few foreign
contractors bid on the works, and all contracts except one were awarded to Turkish contractors.
23.   Design of road improvements was carried out by KGM or by local design firms financed
under the loan. Design included improving the pavements and base courses, minor
improvements in alignments, widening of the roadways in some cases, improvements in
drainage, widening or replacement of bridges and structures and intersection redesign where
appropriate. Supervision of the contractors' performance was carried out by KGM with its own
staff.



- 6 -
24.    US$25 million of the Civil Works allocation was used to finance roads under retroactive
financing provisions of the loan for works let under a previous Bank project. Also, Swiss
Government financing of US$15 million was made available in support of the civil works
component, and financed 50 percent of the contracts for improvement of provincial road sections
in lower income regions. The Swiss Government financing was administered and disbursed by
the Bank. By 1995, budgetary pressures in Turkey made it difficult for KGM to meet its
commitments to finance its 50 percent share of the civil works contracts, and the Government
requested that the loan percentage be increased to 70 percent. Instead, the Bank agreed, in a
letter amendment dated January 22, 1996, and accepted on February 16, 1996, to increase the
loan percentage to 60 percent.
25.  In view of Turkey's high inflation rate, the civil works multi-year contracts contained an
inflation adjustment clause that provided for an upward adjustment in the contract unit prices at
the beginning of each year. This clause was agreed between the Government and the Bank, and
was considered fair to both the contractors and KGM. There were some reports, however, that
some contractors were reluctant to carry out work in the last half of the year when costs had
risen, preferring to wait for the following year's adjustment before proceeding. KGM now
makes inflation adjustments regularly throughout the year, which should resolve this problem.
26.   At project closing, 13 of the 31 civil works contracts had been completed at a cost of
US$209 million for improving 633 km of roads, although the total value of work carried out on
all 31 contracts as of December 31, 1997 was US$381.9 million. US$157,853,351.30 of the
Bank's loan (less the US$25 million used for retroactive financing of the previous highway
project) was disbursed from the Civil Works category for financing part of this amount.
27.   The overall cost to bring all 31 contracts to completion was estimated by KGM in
February 1998 to be US$660.7 million, a 46 percent increase over the US$451.2 million original
bid value. The Government requested and the Bank agreed that up to US$25 million of the
financing available from Loans 4048/49-TU could be used for financing incomplete portions of
Loan 3324-TU, including goods, works and training. Even if all of the US$25 million were used
for this purpose, there would still be an estimated US$253.8 million required to complete the
unfinished work. This may be possible since KGM's total budget for 1997 was over US$1
billion equivalent, but the difficulties that KGM had in providing the counterpart for its share of
project financing during the past several years raises some doubt as to the feasibility of this
solution. KGM has assured the Bank that it now has the resources needed to finance the
completion of these contracts.
28.   An analysis of the bid prices for the 18 contract bids that were available in the files
revealed some anomalies that KGM might want to explore further, since it could lead to cost
savings in future contract work of this kind. As shown in Appendix A, all of the six bids
received from July 1992 to June 21, 1993, showed a wide diversity of prices, with a spread
between the highest and lowest price being from 43 to 81 percent. During this period, the lowest
price was from 52 to 67 percent of the KGM estimated price for the work as designed. From
June 25, 1993 to February 1994, the spread between the highest and lowest of the ten bids
received were between 3.8 and 10.6 percent, and the lowest bid was from 87 to 95 percent of the



-7 -
KGM estimated cost. The final two bids, in May 1994, once again had a significant spread in bid
prices and a significant discount from the KGM estimate. Thus the prices received in the earlier
period were an average of 62 percent of KGM's estimated cost, compared to 91 percent for the
June 1993 to February 1994 period.
29.   One possible explanation for this bidding behavior is that a large amount of civil works
was put out for bid during the June 1993-February 1994 period, so that contractors were not
eager to bid low prices. If this is the case, KC;M may want to give more attention to spreading its
work more evenly from one year to another.
Bitumen
30.   The original project design provided for the loan to finance 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of US$50 million of bitumen, which was listed as a separate line item in the
Disbursement Schedule. The bitumen was to be purchased by KGM and made available to the
contractors carrying out the civil works contracts. Bidding documents were approved during
project preparation on the basis of using imported bitumen since KGM did not at that time
consider local bitumen to be of satisfactory quality.
31.   On July 26, 1991, approximately one month after the loan signing, the World Bank Task
Manager sent a Fax to KGM inquiring whether locally produced bitumen might be acceptable.
He informed KGM that he had been led to believe that the local Government-owned refinery
Tupras might be able to produce an acceptable quality of bitumen with a significant saving in
transport costs. KGM replied with a request to proceed with the procurement of imported
bitumen. On August 21, 1991, the Task Manager again raised the question of whether it was
necessary to use imported bitumen since local bitumen should result in lower costs, and also
whether it was necessary to purchase the entire four year supply in a single contract. He also
questioned the specification that required the supplier to have a vessel on "time charter" for four
years continuously.
32.  In a reply received September 17, 1991, KGM stated that "Bitumen supplied by Tupras
complies with the ASTM test methods used in our research laboratories and Tupras can also
participate in this tender in the coverage of World Bank regulations". It further stated that a
better price could be obtained in a single large tender, separate tenders might disrupt the delivery
schedule, and the supplier could use the same ships for other jobs as long as the KGM monthly
program was met. The actual specifications wvere prepared on the basis of "imported bitumen" in
spite of the stated intention in the letter of September 17, 1991 to allow local supplier Tupras to
compete, and required delivery in nine ports over a four year period. The specifications also
required that the bidder own, or have on charter, special asphalt ships of sufficient quantity and
capacity to transport the bitumen to the nine specified ports, and that it had successfully
transported at least 100,000 metric tons of asphalt in programmed deliveries to various ports in
Turkey under one contract. KGM insisted that these shipping requirements were necessary to
assure timely delivery.
33.   KGM proceeded to seek bids on the basis of the specifications outlined above. Only
three bids were received, one of which was disqualified because it did not provide a proper letter



- 8 -
of guarantee. A second bid, from an American supplier, met all of the specifications at a price of
US$61 million. A third bid from Tupras was received at a price of US$36 million on the basis of
using bitumen from its local refinery.
34.   On the basis of the bids received, KGM requested a "no objection" for an award to
Tupras in a Fax dated July 31, 1992, as KGM had concluded that Tupras could in fact meet the
material specifications required for the civil works contracts. However, as the specifications
clearly stated that imported bitumen was required, and as Tupras did not meet the stringent
shipping requirements, the Bank could not agree to the KGM recommendation.
35.   After a lengthy review, the Bank wrote to the Government on January 27, 1993, stating
that "a failure to sign a contract with the responsive bidder would constitute misprocurement, and
would lead to a cancellation of the funds allocated under this category of the Loan Agreement".
The Bank's letter explained its decision as follows:
"The present bids were invited under a set of documents prepared by KGM, under the
Bank's International Competitive Bidding guidelines. This exercise must be properly concluded.
"Paragraph 2.60 of the Procurement Guidelines specifies the conditions under which all
bids can be rejected and requires consultation with the Bank before doing so. The paragraph
permits cancellation and rebidding if the lowest bid exceeds the cost estimate by a substantial
margin. However, the estimates shown in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, page 18) show a
budget for bitumen of $62.6 million including contingencies of $6.6 million. Therefore,
rejection of the lowest evaluated responsive bidder and cancellation of bids on these grounds,
would not be permissible.
"Exceptionally, where there has been evidence of a clear misunderstanding between the
Bank and the Borrower, declarations of misprocurement without cancellation of funds have
occasionally occurred. However, this exception does not apply because we have been unable to
identify any evidence of misunderstanding regarding the intent of KGM at the time of the bid.
"In consultation with our Legal Department and procurement advisers, we have carefully
examined this issue and have concluded that KGM intended this bid to apply to foreign bidders
and to imported bitumen only, from the time that the new technical specification was first
discussed in 1986. This conclusion is based on the following facts:
"KGM did not accept the Bank's suggestions to use local bitumen in the first instance,
backed up by imports if and when required, but provided firm technical arguments to support its
wish to proceed with a bid for imported bitumen;
"In addition to the requirements of the 1986 Technical Specifications for bitumen, KGM
added to the 1992 document, very specific and demanding language requiring extensive previous
experience of bitumen shipment, and either evidence of ownership or long term charter for
specialized bitumen delivery tankers (Clauses 6.2 and 6.4). KGM argued at the time that these
were essential performance criteria to assure satisfactory supplies and these restrictive criteria
were, therefore, accepted by the Bank.



-9 -
"The Loan Agreement which specifies "imported bitumen" and specifies reimbursement
of 100% of foreign exchange cost was reviewed in detail by the KGM delegation at loan
negotiations and again when changes were made to the Loan Agreement in 1992. We have
concluded that this wording reflects fully the b,orrowers intention at the time."
36.   In a reply dated August 27, 1993, the Government reiterated its preference for either
amending the Loan Agreement so as to enable local bidders to participate in the bidding, or to
transfer the amount of the bitumen to the civil works category. However, in view of the Bank's
rejection of these alternatives, the Government reluctantly chose the cancellation of the US$50
million rather than place the order with the one responsive bidder. It also agreed to provide the
bitumen for the project from its own resources. The Turkish Treasury held an inquiry into the
matter, and the head of KGM's Asphalt Division was removed from his post. Local bitumen was
procured by KGM, and presumably met the required specifications. The loss of funding,
however, added to the difficulties of financing the civil works contracts when budgets came
under pressure in 1995 and 1996.
37.   In a letter dated November 6, 1996, the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement wrote to
the President of the World Bank in response to the President's message to all of the World
Bank's clients at the time he took office. The Ministry's letter reviewed the background of the
bitumen misprocurement, and requested that the Bank reconsider its "unjust decision" and
restore the US$50 million to the Loan. On December 6, 1996, the Director for the Southeastern
Europe Department replied that it was not possible to reverse the cancellation, but "when the
Project Completion Report comes to be written for this project in 12-18 months, that the Bank's
actions in this incident (would) be satisfactorily explained".
Review of the Bitumen Misprocurement Issue
38.   The paragraphs above set out the facts in this case as they are known to the Bank. The
relevant paragraph of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines dated May 1985, which were in effect
at the time of the bitumen procurement, are reproduced below to give a full sense of their
meaning.:
"2.60 Bidding documents usually provide that Borrowers may reject all bids. However,
the Borrower should consult with the Bank beifore holding any negotiations, or rejecting all bids
or soliciting new bids. All bids shall not be rejected and new bids invited on the same
specifications solely for the purpose of obtaining lower prices, except in cases where the lowest
evaluated bid exceeds the cost estimates by a substantial amount. In such cases, the Borrower
may, as an alternative to rebidding, negotiate with the lowest evaluated bidder (or failing a
satisfactory response, with the next lowest bidder) to try to obtain a satisfactory contract.
Rejection of all bids is also justified when bids are not substantially responsive or there is lack of
effective competition. If all bids are rejected the Borrower should review the causes justifying
the rejection and consider making either revisions in the specifications or modifications in the
project or both before inviting new bids."
39.   As is obvious from the above, the Guidlelines require interpretation and judgment. The
Bank's reasoning in this case is outlined in the letter of January 23, 1993, quoted above. The



- 10-
Bank was correct to find that the Tupras bid was unresponsive to the bidding specifications since
Tupras was not offering imported bitumen and did not meet the shipping requirements. In
retrospect, however, it is unclear why the Bank approved the original bidding documents with
shipping requirements so restrictive that few suppliers (indeed, perhaps only one supplier) could
meet them, and resulted in bidding that produced only one responsive bidder. The Bank had an
opportunity to remedy this by agreeing to the KGM request to reject all bids and to retender on
the basis of revised specifications, as contemplated in para. 2.60 above, since bidding resulting in
only one responsive bidder would seem to justify a finding of "lack of effective competition".
However, in accordance with its consistent practice, the Bank decided that it was not fair to the
one responsive bidder to change the rules of the game after bidding had taken place, especially in
view of KGM's insistence on restricting the bidding to imported bitumen when the specifications
were prepared, and when the Bank was not convinced that the local bitumen was of adequate
quality in view of KGM's earlier rejection of this option.
40.   At this stage, the only course is to leam from the experience for the next time. Some
possible lessons include:
- It is generally preferable to let contractors provide all of the materials required to carry
out their work, in order to avoid divided responsibility for both quality and delivery.
- Specifications should indicate the quality standards required rather than the source (i.e.
"imported").
- Specification should not be more restrictive than necessary since the resulting lack of
competition can be costly.
41.   In its contribution to the ICR (see Appendix B), KGM requested that the Bank revise its
decision regarding the cancellation of US$50 million of the loan amount. In a letter dated June
1, 1998, Mr. Ricardo Halperin, Director of ECSIN, responded to this request as follows:
"While the draft ICR suggests that the Bank may have had some options in terms of the
decisions that could have been taken, the ICR also cites KGM's stand on the quality of the local
bitumen as a factor in the decision that was eventually taken by the Bank with respect to
rebidding. The Bank's decision was heavily influenced by the information provided to the Bank
by KGM during loan negotiations that only imported bitumen could meet the specifications and
that the restrictive shipping specifications were necessary to ensure delivery of a satisfactory
product. This led to agreement on these specifications during the loan negotiations and for the
Loan Agreement to provide only for the financing of imported bitumen.
"Subsequently, the Task Manager on two occasions prior to bidding sent Faxes to KGM
raising the possibility that local bitumen might be acceptable and should result in lower costs
(see Para. 31), but in each case KGM preferred to retain the option of relying on imported
bitumen. Thus, when KGM reversed its position with respect to local bitumen after the bidding
and approached the Bank for a revision of the specifications, the Bank had no grounds to believe
that local bitumen could meet the requirements. I trust that you will agree that under these
circumstances, allowing for rebidding would have been inappropriate."



Equipment
42.   The Loan Agreement allocated US$85 million for the procurement of equipment
comprising 300 multi-purpose maintenance trucks, 100 dump trucks, 50 front end loaders, 30
dozers, 16 asphalt distributors, and one slurry seal plant. This allocation also included equipment
for technical research, monitoring and testing the condition of pavements, photogrammetric
plotters and surveying equipment, and computers and software for pavement and bridge design
and management. Also, equipment for KGM's Training Center, including laboratory equipment
and visual aids, was included. During implementation, the Equipment category was increased to
US$95 million by a transfer from the Unallocated category, but the final amount actually utilized
was US$88,263,251.49.
43.   Generally, the equipment procurement proceeded as planned and without difficulties. A
total amount of US$75,015,063.47 was used to purchase equipment for the Department of
Equipment and Supply, and the balance was used for the other purposes outlined above.
Consultants Services and Training
44.   Local consultants were engaged to carry out the design and prepare the bidding
documents for the civil works component of the project. US$3,883,397.21 was used for this
purpose, compared to the initial allocation of US$2.0 million. Performance of the design
consultants was satisfactory.
45.   An extensive training program was prepared, to be carried out at a U.S. university, to
train trainers for the Training Center. However, due to fiscal constraints, the Government
prohibited all overseas training and the program had to be canceled. As a result, the project's
only contribution to training, other than the training provided by the equipment suppliers, was
the equipment purchased for the Training Center.
Project Conditionality
46.   Project conditionality was met satisfactorily. In some cases, there were extended debates
between the Bank and KGM regarding items such as the inflation adjustment clause and whether
acceptance of the lowest qualified bid should be the basis for the award of civil works contracts.
However, these issues were ultimately worked out consistent with World Bank procedures and
without project delays. Progress reports and audit reports were submitted on time and in good
order. The only serious problem related to the lack of Government counterpart funding during
the later years of the project, which delayed the work of some contractors. This may be
explained by the macroeconomic problems that Turkey was facing at that time, which required
tight control over Government expenditures.



- 12-
Co-Financing
47.   The original project did not contemplate co-financing. However, when Swiss
Government financing of US$15.0 million became available, the Government and the Bank
agreed to accommodate it within the project, as described in para. 21. This financing was
administered by the Bank, and was used to finance 50 percent of several road sections under the
same conditions and procurement procedures applying to the Bank-financed sections. This work
was executed with no difficulties, and allowed an expansion of the project accordingly. As of
this date, US$14,987,021.39 of the US$15.0 million has been disbursed.
D. Project Sustainability
48.   KGM is a competent and dedicated organization that carries out its responsibilities in a
serious and conscientious manner. Thus the institutional changes supported by physical inputs
financed through the project, such as improved planning, design, economic evaluation and
establishment of the Training Center can be expected to be sustained in future years, just as the
benefits of the earlier two highway projects have been sustained during the present project
period.
49.   The physical improvements made in upgrading state and provincial roads will have a long
lasting effect since maintaining the upgraded roads will be less expensive than the cost of the
initial upgrading. Again, the sustainability of these changes will be enhanced because KGM is
an organization that can be expected to provide the routine and periodic maintenance that are
needed to get maximum economic benefit from these improvements.
E. Bank Performance
50.  In general, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. Preparation was accomplished in a
minimum amount of time, assisted by the fact that this was a follow-on project. During
implementation, prompt attention was given to the many issues that needed to be resolved
regarding procurement. In retrospect, the Bank should not have agreed to the restrictive shipping
requirements for the bitumen procurement.
51.   The Bank's commitment of staff and funding for supervision, however, appears to be less
than adequate, given the size and complexity of the project. The approximately eleven and one
half staff weeks per year for supervision is considerably under the Bank's norm. While the
project was supervised by a highly competent highway engineer, he had very little assistance
during the supervision of this sizable project. For example, of the eleven supervision missions
that were carried out during the six year implementation period, all but two were carried out by a
single individual, usually for less than ten days.
52.   As a sector loan, the project conditionality should have given more attention to sector
issues such as the sector investment program, the overall level of Government spending for the
sector, and the relationship between maintenance and new investment, among others. In reality,
it functioned as an investment project, but with some of the investments agreed after project
startup on the basis of agreed criteria. Also, the Bank's decision in regard to the bitumen



- 13 -
procurement issue appears to be more pumitive than necessary to be consistent with World Bank
procurement procedures, and left feelings of resentment on the part of the client.
F. Borrower's Performance
53.   KGM's performance was excellent in regard to project administration. Progress reports
were submitted on time, as were good and timely audit reports. Technical performance was also
good, with relatively little delay in contractor performance, and with few problems of quality of
the work. There was some resistance to the use of Bank procurement procedures in some cases,
mainly because of resistance to change from long standing Turkish practices. However, most of
these differences were ultimately worked out satisfactorily.
54.   The expansion of the project scope to include 1875 km of road improvements compared
to the original 950 km included in the appraisal document led to a considerably higher total
project cost than contemplated at appraisal. This appears to be the result of KGM wanting to
accomplish as much as possible under the project. However, it has the potential for leaving
contracts partially unfinished and contractors with possible costly claims against KGM. Also,
the additions to the original contracts resulting in increased contract costs of 46 percent appear
excessive and no doubt contributed to the lower than expected economic rates of return for the
completed civil works contracts. Some of the additions for which unit prices would not apply,
such as by-passes, should have been subjiected to economic analysis before proceeding with the
works, and might have been handled at lower cost under new bidding rather than as additions to
the existing contracts. Also, the inflation clause in the civil works contracts should be examined
to determine if the substantial increase in contract costs was caused in part by a price adjustment
formula that more than compensated for actual cost increases.
55.   As pointed out in the Staff Appraisal Report for the Road Improvement and Traffic
Safety Project, the contribution of the Bank to the sector was seen by the Government largely in
financial terms, rather than as a source of relevant experience for institutional strengthening and
policy reform. A more open relationship) not only with the Bank but with highway experts
available through international consultants and other lending organizations would likely benefit
KGM through access to new ideas.
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome
56.   The overall project outcome is ralted as satisfactory, in spite of the problems described
above. The project objectives were generally achieved, as stated in Section B. The specified
amount of road improvements were carried out at approximately the estimated cost per km. The
economic rate of return was considerably lower than the 30 percent estimated at appraisal, but is
still acceptable (see para. 15). Some institutional improvements were made, and the prospect for
sustainability of project benefits is good. On the negative side, an excessive amount of civil
works was included in the original bidding documents, as well as in the substantial additions
made to the contracts during execution, resulting in a substantial total cost overrun that must be
financed by KGM.



- 14-
H. Future Operations
57.   A follow-on project, financed by Loan Nos. 4048/49-TU, has already been put in place
and is under implementation. This project, supported by US$250 million of Bank financing, will
continue the road improvements for 900 kin of roads, support the borrower in implementing its
Road Traffic Safety Action Plan, and continue the institutional strengthening of KGM. Thus it is
a logical continuation of the State and Provincial Roads Project. The lessons learned from the
State and Provincial Roads Project as given below have been addressed and corrective measures
included in the follow-on project.
I. Key Lessons Learned
58.   There are a number of lessons to be learned from this project, as follows:
(a)   Highway contracting authorities should be aware of road construction market
conditions, and to the extent possible let a level volume of work in each year to
avoid either flooding the market, resulting in a high price level for contracted
work, or a shortage of work that will make it hard even for good contractors to
survive;
(b)   It is generally preferable to let the civil works contractors be responsible for all of
the inputs required, in order to avoid divided responsibility for quality and
delivery;
(c)   Care should be taken to avoid overly restrictive specifications that will result in
lack of effective competition; and
(d)   Additions to civil works contracts should be limited to a reasonable percentage of
the original cost; major additions should be subject to economic analysis before
deciding to proceed, and should be put out to bid as separate contracts.



- 15 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits,
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14: Civil Works Bid Evaluation
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial  Partial     Negigble    Notapplicable
Macro Policies               O            O             C]             C
Sector Policies              El           O             0              0x
Financial Objectives         El           a             El             0
Institutional Development    C]           El            0              C]
Physical Objectives          ER           O             O              al
Poverty Reduction            El            El           E              El
Gender Issues                E]           O             El             [E
Other Social Objectives      El           El            11             0
Environmental Objectives     C]            C]           E              01
Public Sector Management     C]            3            E              El
Private Sector                [l          0x            El             E
Development
Other (specify)              O             E            El             0



- 16-
B. Project Sustainability      Likely               Unlikely             Uncertain
03                   0                     0
Highly
C. Bank Performance          satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
(1)                 V)                    (V)
Identification                O                    0                     O
Preparation Assistance        Cl                                         0 0
Appraisal                     Cl                   E[ 0
Supervision                   O                    0                     El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance      satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                   0                    E3                    a
Implementation                0                    0x3                   a
Covenant Compliance           0                    0                     E
Operation (if applicable)     El                   0                     E
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome     satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
E'      )                  (E/)           (/)



- 17-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose          Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. Highway               Highway              FY1982              Complete
Rehabilitation         Improvements
2. Second Highway          Same               FY1984              Complete
Following operations
1. Road Improvement      Highway              FY1996           Implementation
and Traffic Safety     Improvements
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned         Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  June 1990            June 1990
Preparation                               July-Sept 1990       July-Sept 1990
Appraisal                                    10/23/90             10/23/90
Negotiations                                April 1991           April 1991
Board Presentation                           5/14/91             514/91
Signing                                      6/28/91              6/28/91
Effectiveness                                 9/28/91             11/8/91
Project Completion                           12/31/96             6/30/97
Loan Closing                                 6/30/97              12/31/97



- 18-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        15     50      100    180    270       300
Revised Amount            15    26.4    90       154    218     250       250
Actual                   7.96   26.43  122.84  162.5  196.0   239.7    250
Actual as % of revised   53%    100%   136%   106%    90%       96%      100%
estimate
Date of final                                                          Prior to
disbursement                                                            12/31 197
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated                  Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR:
Key implementation indicators were not used for this project.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                  Actual
Key operating indicators in SAR:
Key operating indicators were not used for this project.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                           Purpose as defined at  Status   Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
None.



- 19 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimates
(U-S$ million)             (US$ million)
Item                          Local  Foreign  Total      Local Foreign  Total
costs   costs              costs   costs
I.Civil Works                138.0   138.0  276.0       330.3   330.4  660.7
2.Bitumen                     11.2    44.8   56.0          0       0       0
3.Equipment                    7.6    68.4   76.0          0      75.0   75.0
4.Road Safety                  1.3    11.7   13.0          0      11.3   11.3
5.Cons. Services and Training   0      2.0    2.0          3.9     0       3.9
6.Contingencies               21.9    35.1   57.0          0       0       0
Total                        180.0   300.0  480.0        334.2   416.7  750.9
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs    costs                costs   costs
I.Government                      180.0      0      180.0       334.2   151.7   485.9
2.IBRD                              0     300.0    300.0           0    250.0   250.0
3.Switzerland                       0        0        0            0      15.0    15.0
Total                             180.0   300.0    480.0        334.2   416.7   750.9



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Contract      Original    Orig. Est.   Act.Est.Cost    Est. IRR    Actual Est. IRR- %
No.           Km        Cost-US$m       -US$m            %
CWA-1             60            26            25            19.1             11.75
CWA-4             103           41            29            23.6             12.70
CWA-2             62            22            28.           18.8             13.52
CWA-11            82            45             80           13.5             13.00
CWA-5             76            32            20            42.6             27.78
CWA-3*            31            12            27            57.9             23.03
CWA-13            98            36            23            42.9             13.88
CWA-10            49            19             14           33.5             20.71
CWA-12*           68            28             13           17.9             44.60
CWA-15            110           51            31            67.3             32.34
CWA-14            71            29            21            25.8             19.14
CWA-7             60            24            30            42.8             24.44
CWA-6             66            43             50           17.6             15.17
CWA-19*           35             5             11           28.2             31.39
CWA-21            124           38            145           31.6              2.08
CWA-8*            51             8             13           28.6             29.11
CWA-9*            32             6             9            16.0             32.74
CWA-16*           47             9             14           70.1             12.49
CWA-17*           40            27            43            39.7              0.43
CWA-18*           90            18            29            45.5              7.71
CWA-5a            76            32             19           42.6             27.78
CWY-1             87            40            30            60.3             34.13
CWY-11*           111           46             2            11.0             10.43
CWY-12            41             9             18           29.3             16.16
CWY-3*            37            11             17           39.1             -0.09
CWY-2*            81            25            20            12.0             12.01
CWY-5*            47            24             9            27.6             27.77
CWY-9             45            21            64            41.8             15.44
CWY-13            38            30            56            28.7              1.92
CWY-4*            25             8             2            19.7              7.15
CWY-6             84            26             10           16.5              8.05
* Completed or nearly completed
Note: Estimated Rates of Return are not readily comparable as the final works in many cases differ
substantially from the original design.



-21 -
Table 10: Statuis of Legal Covenants
Turkey
State and Provincial Roads Project
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreement  Section    Type    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
Loan        2.01(b)      02        C                 .          Open Special Account           Opened May 20, 1992
No.3324
3.01(a)     04       NC                 .          Provide adequate counterpart    This was a problem for the
funds                          last several years of the
project.
3.01(b)     05        C                            Appoint Project Director and
steering committee
3.01(c)     12        C                            Select road sections according to   Complied with.
criteria agreed with Bank
3.01(c)     02        C                            Fumish feasibility studies for each  All submitted
road section prior to bidding.
3.01(c)     02        C                            Furnish 6-monthly progress      Submitted on time.
reports.
4.01        01        C                            Maintain audit accounts and have   Submitted on time.
them audited-submit to Bank by
June 30.
Sch. 1      05        C    June 30,    June 30,    All civil works contracts to be let   Completed within the
para.4                      1993        19094      by the agreed date.            revised schedule.
Sch. 1      05        C                            Retroactive financing up to US$25  Done.
para.3                                             million
Sch.1       03        C                            Disbursements for Civil Works   Change effective January
increased from 50% to 60%      22, 1996.
Covenant types:                                                                         Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                             8. =  Indigenous people                C =  covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation    9. =  Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after
from beneficiaries                          10. = Project implementation not             delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds            covered by categories 1-9         CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral       NC = not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or             budgetary or other resource
executing agency                                 allocation
6. = Environmental covenants                     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7. = Involuntary resettlement                         regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            DescribeW and comment on lack of compliance
n.a.                                 n.a.



-22 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                      Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$               Weeks          US$               Weeks         US$
Preparation to                   -          -             -             -               26.7         61.2
appraisal
Appraisal                        -          -             -             -               24.3         48.2
Negotiations through             -          -             -             -                7.3          10.9
Board approval
Supervision                      -          -             -             -               74.3       208,700
Completion                       4       11,000           4         11,000               nc           nc
Total                                                                            nc           nc
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance RatingT
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No. of  Days in   Specialization       Implem.      Developm      Pbl  f3
Year   Persons   Field                         status       objectives    robems
Through appraisal             6190       2        12         HE, E
Appraisal through Board       10/90      2        15         HE, E
approval
Supervision                   11/91      2        5          HE, E              -              -
10/92      1       10           HE                2              1         P&T
3/93       1       10           HE               2              1          P&T
9/93      2        10          HE,E               I             I
2/94       1       9            HE               HS            HS
11/94      1        5           HE               HS             HS
2/95       1       5            HE               HS            HS           CF
11/95      1       4            HE               HS             HS           CF
2/96       1       5            HE               S              S           CF
3/97       1       8             P               S              S           CW
10/97      1        6           HE                -
Completion                 n.a.
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:       3 - Key to Types of Problems:
HE-Highway Engineer                    1-Highly Satisfactory                 P-Procurement
E-Economist                            2-Satisfactory                        T-Training
P-Procurement Specialist                                                     CF-Counterpart Funding
HS-Highly Satisfactory                CW- Civil Works Overruns
S-Satisfactory
U-Unsatisfactory



-23 -
Appendix A: Cuivil Works Bid Evaluation
Contract No.          Date          No. of Bidders        Spread*         % of Estimate
CWY-3                 July 92              13               43%                64%
CWY-2                 9/7/92              26                55%                62%
CWA-1 1              12/25/92              13                n.a.              63%
CWY-1                 7/9/92               10               49%                64%
CWY-l1               6/18/93               7                49%                67%
CWY-5                6/21/93               31               81%                52%
CWA-12               6/25/93               5                 8.3               89%
CWA-13               9/17/93               15                5.9               89%
CWA-19               Sept 93               10               3.8%               93%
CWA-10                Oct 93               12               5.7%               92%
CWY-12               11/17/93              12               5.1%               92%
CWY-9                 Dec 93               7                4.3%               94%
CWA-14               12/24/93              12               10.6%              87%
CWA-15               12/24/93              9                6.6%               89%
CWY-13               12/31/93              8                4.0%               95%
CWA-21               2/17/94               18               5.0%               93%
CWA-22                5/6/94               6                33%                74%
CWY-6                 5/6/94              28                80%                50%
Spread between the highest and lowest bidder.



Appendix B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR
TURKiYE CUMHURiYETi                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLIGI    i        MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MUODURL0L0               GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
.Akjum, TURXZY
B091TCRo1404-01-750/0275                                             07 th May, 1998
3324 S-TU
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF THE                               '
"STATE AND PROVINCIAL ROADS PROJECT "
KMG'S (GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS')
REQUESTS AND VIEWS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We wish  to  express  our gratitude to all World Bark Staff both current,
retired, now working for other loans or countries and alsc to all those who have
since passed away, in Washington and in Ankara who contributed little or much to the
success of our Project,
apart from the ones who caused the cancellation of US $ 50 M., allocated for
the purchase of bizuminous material in the Loan Agreement nu..bered 3324 S-TU,
in soite of the existence of Clauses 2.59, 2.60 and 2.61 of the Procurement
Guideline and Ar-icles  of 83 and 85 of the Operaticnal Directive and also their
being in effective, at the time of ourchase of bituminc s material bid.
The ones wh_ caused cancellation argued that the imple-.enting agency's pre-bid
cost  esti.ate  was  not  exceeded  by a substantial amount,  and  there  existed an
effective competition in the bid,
- while the cost estimate was exceeded by at least $ 1. M.(61-50=11, excluding
price escalation value)  according to the tender value of B 61 M. of the unique
responsive bidder,
- in addition,  the allocated amount for purchase of bituminous material was
only $ 50 M. and the amount that could be added to this allocated amount from the
"unallocated category" was only S 2,265 M,
- furthermore, the cost estimate was exceeded by $ 34,735 M. (87-50-2,265,
including price escalation value, excluding VAT) according to the real comparison
base and
- finally, there was only one (1) responsive bidder according to the World
Bank.
-1-
0
a



TORKiYE CUMHURiYETi                jS    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANULii '   -  MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODORL0)40             GENERAL 0[RECTORCl 6GHWAYS
Ankara. TURKEY
3324 S-TU (ICR)
A- We want to begin from the cancellation matter of US $ 50 Million allocated
for purchase of bituminous material, which is the most important topic, from our
point of view.
The summary of the World Bank's arguments and opinions pertaining to the
purchase of bituminous material bid, which have been stated in the paragraphs of the
Part prepared by the World Bank of the Implementation Completion Report, are as
follows:
Paragraph Nu.8 of E.S. (Evaluation Summary): "Bidding for procurement of US $
50 Million of bitumen to be used for the road upgrading, resulted in only one
responsive bidder, due to restrictive bidding specifications"
Paragraph Nu.32: "The specifications also required that;
The bidder own, or have on charter, special asphalt ships of sufficient
quantity and capacity to transport the bitumen,
It had succesfully transported at least 100.000 metric tons of asphalt in
programmed deliveries under one contract.
KGM insisted that these shipping requirements were necessary to assure timely
delivery."
Paragraph  Nu.33:  "  Only  three  bids  were  received,  one  of  which  was
disqualified because it did not provide a proper letter of guarantee. A second bid,
from an American supplier, met all of the specifications at a price of US $ 61
Million. A third bid from TUpras was received at a price of US $ 36 Million on the
basis of using bitumen from its local refinery"
Paragraph Nu.34: "However, as TUpra* did not meet the stringent shipping
requirements, the Bank could not agree to the KGM recommendation"
Paragraph Nu.35: " In addition to the requirements of the 1986 Technical
Specifications for bitumen, KGM added to the 1992 document, very specific and
demanding language requiring extensive previous experience of bitumen shipment, and
either evidence of ownership or long term charter for specialized bitumen delivery
tankers (Clauses 6.2 and 6.4). KGM argued at the time that these were essential
performance criteria to assure satisfactory supplies and these restrictive criteria
were, therefore, accepted by the Bank."
-2-
..
z
.Man Addissa Kara7olIars Cenci '#1id6i&IUj. 86100 YIic,aek. Aukang. TURKE'y



TORKiYE CUMHURiYET                       F REPUBLIC OF- TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLIdI           MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MUDURL00 60            GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
AnkSra. TUFRJCY
Paragraph Nu.43: "Certainly, KGM bares a share of the responsibility for
insisting on the extremely restrictive shipping specifications. KGM management was
slow in realizing that the original specifications were too restrictive to result in
effective competition"
For the time being, please be informed that all we can tell you is that
various investigators received and recorded the statements of the persons related
with the preparation of the specifications of this purchase and of the other related
persons. Though the investigators, KGM and the Turkish Court, continue trying to
find the faulty institutions and persons, neither the results of the investigators'
reports, nor the decision of the Turkish Court, should not affect the legal rights
of KGM, which demanded either cancellation of the bid ard then rebid again; or  7_
reallocation of this $ 50 Million to other categories, under its and World Bank's
rights and responsibilities given in the Articles of 2.59, 2.60, 2.61 of the
Procurement Guideline and Articles 83 and 85 of the Operational Directive.
After the World Bank's approval of technical and administrative specifications
prepared by KGM (General Directorate of Highways of TUrkiye', only a total of three
tenders  were  received  for this bid,  pertaining  to the ourchase of bituminous
material. The features of these tenders are given below:
1- KGM's Bidding Commission re-turned the internal  .ender envolope without
opening it, to its firm, as this firm dlidn't provide a proper letter of guarantee to
be put in the external envelope.
2- The firm A whose tender was considered by KGM as va^id, but invalid by the
World Bank, proposed a bid value of US $ 36 Million in its tender.
3- The firm B whose tender value was considered by 4KGM as too high (with
repect to normal market prices avai.lable budget and also with respect to the
proposal of US 5 36 Million of the firm A) proposed a bid value of US S 61 Million
excluding VAT and price escalation value in its tender envelcpe.
KGM's Bidding Commission, proposed to the Bank, to asard the contract to the
firm A, to the owner of the lowest tender of US $ 36 Million.
But since the World Bank wanted KGM to award the cont-act to the firm B which
proposed a tender value of US $ 61 M. (US $ 25 M. bigger than the tender value of
the firm A) and insisted on this; KGM proposed the Bank two alternatives below,
considering KGM's and Bank's rights stated in the Articles 2.59 and 2.60 of the
Guideline for Procurement:
-3-
a.
z
E               .~~~~~~~~Mail Addre.s: K.avayottar, Cenel :NlIIdurIiLhi. X6 eo Yiactlepe. .Anku. TURKEY



TORKiYE CUMHURiYETi               j       REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLIGI  <         MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODURLUdJ  A3P   GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
Ankan. TURKEY
1- a) To cancel this bid,
b) to amend the  specifications  (deleting,  correcting the items in the
existing specifications preventing competition such as Article 6.4: "The bidder must
have successfully completed delivery and transportation of AT LEAST 100.000 METRIC
TONS OF ASPHALT to the total of various ports WITH MONTHLY PROGRAMS, UNDER A SINGLE
CONTRACT, WITHIN THE LAST FIVE YEARS" and Article 6.3: The bidder SHALL HAVE THE
TANKERS that have the capacity and the quantity or shall have hired (time charter)
them for at least 4 (four) years during transportation period, on long term duration
etc. and then
c) to rebid this purchase of bituminous material work or
2- To cancel this bid and spend the total allocated amount of US S 50 M. of
this category, in any other category the World Bank will determine. (but preferably
in the category of civil works according to KGM)
While the total allocated amount for this category in the Loan Agreement is
only US $ 50 M., the proposed value by the Bidder B, is US $ 61 M. (excluding 12 %
VAT amount according to the last sentence of the Article 14 of the specification,
and also excluding price escalation amount and haulage costs). The cost with the
price escalation amount would be about 61x1,436= US $ 87 M., if we take the price
escalation percentage of 43,6 % in the previous contract, into consideration, also
for this contract. So the real contract cost of the bidder B with the related costs
(excluding the haulage cost of 487 500 tons of bituminous material, which would be
brought to the Ports, from the ports to the various sites, which are 60-500 kms away
from the Ports) would be equal to at least 61x1,436x1,12= $ 98 M. In tne articles
2.59 and 2.60 of the Procurement Guidelines, it is said "Rejection of all bids is
justified when there is lack of effective competition." Since according to the World
Bank there is only one valid bid, in this bidding and since the total allocated
amount of $ 50 M. for this purchase in the loan agreement, is exceeded by a
substantial amount, as 61-50= 5 11 M., with the tender value of $ 61 M.
(If we make our comparison taking the total costs, then the difference becomes
even bigger as 87-62,4= $ 24,6 M. even if the haulage costs that would be paid from
local expenditure part of the Turkish Budget, is excluded).
It is never possible for the Bank to finance and it was not the intention of
KGM, to request the Bank to finance all of the related cost of bitumen. The
allocated amount for purchase of bituminous material was only $ 50 M. and KGM wanted
to buy only that much. So in fact comparisons for finding whether the budget was
exceeded by the real cost of tendered value of $ 87 M. (including also $ 26 M. for
price escalation value) should have been done with respect to $ 52,265 M. ($ 2,265
M. is the maximum amount that can be provided for the purchase of bituminous
material from the unallocated category of the Loan.)
-4-
3                      tMaU Addeta,,%  K2aruyatxr, Genet NWtdUrfii4ii 06 tOO YCcetepc. Ankara. TURKEY



TORKIYE CUMHURiYETi                    *X REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLIGI  pw   MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODORLOOO              'GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
Anka. TLURJEY
In spite of these obvious facts, the proposal of the Bank to KGM in the form
of:
"Either KGM awards the contract to the firm B proposing $ 61 M. or
$ 50 M., the allocated amount for this purchase will be cancelled."
was very unjust and wrong. But unfortunately this amount was cancelled and the
loan amount was reduced from $ 300 M. to $ 250 M. Because of this decrease, 18 road
contracts  could  not  be  completed by the closing date 31.12.1997 of the Loan.
(Widening of some road sections and/or constructing road bed and/or construction of
pavement works and/or paving with asphaltic concrete etc. of various road sections
of the 18 contracts could not be completed.)
This is a formal request and the Bank, should correct this faulty, unjust
decision as soon as possible taking the clear, open statements of the articles 2.59,
2.60, and 2.61 of Procurement Guideliness of the Bank and articles 83 and 85 of the
Operational Directive of the World Bank (OD 11.00) stating:
"When there are legitimate differences in judgement between the Bank and the
Borrower"
"Rejection of all bids is justified when there is a lack of effective
competition"
"If the lowest evaluated responsiLve bid, exceeds the Borrower's pre-bid cost
estimates by a substantial margin, the Borrower consider requesting new bids."
"Every effort should be made to avoid misprocurement, by providing comments
and advice in the review of bidding documents and bid evaluation. If, however,
misprocurement can not be avoided, the country director should be kept informed and
individual cases involving large cancellations should be brought to the attention of
the Senior Vice President, Operations, the Regional Vice President, and the Chief of
CODPR."
KGM believes that the Bank shoulcd have agreed to rebidding of the bitumen with
revised specifications instead of its clecision to cancel the US $ 50 M. and that the
Procurement Guidelines provide enough justification for a different decision than
the one taken by the Bank.
It was not the intention of KGM and the Bank to finance all the cost related
to bitumen, as haulage costs from ports to sites, 12 % VAT etc. but to finance
foreign expenditure cost of the 487.500 tons of bitumen including its price
escalation value. Total maximum amount which may be available from the Loan was
about 50+2,265=$ 52,265 M. including the amount of $ 2,3 M. which may be allocated
from "unallocated category" of the Loan. While the corresponding cost according to
the tenderer B was about 61+26= $ 87 M. Thus, the responsive bid was 87-52,265= US $
34,735 M. above the cost estimate for the quantity of bitumen at issue, which would
seem to justify a finding of a "substantial amount"
Rebidding with revised specifications was fully possible when we consider the
Guideline.
In our opinion the Bank took a decision that did not have the interest of
Turkey as the main priority and that idea will remain in KGM until the Bank revises
2    its position.                           -5-
pi
..
0
I
dMail Addr,..: Karuyallrt, Cernc  l&,dUrtlUlAi, 06 100 Yuctlepe. AnIkaLr. TURKEY
-.-.                    .. ._   ...   *....   S.fl.. _v ....... ia$*ttA l,~W.     tf,lA  



TORKiYE CUMHURIYETi                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLI6I   Ad    MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODORL0OO                GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
Ankara. TURKEY
There are three  possible  solutions for the Bank to remedy this wrong and  I
unjust decision.
1- The first solution is the cancellation of the "cancellation decision of the
amount of $ co M. (whose commitment charges from the date of loan signature, until :.
the cancellation date, have been paid ty the Turkish institutions) of the Loan 3324
S-TU" and,
extension of the project completion date of the Loan 3324 S-TU, for a period
of just 6 months after the decision date of undoing the cancellation of the $ 50 M.
This duration will be enough for most of the 18 incomplete contracts to be
completed, at the 100 % level or very close to that level. This duration will be
also enough to disburse the total amount of $ 50 M. since many payment certificates
have been already paid by KGM at 100 %, without any contribution from the Bank.
2- The second solution is again to undo the cancellation of the S 50 M. from
the Loan numbered 3324 S-TU but to add this amount to the loan amcunt of the ongoing
Loan  4049-TU  (without  charging  any  commitment  expenses,  in  response  to  the
commitment charges already paid for the cancelled $ 50 M.) which: is the same type
with the 3324 S-TU Loan and is the continuation of the Loan 3324 S-TU) by the same
amount of $ 50 M. to be expended for the contracts of this loan.
3- The third solution should be applied, if the first two solutions could not
be executed.
The World Bank should take a decision not to receive any commitment expenses
for S 50 M. which was cancelled by the Bank unjustly, for the period beginning frcm
the Loan signature date, until 31 August 1993 the date of cancellation of S 50 M.
Otherwise,  the. World  Bank's  confessing  its  sins  in  the  Bank's  Part  o.  the
Implementation Completion Report as given below will be void, empty and meaningless
from the General Directorate of Highways point of view:
Paragraph Nu. 10 of ES: "It is not clear why the Bank staff did not object
more strongly to the restrictive shipping requirements for bitumen procurement"
Paragraph Nu.32: "In spite of the stated intention in the (KGM's) letter of
September 17, 1991 to allow local supplier Tuprag to compete"
Paragraph Nu.38: "The relevant paragraph of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines
dated May 1985, which were in effect at the time of the bitumen procurement, are
reproduced below to give a full sense of their meaning.:
-6-
|                .>l~~~~~~~Aua Addrea: Karayellart Gcnrl :Ubddurliuii. X6 100 Yljr.tEM,. Arlars, TURKEll



TORKiYE CUMHURiYET1                       REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLI I            MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODURL06O 0             GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
Ankara. TURICEY
"2.60 Bidding documents usually provide that Borrowers may reject all bids
(There is such an article in KGM's Regulations For Submitting Quotaticns, "Clause
5.6: Refuse all bids and to cancel tender provisions at any time before the tender
concluded,  without having any responsibility against bidders.-KGM) However,  the   -
Borrower should ccr.sult with the Bank before holding any negotiations, or rejecting
all bids or soliciting new bids. All bids shall not be rejected and new bids invited
on the same specifications solely for the purpose of obtaining lower prices, except
in cases where the lowest evaluated bid exceeds the cost estimates by a substantial
amount. In such cases, the Borrower nay, as an alternative to rebidding, negotiate
with the lowest evaluated bidder (or failing a satisfactory response, with the next
lowest bidder) to try to obtain a satisfactory contract. Rejection of all bids is
also justified when bids are not substantially respcnsive  or there is lack of
effective competition. If all bids are rejected the Borrower should review the
causes justifying the rejection and consider making either revisions in the
specifications or modifications in the project or both before inviting new bids"
B- Our views on the other matters mentioned in the Bank's Part of the ICR are
as follows:
Preface: The last disbursement was made on 25 March 1998.
Preface: The first 10 pages of this report (excluding enclosures) prepared by
KGM, should be one part of ICR, but not the Appendix B as was planned and stated in
the Preface.
ES-6, I.P-11,13,14,26,27, (Paragraph 6 of Evaluation Summary and Paragraphs of
11,13,14,26,27 of the I.Part)
Since 3324 S-TU is a sector project, including financing a -ultiyear program
of works with only the first year program of road strengthenIng specifically
identified at the time of appraisal., the number of contracts have been increased
later.
There are 13 completed contracts and 18 incompleted contracts. Of course,
cancellation of bituminous material allocation by the Bank, has created additional
financing difficulties and delayed the ccrrpletion of some contracts. But we, as KGK.
undertake the responsibility of conmpleting all incompleted, feasible contracts at
least at about 100 % level.
Paragraph Nu. 24 and 46: The Swiss Government has paid US $ 14.999.444,79 and
the loan has closed.
ES-9, I.P-28,29: Unfortunately, this is a general and natural trend. The bid
reductions become low, or high prices are tendered in the period, following the
period at which many contracts are awarded and vice versa. That was the reason why
KGM was applying "the most appropriate tender value" criteria instead of "the lowest
evaluated bid value" in determining the awardee of the civil works contracts, before
the intervention of the World Bank, thrc.ugh the Loans. Suitable distribution of
number and amount of bids, throughout the years and also months of the year, will
serve to decrease or to eliminate these disadvantages.
-7-
..
E                      Mtalt Addres": K,Jr.ayOIUr, Genel MldilEuilAiL.   104 lo je este. Ankiars,. TURKEY



TORKiYE CUMHURIYETi                Jt    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE iSKAN BAKANLII           MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODORL00O              GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
Azkara. TURKEY
Government has taken necessary precautions and now we do not have any problem
of availability of Government counterpart funding. Government has provided and
continues to prcvide enough allocation and,  has released and has been releasing the
allocation amounts on time, in the ongoing World Bank Loan numbered 4049-TU. As an
example, unfortunately KGM could spend only $ 7,964 M. which is the 35,6 % of the
provided allocation of $ 22,399 M. corresponding to foreign expenditure part of the
allocation in 1996.
In  the same way, while the allocation amount,  corresponding -to foreign
expenditure part, was $ 36,3 M.; only the amount of $ 28,6 M. which is equal to 79 %
of the allocated amount, could have been expended in 1997. All allocations have been
released almost 100 % at the beginning of the year for KGM to spent.
Paragraph Nu.4 of the I.Part: Tables giving infornation on "Accidents at Urban
and Rural Roads" and "Types of Accidents, Number of Accidents, Deaths, Injuries"
have been attached to this Report.
Paragraph Nu.32: "Since it is said that the actual specifications were not
available in the Bank's files, the photocopy of the Original specification (having
Aziz Tureli's and Ahmet Ustaoglu's signatures on each page) pertaining to purchase
of bituminous material, is enclosed to this Report"
Paragraph Nu. 41,42 of the I.Part: "The positive effects of the machines,
equipment and spare parts purchased under 3324 S-TU-, are as follows:
1- As it is shown in the attached comparison chart; the number and rate of
machines which have completed their economic life have been decreased considerably,
and in this way, a new, more powerful and effective machinery fleet have been
acquired. The age end quantity comparison of some of the machines between 1993-1997
is shown in Annex 3b.
The percentages of the purchased machine nun,bers are as follows:
E S. Maintenance Machines
21 % Snow Removal Machines
1 % Road Construction and other Machines
2- Maintenance services that could not be performed sufficiently in the past,
have been done and working capacity has been increased by the purchased machines and
equipment. Fcr e:ample; thanks to the new road marking machines, the marked road
length has been increased and snow removal machines have ensuree road and traffic
safety etc.
3- Prccu,rement of spare parts also positively effected our fleet on
mairterEance and repair works.
A         4- Training courses of the purchased machines introduced new and advanced
technologies and improved the performance of the staff.
I
u               M~~~~~~~~all Addrem: KNr,ayoilari G.i,eI SUdilrUiAjI. 00 100 Ykcflht'. Ankara. TURKEY



TORKIYE CUMHURiYETi                       REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
BAYINDIRLIK VE ISKAN BAKANLII i          MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SETTLEMENT
KARAYOLLARI GENEL MODORL00                GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
5- Road maintenance, srow removing and operation works are rehab_litated so
the Highways fleet became more pcwerful and partially modern.
Spare Parts ex:penditures decreased, thus economic wcrking conditions are
provided.
As a resu:t, when positive effects of the Loan 3324 S-It. are considered on the
modernization of machinery fleet and reduction of general workirg and spare parts
expenditures, it carn be stated that the aim of this project has been achieved as
expected.
Paragraph Nu.53: Frice escalation items have been changed upon the proposal of
the WB. These new clauses are causing KGM to pay varing price escalation values
within the related year, but a2ways riore than the material price escalaticri amounts,
determined according  to  the  previous  specification,  depending on the kird and
properties of the contracts.
Yaman ICK
Genel MUdUr
ENCLOSURES:(131)
Annex 1: The list and latest ccnditicn of the civil work cc-tracts
Annex 2: Specif caticn
Annex 3: Tables for equipment and rtnachines
Annex 4: Tables relating to accidents
Annex 5: A summary of the progress report (117 pages)
-9-
z
E                     MrUi Add~.a Kaaoflar Cml tdU,XalBhl. 060 Vileuiep. Aak,. 1UUJC.



BIRD 296 18
BULGARIA                      McC<                                30'                                                                   35'                                                                    40'
To Kcp'ila Andrevc               ._GEORGIA
Ed. rurl- 
r 4iEdirra  *irklIaraI                                                                                 - Kik--
GREECE   r                                              . ,                                         .                        A                                                                                                         /    ' _                                     ... ,
4&4  00   M, JCYI TeEr~\  aroCW-                                                                                                                                                                                         1'               -Q   3g>
$  x4WA tO  CWA-12\    >\  vCWA2d  zrdu 
-, :                    00g 1S2         Is;   aI         'rr.-'                                ' '"      '-A\ra ''~   Katma                                a,sa                                            Traea         Rice 's .rri.        Arc.t -                     ARMENIA Xr
&e40$arakki9                      A0                                                                                            A' Cau                CWMLTDRA-           IMRVEET i3 'MROyhurEPTA1
0 * ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     Eas  irT                 ANKAR                                                                                                               AO'                                br-w                   nIxcf,djs ntGs
RJ .9L
(idaho *            /                                                                                                                                               '   AAA t'c'    -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
a  'At     ~~~~~~~~  'A'  CWA1O  CWA-12                  'jyrsahr        ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~         ~       ~        ~       ~       RM NI
</                   WAS                                                      'I                                                                                uculY>-~a                                                                  s~     SLMI
.. kk.19)                                 i ~~.                                                                                                                                                   Rcail   'AybJ'7
Mar,                                                                                                                                                     .             '                -                                                       REPOF~~~~~~~~~~~~
sK                                                                                                                                             Mu      -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W-,
C)   >A1     /~~                ~ .. ...                                                     CWA 13 2enaa                                  WY4,-I
M_                                                                    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__                                                                                MDac7C"".a .                                                    REP  OF'A
Kala                                                                                                           .                              Ktaaa/&Mri
a  IF                                                                                                                        M~M, FK,jl..                                                                                     M-d    /
Haley  CWA-1& 4/appa  '7                                              TURKEY
(A~ ~ a l Or/  5 Y R I AN                                                  STATE AND PROVINCIAL
jARAB REP.                                                       ROADS PROJECT
s'I                                                                                                                                                D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMPLETED ROAD IMPROVEMENTS  * PROVINICE CAP TAS
A'sH                                                                                                                                                                 ONGOING ROAD IMPROVEMENTS           *     NAT ON/AL CAP; IAi
MAINROADS                                PROVINC  ROUND/ARIE
-  -INTERN/aT 0/AI ROUNDAR ES         3
1?0     130     200 KILOMETERS               CPU                                                                                                                                            r'rrac                          TA
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
JUNE 1990



