Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY         F ILE            O     Y EJ
Report No. 3727
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAIMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
December 23, 1981
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Balboa (B) 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.205 pounds
1 ton (m ton)    =  2.205 pounds
1 hectare (ha)   =  2.47 acres
1 liter (1)      =  0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
BDA     -   Agricultural Development Bank
BNP     -   National Bank of Panama
CIAT    -   International Center of Tropical Agriculture
IDB     -   Inter-American Development Bank
IFE     -   Institute of Economic Development
MIDA    -   Ministry of Agricultural Development
MU      -   Management Unit
M&E     -   Monitoring and Evaluation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface        ..........................................................           i
Basic Data Sheet ....     ........................  ........................       ii
Highlights ........         ...............................................        iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.    SUMMARY ................................................                1
II.    MAIN ISSUES ............................................                2
A.   Delays in Implementation .....         ..................... .     2
B.   Group Farm Development .............................               4
C.   Breeding Farms .....................................               4
Attachment:    Borrower's Comments .................................                6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Background   ........      .....................................        10
II.   Project Formulation    ......      ..............................       11
III.   Project Implementation     ......      ...........................      15
IV. Project Impact ......                                                     20
V.   Financial and Economic Returns -.       -   -    -   .. . . .   .       24
VI.   Institutional Development and Growth       .............  ......        25
VII.   Special Issues         .      ..................... ...... .            28
VIII.   Bank Performance .       . ......................           .           29
IX.   Conclusions and 'Lessons Learned     ..................  ......         30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
1.  Schedule of Loan Disbursements ............  ..    ..............  32
2.  Distribution of Subloans by Size .....      .....................  33
3.  Distribution of Subloans by Farm Size .....................       34
4.  Distribution of Subloans by Type of Enterprise ..........  ..     35
5. Breakdown of Farms Assisted, by Farm Type, Area,
and Subloan Size ........................................       36
6.  Schedule of Project Costs and Subloan Disbursements      .......  37
7.  Project Financing in Current Prices ..........  ..   ...........  38
8.  Main Indicators of On-Farm Impact, by Farm Type ...........       39
9.  Evolution of Index of Key Farm and Border Prices,
in Constant Prices ......................................       40
10.  Equity Situation of Soloy Indian Project and Asentamientos.       41
ANNEX 1  Beef/Dairy Ranch
Table 1 Herd Development Projection ..............   ..    ...............  42
2 Land Use Data and Projections .............................        43
3  On-farm Cattle and Milk Prices .....       .......................  44
4  Sales and Operating Cost Projections ......................       45
5  Cash Flow Projections ....-................................       46
6 Financial Rate of Return Calculations ..................   .       47
ANNEX 2  Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Table 1 Herd Development Projection ...............................         48
2  Land Use Data and Projections .............................       49
3  On-farm Cattle Prices .....................................       50
4  Sales and Operating Costs .................................       51
5  Cash Flow Projections .....................................       52
6 Financial Rate of Return Calculations .....................        53
ANNEX 3  Economic Analysis .........................................        54
Table 1 Estimate of Economic Farmgate Prices of Beef, 1972-1980 ...        55
2  Estimate of Economic Farmgate Prices of Milk, Input Parity,
1972-1980 ........----------------.....................         56
3  On-farm Beef and Milk Prices, 1972-1980 .................  ..     57
4  Beef and Milk Prices Used for Economic Analysis ..      .........  58
5 Estimate of Economic Rate of Return ..........   ..   ...........  59



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORX
PANAMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the First Livestock Development
Project in Panama for which a loan of US$4.7 million was approved on May 1,
1973.  The final disbursement was made on March 19 and the loan was closed on
March 31, 1981, after a delay of 27 months.      A second livestock development
project was approved in April 1977.
This audit consists of a memorandum prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) and a project completion report (PCR) dated
June 26, 1981. The PCR was prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean
Regional Office following a visit to Panama in March 1981.      The audit memo-
randum is based on a review of the Appraisal Report (No. 42a-PAN) dated
April 19, 1973, the President's Report (No. P-1233-P) of April 19, 1973, the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements dated June 8, 1973 and the PCR; together with a
review of correspondence with the Government, the Borrower and internal Bank
memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files, and discus-
sions with Bank staff who have been associated with the Project.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower on September 17, 1981
for comments.   Comments that have been received have been taken into account
in the audit report and have been reproduced as Attachments I and II.
The audit suggested some minor revisions in the PCR which were
accepted and have been included therein.      On the basis of this abbreviated
procedure,  the audit generally finds the Region's PCR to be an excellent
review and analysis of the project's implementation and accomplishments. The
audit memorandum expands on the issues of delays in project implementation,
group farm development, and the design of purebred breeding ranches, which are
important for livestock as well as other projects to be financed by the Bank.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
PANAMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual or
Item                                Expectation      Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ mLllion)                  13.5                12.7
Underrun (%)                                      -                  6.0
Loan Amount (US$ million)                          4.7                 4.7
Disbursed                                        4.7                4.7
Cancelled   May 31, 198L                          -                  -
Repaid to                                                            1.0
Disbursed and Outstanding to                        -                  3.7
Date Physical Components Completed               06/30/78            12/31/80
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)             85                  100
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                     n.a.                 50
Economic Rate of Return (C)                        15                    8
Institutional Performance                           -       Worse than expected
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY74   FY75   FY76   FY77    FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81
Estimated                  0.8    2.4    3.8    4.3    4.7     -      -       -
Actual                     0.7    0.7    2.2    3.2    3.7    4.1     4.3    4.7
Actual/Estimated %          87     29     58     74     78     -       -      -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Item                             Plan        Revisions      Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable          -             -         01/07/72
Government's Application               Not in file         -        Not in file
Negotiations                             01/31/73          -     01/31 - 02/03/73
Board Approval                           05/01/73          -         05/01/73
Loan Agreement Date                          -             -         06/08/73
Effectiveness Date                       09/06/73      11/02/73      11/02/73
Closing Date                            .12/31/78      06/30/80,     03/19/81
03/31/81
Borrower                               Banco Nacional de Panama
Executing Agency                       Banco Nacional de Panama
Fiscal Year of Borrower                January 1 - December 1
Follow-on Project Name                 Second Livestock Development Project
Loan Number                          1397-PAN
Amount (US$ million)                 8.0
Loan Agreement Date                  04/28/77






- iii -
MISSION DATA
Sent    Month,    No. of     No. of     Man-     Date of
Item              by     Year       Weeks     Persons    weeks    Report
Identification        FAO/CP   10/71       -          -         -          -
Preparation           FAO/CP   02/72       -          -         -          -
Appraisal              Bank   6-7/72       -          4         21.5    04/19/73
Total                                                       21.5
Supervision I          Bank    08/73      1.8         1          1.8    08/23/73
Supervision II        Bank     02/74      2.2         1         2.2     02/26/74
Supervision III       Bank     07/74      1.8         1         1.8     08/15/74
Supervision IV         Bank    02/75      2.4         1         2,4     03/24/75
Supervision V          Bank    05/75      2.4         1         2.4     07/22/75
Supervision VI         Bank    08/75      0.6         1         0.6     08/28/75
Supervision VII        Bank    11/75      0.5         1         0.5     01/16/76
Supervision VIII      Bank     05/76      1.2         1         1.2     07/14/76
Supervision IX         Bank    11/76      2.0         2         3.4     01/06/77
Supervision X          Bank    06/77      1.2         2         2.4     08/24/77
Supervision XI        Bank     01/78      0.4         2         0.8    02/22/78
Supervision XII        Bank    05/78      1.2         1         1.2     06/13/78
Supervision XIII      Bank     09/78      0.2         2         0.4     10/13/78
Supervision XIV       Bank     02/79      0.2         1         0.2     02/02/79
Supervision XV         Bank    03/79   Desk Study     1     Desk Study 03/08/79
Supervision XVI        Bank    02/80      1.1         2         2.2     03/17/80
Supervision XVII      Bank     08/80      0.4         2         0.4     08/29/80
Supervision XVIII     Bank     10/80      0.1         1         0.1     10/17/80
24.0
Completion I           Bank    03/81      3.0         2         6.0     06/26/81
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE
Name of Currency                        Balboa (B)
Year:                                   Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average                  US$1  =  B1
Intervening Years' Average              US$1  =  B1
Completion Year Average                 US$1  =  Bl






- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
PANAMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
HIGHLIGHTS
The objective of the Project was to further develop the livestock
industry through financing 570 small and medium dairy farms and cattle ranches,
and individually or group operated, large beef breeding and fattening ranches.
It was the first Bank loan for livestock development in Panama and was follow-
ed by a second project in March 1977.     The project was expected to increase
total milk and beef production by 10% and 30%, respectively.
The project took 50% longer than anticipated mainly because there
were delays in staffing the management unit and in appointing consultants,
which delayed loan effectiveness.     In addition, some subborrowers took an
exceptionally long time to complete investments.     At completion, incremental
annual milk production reached appraisal targets but beef production was only
15% of the volume expected.
The reasons for the under achievement of beef production were
cyclically lower prices, lower than expected productivity on participating
small and medium farms/ranches and poor performance on large beef breeding/
fattening farms.   The overall economic rate of return is now estimated at 8%
compared with 15% estimated at appraisal.
The number of beneficiary farms and ranches was significantly
less than expected at appraisal, 370 compared with 540.    In terms of percent-
age, the largest shortfall was in the number of group and individual, large
breeding/fattening ranches financed.
Other points of interest are:
-    the Bank did not identify with sufficient precion which specialists
were essential for start-up and implementation and those that were
needed for longer-term institutional development (PPAM, para. 17);
-    the attempt to develop larger scale group ranches was not very
successful, partly because the Government did not approve managers
as agreed (PPAM, paras. 18-20);
-    risks and uncertainties of purebreed beef ranching reduced invest-
ments for this category to one-fifth of that expected at appraisal
(PPAM, paras. 22-26);
-    the project significantly increased knowledge of modern beef produc-
tion (PPAM, para. 8 and PCR, para. 9.02); and
-    an alternative source of funds reduced      the interest of a major
lending institution in the project (PCR, paras. 3.07 and 6.05).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PANAMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
I.  SUMMARY
1.        The Project, which was the first loan for livestock development but
the fourth to support the agricultural and food sector of Panama, aimed to
further develop the cattle (beef and dairy) industry. The project was expect-
ed to assist in financing development of about 570 cattle enterprises, mainly
small dairy farms, multi-purpose cattle ranches of medium size, relatively
large beef breeding and fattening ranches operated by individuals or ,roups
(asentamientos) under the Government's land reform settlement program and beef
breeding centers.   The project also provided technical services for project
management, management training, and consultants' advice on pasture and
livestock fertility improvements and for preparing a feasibility study of
livestock development on the Atlantic Coast - a project possibility for
future Bank financing.
2.        Total project cost was estimated at about US$13.5 million, of which
the Bank loan would finance US$4.7 million; participating banks, US$6.2
million; beneficiaries, IJS$2.4 million; and the Government, US$0.2 million.
In addition, participating banks were expected to provide short-term loans to
project beneficiaries for feeder cattle purchase and working capital.
3.        Subloans to farms and farmers would be for seven to 12 years with
interest of at least lO percent and a grace period of three to four years.
The Banco Nacional de ]?anama (BNP) was to be both the Borrower and the execut-
ing agency for the project. To facilitate implementation, a management
unit (MU) was to be set up in BNP (a condition of effectiveness) and staffed
by specialists in dairy and beef cattle production, agricultural economics
and administration.
4.        The project was expected to increase Panama's milk production by
7,400 mt and beef by 8,300 mt (dressed weight) per year, representing an
increase in national production of 10% for milk and 30% for beef, 1973 base.
5.        The project was significantly delayed during the early years and
again during the final years. The main reasons for delay after effectiveness
(which itself was delayed by two months) were slowness by the Borrower in
fully staffing the management unit so that it could become fully operational
and effective, and in selecting and appointing consultant specialists.
Inordinately long investment periods by some sub-borrowers prolonged the
disbursement period toward the end of the project, requiring several post-
ponements of the closing date.    The loan was finally closed in March 1981.
Project implementation took 7.5 years or 50 percent longer than expected.



6.        Although the implementation period was considerably extended, total
project costs were about on target (6% overrun) for several reasons.         The
total number of sub-loans was reduced from 570 to 340 or by 40%.      Moreover,
participating farms were smaller than expected, averaging 142 ha compared with
209 ha expected at appraisal. The average size of sub-loans was 53% larger in
nominal terms at B25,500 but 14% lower in real terms than anticipated.        No
procurement and disbursement problems were experienced by the project. There
were some changes in the project concept during implementation.      One subloan
not planned for at appraisal was made for livestock development on the Soloy
Reservation which benefitted 82 Indian families. Two sub-loans were made for
beef breeding ranches compared with the ten that were planned.
7.        Incremental milk production was 7,200 tons, or less than 3% below
appraisal estimates.    On the other hand,    the increase in beef production
reached only 15% of the volume expected. These achievements are partly
explained by shifting relative prices for beef and milk for processing,
which favored milk production at the expense of beef, but also by lower than
expected calving and stocking rates on beef ranches and by higher milk produc-
tion per cow.
8.        The major institutional impacts of the project have been to increase
knowledge of important aspects of beef and dairy production in Panama such as
breeding and nutrition and to acquaint livestock technicians with the nature
and usefulness of project analysis and the provision of credit for the live-
stock sector.
9.        The overall economic rate of return is now estimated at 8% compared
with 15% estimated at appraisal.    In addition to the lower technical coeffi-
cients noted above, the lower rate is the result of cyclically lower real
prices for beef and milk and below average performance of the group ranches,
the Soloy Reservation sub-loan, and the beef breeding/fattening farms.
II. MAIN ISSUES
A.   Delays in Implementation
10.       Project implementation took 50% longer than expected and the PCR
(para 3.04) in discussing disbursement delays (which are closely related to
implementation delays) faults the:    (i) initial slowness in recruiting suit-
able technical and administrative staff for the MU as well as in hiring the
required consultants; (ii) limited participation in the project by banks other
than BNP; and (iii) the need for a three-year period to implement investment
plans at the farm level, which resulted in disbursement lags for subloans in
the late 1970s.
11.       The Loan Agreement included a number of covenants that were designed
to ensure that project start-up would be timely.    The establishment of the MU
and the appointment of the project director were conditions of effectiveness



and were expected to be accomplished three months after the Loan Agreement was
signed.   It took four months to appoint the project director, but the MU was
established within the expected time frame.
12.       In addition to the director,     the Loan Agreement also stipulated
that an agricultural economist and a dairy production specialist were to be
appointed (as staff of the MU) within four months after loan effectiveness.
Furthermore, consultants for (i) tropical pasture and legumes and (ii) animal
reproduction and fertility were to be appointed twelve months after effective-
ness (Loan Agreement Section 3.06). Appointment of all these specialists was
contingent on prior Bank approval.    The Bank also provided detailed terms of
reference for these specialists (Annex 16 of the Appraisal Report).
13.       By March 1974, the first stipulated deadline, the Bank had not even
received any information on possible candidates.        Due to the Borrower's
difficulties in finding suitable and qualified specialists - the Bank twice
found that the agricultural economist and the dairy specialist suggested were
insufficiently qualified - the Loan Agreement's compliance date had to be
extended repeatedly and at considerable administrative cost to the Bank and
the Borrower. After the third extension the Bank even suggested to the
Borrower that further disbursement applications should not be submitted until
the required specialists were in post.
14.       The search continued and only then did the Bank take note that one
of the difficulties in locating and employing the specialists was that sala-
ries offered by the private sector were higher than those BNP could afford.
Finally the Bank agreed to the appointment of two Borrower-recommended candi-
dates on November 4, [974, eight months later than anticipated.
15.       Due to the delays encountered in appointing the local specialists,
the consultants for pasture improvement and animal fertility could not be
hired.  The Bank again extended the compliance date, first to January 31, 1975
and subsequently after two more extensions the pasture specialist was hired in
June 1975, two years after the Loan Agreement date.
16.       In the meantime the Borrower started reasoning that a fertility
specialist was not critical to successful project implementation and that as
a consequence of improving pastures some of the fertility problems might
disappear.   The Bank agreed and waived the requirement for the animal repro-
duction and fertility consultant.
17.       In the audit's view the Bank did not identify with sufficient preci-
sion which specialists were essential for start-up and implementation, as
opposed to longer-term institutional development. In the case of those local
specialists essential for start-up and implementation, preparation of a short-
list with requisite remuneration would have revealed potential shortages of
qualified personnel and indicated that project salaries would have had to
be competitive with the private sector.     Similarly, preparation of a short-
list of expatriate consultants may have expedited their hiring.          In all
instances, start-up may have proceeded more quickly had the Bank been more
insistent on agreed deadlines.l/
1/  See Attachment II, para.    l(a)  for Borrower's comments on this issue.



-4-
B.   Group Farm Development
18.       An important feature of the project was the proposed introduction
of large scale livestock production through project loans to asentamientos
(land reform settlement enterprises).    Loans were expected to be made to 10
such settlements.    However, only three were made and another to the Soloy
Reservation (see PCR para. 4.11) which was not foreseen at appraisal.
19.       Only the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA) made sub-loans to
the asentamientos and also to the Soloy Indians.     The Bank suggested in 1975
that no more sub-loans should be made to the asentiamentos until managers had
been appointed for the three settlements which had received sub-loans up to
that time.  These managers were to be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture
as stipulated in the Guarantee Agreement (Sec. 3.03) but only one manager was
appointed.   The Bank brought the matter to the attention of the Borrower and
apparently because no more sub-loans were made to asentamientos, the issue was
dropped.
20.       Despite the reduced lending for livestock development through
asentamientos under Loan 901, Loan 1397, the Second Livestock project, also
provides funds to support such development.    Up to the present, no sub-loans
have been made to asentamientos. Of the three asentamientos which have
received sub-loans under Loan 901, two are judged to be successful at the
present time (PCR para. 4.12 and Table 9).
21.       It is regretable that the Government did not follow through on its
agreement to provide managers for the asentamientos, since it was at Govern-
ment request that lending to asentamientos was included in the project.       If
more had been financed, and after thorough study of their accomplishments and
problems, they could have served as models (or sub-models) for agricultural
development schemes involving settlements or financing the development of land
holders with small units.   It should be useful to undertake an impact evalua-
tion study of the settlement performance at the end of the Second Livestock
Project.   The Bank attempted to support group livestock development in the
Guyana Livestock Project (Credit 221) without success because of institutional
problems and reluctance of prospective participants to get involved with
outside managers.    The Bank also supported lending to Agricultural Reform
Enterprises in Peru (Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 933-PE)) with
moderate success. The Panamanian experience could prove valuable.
C.     The Purebred Breeding Ranches
22.       The project provided funds for financing 10 purebred breeding
ranches to "increase the supply of breeding stock and maintain and improve the
quality of the national herd"l/.     Little interest could be found for this
kind of highly specialized venture during project implementation; only two
ranches participated.
1/ AR p. 8 para. 3.01 (e).



- 5 -
23.       In the audit's view there are several factors which militate against
private purebred farns.    Some of these factors were apparent at the time of
appraisal but were obviously not considered.       First, the much higher risk
involved in this kind of undertaking; second, the uncertain market prospects
for pedigree cattle; third, the competition with artificial insemination (AI)
a cheaper and less risky approach to obtain the same goal, i.e., improvement
of the national herd.
24.       At appraisal it was estimated that the average subloan for a 400 ha
breeding ranch would be of the order of $68,000 compared with $20,400 for a
breeding/fattening ranch of the same size or $12,800 for a 100 ha beef/dairy
farm. Actually the costs for the two purebred ranches increased substantially
and average subloans amounted to $680/ha.l/ while only $106/ha were required
for breeding fattening ranches and $172/ha for beef/dairy farms.
25.       The substantially higher investment cost of the breeding ranch is
due to the need to purchase expensive pedigree cattle which is imported from
abroad.  The appraisal expected expenditures per ranch for this item alone to
reach $38,000.    Considering the uncertainties of the adapting abilities of
imported breeds, the difficulties of obtaining, and the likely high cost of
cattle insurance - if any underwriter would be found - risks are considered
too high by most beef breeding ranchers, who in their majority are likely to
be absentee land owne!rs.
26.       Also, on the sales-marketing side uncertainties prevail.      Purchase
prices for heifers were projected to range between $60 (dairy farm) to $250
(other ranch types) while the breeding ranches were expected to sell their
female stock at $440/head.     There was no attention given to the marketing
aspects of improved stock by the appraisal.     Since there was no organization
for managing sales or initiating cattle auctions, owners of the breeding
ranches are left alone in finding buyers and bearing the full risk in a
national breeder cattle market where low prices prevail. Upgrading the
production potential of the national herd is a worthwhile undertaking although
the timing as anticipated by the appraisal may not have been the most appro-
priate. There is little to be gained in improving the milk/beef potential of
the animals as long as basic production parameters are still unsatisfactory,
such as inadequate feeding techniques, high calf mortality, insufficient
veterinary care, etc.     At the time of implementing the project all these
problems were widespread and are still quite apparent.    In the audit's view a
gradual upgrading of the national herd through an AI program would have
merits. Semen from high grade cattle could be imported at substantially lower
cost compared with pedigree cattle imports.
1/   $135,700 per farm.



- 6 -                           ATTACHMENT I
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
PANAMA FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 901-PAN)
BORROWER'S COMMENTS
PANAMA, NOVEMBER 17, 1981
ATTN SHIV S. KAPUR
DIRECTOR OPERATIONS
EVALUATION DEPT
I FIND THE PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT SATISFACTORY AND
HAVE NO COMMENTS TO MAKE
HUGO A. PEREIRA
DIRECTOR LIVESTOCK PROGRAM
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
2993 BANCONAL PG
248423 WORLDBANK



FORM NO. 788                               - 7 -
(1-74)
ATTACHMENT II
Translation of Incoming Cable
BANCONAL
Panama City, November 17, 1981
Mr. Shiv S. Kapur
Director, Operations 'Evaluation Department
Ref.: Drafb Audit Report on Execution
of First Livestock Development
Project (Loan 901-PAN)
We wish to make the following comments regarding the above-mentioned
report. The delay in the closing date was due to a variety of reasons:
(a)        Delay in t'he selection of the Director and specialist for the
Technical Unit, owing to our desire that the right choice be made and that it
should also be satisfactory to the World Bank.
(b)        As this was something new for us, certain reorganizations were necessary
which entailed a slow start with the subloans.
(c)        The investment plans for the subloans have three-year disbursement
periods, for control purposes.
Regarding point 3.15, concerning information on purchase of land and
steers for fattening, we believe we can provide you with the data. These will
be forwarded by the project director, together with technical comments.
It should be mentioned that considerable progress has been made with
the systems for accounting and monitoring payment of principal and interest and
delays in payments, since these systems are being improved and expanded through
the study utilizing a computerized monitoring system.
The point on which we completely disagree is 3.08 of the chapter on
Project Implementation.
We do not accept the statement that top management did not give



-8-
ATTACHMENT II
priority to execution of the program.
Any new department or program that is set up or grafted onto an
institutional structure, especially with new staff whose knowledge of the
banking aspects is scanty to begin with, has to pass through an initial period
of adjustment and adaptation. The present situation of the Technical Unit
demonstrates the priority and attention given to it, since it now has a staff
of 35 highly qualified individuals, with training, appropriate work instruments
and excellent logistic support.
Regarding the specific point of direct submission of reports by the
program director to the General Manager of the bank, we consider that this has
been fully complied with through the fluid communication mechanism that operates
in BNP between the project management, the Gerencia Ejecutiva de Desarrollo
Agropecuario and the General Manager, by which decisions are made on the basis of
mutual agreement between these three levels.
With regard to the project director's participation in other public
activities, we feel we should point out that, in the majority of instances,
this has been when such activities have been directly connected with the nature
of the project, so that they have in fact helped to enhance its execution.
As to the problems initially encountered in the appraisal of the
subloans and certain requirements of a legal nature, we consider that these were
overcome in the course of execution of the program.
We trust that the above comments will help toward the drafting of
the final version of the project evaluation report.
Regards,
Alfonso Guevara S.
Gerente Ejecutivo Desarrollo Agropecuario
* NB: The report being commented on was not provided; the terminology and titles
used in this translation therefore probably do not match those found in
other project documents. (Tr.)



- 9 -
CONFIDENTIAL
PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 901-PAN
COMPLETION REPORT
July 24, 1981



- 10 -
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Due to the commercial impact of the Canal, agriculture has histori-
cally been less important in the economy of Panama than in most Latin American
countries. In 1979 agriculture accounted for about 14% of GDP, employed about
30% of the economically active population and generated about 75% of the
nation's merchandise export earnings. In the same year, the livestock subsector
contributed 18% of the gross value of agricultural production. By far the
most important elements of the subsector are beef and dairy cattle which are
estimated to number about 1.4 million head. Beef exports, principally to the
U.S. market, totalled only 600 tons in 1979 and are still in their infancy.
There is a deficit of milk in Panama, and in 1979 the country imported dried
milk and butter oil valued at about US$5.0 million to supplement local pro-
duction.
1.02      Despite the relative smallness of the sector in recent years,
agriculture has received considerable attention from the authorities because:
(a) a serious problem of poverty still affects over 40% of the rural popula-
tion; and (b) with appropriate policies the sector could make a greater
contribution to output, the balance of payments and employment. Since 1968,
public policy in agriculture has aimed at improving the productivity and
living standards of peasant groups. Initially this was done by organizing
them into collective settlements or cooperatives, by providing them with land,
abundant credit and technical assistance, and by facilitating marketing of
their crops. However, the emphasis on land redistribution, which created
uncertainties among medium- and large-scale farmers regarding their stability
of tenure, as well as the imposition of price ceilings on food staples (includ-
ing beef and milk) and the imposition of beef export quotas, had a depressing
effect on production in the early 1970s. Since 1973 the emphasis has shifted
toward consolidation of settlement efforts on lands already acquired and the
expansion of production. Increases in support prices for basic grains and
other products have brought about a reversal in the declining trend in basic
grains and a return to self-sufficiency in rice. However, production increases
for beef and milk have lagged because: (a) real producer prices for beef and
milk have deteriorated due to a soft world beef market and maintenance of
price controls; and (b) no consistent policy regarding export of beef has been
developed.
1.03      Panama has good potential for expansion of its grass-fed beef
and dairy cattle industry and can productively absorb additional amounts of
long-term credit for this purpose, provided producer incentives are sustained
through appropriate price and marketing policies.



- 11 -
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Identification and Preparation
2.01      The project was the first Bank Group livestock operation in Panama.
It was identified and prepared by two FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (FAO/CP)
missions which visited Panama in October 1971 and February 1972 and worked
in conjunction with a team within the Planning Office of the Presidency.
FAO/CP proposed a project costing US$7.5 million to develop about 400
livestock farms, including a size mix of dairy, beef/dairy (dual-purpose)
and specialized beef enterprises.
Appraisal
2.02      A four-man (three Bank Staff and one consultant) mission visited
Panama for three weeks in June/July 1972 to appraise the project. No formal
invitation by Government to appraise the project is evident in the project
file. The appraisal mission proposed a project to finance about 570 cattle
enterprises producing ,iairy, beef/dairy and beef alone. No target group
in terms of farm size was explicitly defined, and it was clear that the
project would finance, not only land reform beneficiaries on "asentamientos," 1/
but also larger farmers as well. Final project costs were estimated at
US$13.5 million, of which the Bank loan would finance US$4.7 million. The
project was kept small due to the low level of development of agricultural
credit institutions and lack of experience with supervised credit in the
livestock sector.
2.03      Central issues during preparation and appraisal were (a) whether
or not private banks should be permitted to participate in the project as
credit channels; and (b) clarification of the respective roles in the project
of the National Bank of Panama (BNP) and the Institute of Economic Development
(IFE), which was reorganized as the Agricultural Development Bank (BDA) prior
to loan effectiveness. In the matter of private banks, it was decided to
provide for their participation, even though it was doubted that the 2 to 3%
spread offered would be attractive to them. With regard to the respective
roles of BNP and BDA, it was decided that BDA would handle smaller subloans
up to US$12,000 equivalent except in the case of asentamientos, where subloan
size was unrestricted. To support BDA's participation in the project,
Government undertook to contribute US$1.0 million equivalent over the project
period for use as counterpart funding.
Negotiations
2.04      Negotiations for the project were held in Washington from January 31
through February 2, 1973. The main issue was Government's insistence that
the Bank's proposal that price controls not be imposed on project-related
products without prior Bank approval be modified to require only prior consul-
tation with the Bank before new policies affecting livestock development were
implemented. The project was approved by the Board on May 1, 1973.
1/   Group enterprises operated by land reform beneficiaries.



- 12 -
Description
2.05      The project would provide credit and technical assistance to about
570 cattle ranchers of all types throughout the country. l/ Project funds
would be channeled to participating farmers by means of a fund to be estab-
lished in BNP. 2/   By means of rediscounting, BNP would channel finance to
sub-borrowers through credit institutions, including BDA and private banks.
2.06      Under the project, cattle ranchers of all types would receive
long-term subloans to finance land clearing, pasture establishment and
consolidation, fencing, watering points, ranch structures, farm machinery
and breeding cattle. In addition, short-term financing would be provided
to participating ranchers during the first years of ranch development to
cover incremental operating expenditures and the purchase of fattening
steers to utilize surplus feed during herd build-up. While the Bank loan
would be applied toward long-term subloans and technical services provided
under the project, short-term financing would be supplied entirely from
the resources of participating credit institutions. Development subloans
would be for up to 12 years, including up to four years' grace, at an
interest rate of at least 10% annually, while short-term financing would be
supplied on the participating credit institutions' regular terms.
2.07      Beneficiaries would receive assistance from technicians employed by
participating banks. A Management Unit (MU) would be established in BNP and
staffed with a Project Director, an agricultural economist, a dairy production
specialist, an administrative assistant, and livestock field technicians. The
MU would assist ranchers in preparing farm plans, and only ranch development
plans approved by or on the authority of the Project Director would be financed.
Participating banks would be responsible for assessing the creditworthiness of
applicant sub-borrowers and, except in the case of asentamientos (which would
borrow under Government guarantee), would bear the full credit risk. They
would also share the cost of livestock technicians attached to the MU to
supervise loans extended by them. The MU would be the first specialized
technical unit established in BNP to promote livestock development in an
organized way.
2.08      The project also included funds to finance (a) training of staff
of the MU; (b) consultants in tropical pastures and animal fertility; and
(c) preparation by consultants of a feasibility study for livestock
development on the Atlantic Coast.
1/   While the project was countrywide in scope, most sublending was expected
to take place in the western and central provinces of Chiriqui, Veraguas,
Herrera, Los Santos, and Cocle.
2/   Panama has no Central Bank.   BNP, which is a publicly owned commercial,
development, and mortgage bank, serves as the Government's fiscal agent.



- 13 -
2.09      The cost of the project, excluding incremental working capital,
was estimated at US$13.5 million. The proposed Bank loan of US$4.7 million
was to finance the foreign exchange component. BNP was the borrower, and
bore the foreign exchange risk, while Government was the guarantor. The
loan was for 16 years including five years' grace on principal, at 7.25%
per annum.
2.10      Goods required for the project would be procured through existing
commercial channels as there would be enough active competition to ensure
adequate supplies and satisfactory service, and bulk purchases of traditional
ICB items such as vehicles would be impractical.
2.11      The rate of return of the project to the economy was estimated at
15%, while the financial rates of return on incremental resources invested
at the ranch level would range between 15 andt 21%. Substantial other benefits
were expected, particularly, the introduction of new superior livestock
production techniques, a modest improvement in rural/urban income distribution,
development of the equivalent of about 630 new jobs, and increased revenues
paid to Government from increased taxes and fees. Also, the MU would develop
as a repository of expertise in livestock production, and that through their
participation in the project, private banks would increase their long-term
lending to the livestock sector.
Targets and Goals
2.12      The primary objectives of the project, through farm/ranch credits
and technical assistance, were to assist Panama to raise the level of output
of beef, milk and breeding cattle, and to generate new employment in the
livestock sector. Arncillary objectives were to develop a pool of local
expertise in livestock production and financing, increase the involvement
of locally based banks in providing long-term credits to the livestock
sector, and identify priority regions for livestock development in the
Atlantic Coastal zone.
2.13      In the project design there was little analysis of marketing systems
and/or policies affec:ting development of the livestock sector; however, the
Guarantee Agreement made particular reference to the importance of adequate
measures to encourage livestock development. 1/
Sector Significance
2.14      The project: was the first major attempt in Panama to supply a
range of livestock ranchers with technical assistance and appropriate credit
for on-ranch investments to enable adoption of modern production techniques.
1/   The Guarantor shall:   (i) establish and maintain such policies and adopt
such measures consistent therewith as shall from time to time be necessary
to provide for an adequate livestock development; and (ii) afford the
Bank a reasonab:Le opportunity to exchange views with the Guarantor on
any new policies or measures which may adversely affect livestock devel-
opment before their actual implementation.



- 14 -
As such, it was an important beginning to a longer term program designed to
assist Panama to realize its considerable but underdeveloped livestock poten-
tial. At full development, some 10 years after project initiation, it was
estimated that the project would result in the additional annual production of
about 8,300 tons of beef (carcass weight), 7,400 tons of milk, 8,500 breeding
heifers and 500 breeding bulls to contribute to higher per capita intake of
animal protein foods, greater exports of beef and import substitution of milk,
and the general upgrading of the national herd. Annual incremental production
from the project would be valued at about US$10 million (1972 prices), which
represented about 20% of the value of Panama's total livestock production at
the time of appraisal.



- 15 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      The loan was signed on June 8, 1973.   Loan effectiveness, which
had initially been targeted for September 6, 1973 was postponed by two
months until November 2, 1973. Delays in effectiveness arose because (a)
a corrected version of the Cabinet Council resolution approving the loan
had to be adopted; and (b) the borrower had neither established the MU nor
appointed the Project IDirector prior to the date initially set for effective-
ness.
3.02      As a condition of effectiveness, a Project Director acceptable to
the Bank was appointed on October 1, 1973. The candidate was a national
with ample experience i.n livestock development in Panama and strong Government
support, but with no experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. First
subloan approvals were made in 1974.
Disbursement
3.03      Delays in dis;bursement necessitated postponement of loan closing
twice, from December 31, 1978 projected at appraisal, to June 30, 1980, and
finally to March 31, 1981. Final disbursement of project funds was actually
accomplished on March ].9, 1981 (Table 1).
3.04      Apart from the initial two months' delay in loan effectiveness,
the main reasons for disbursement delays were (a) initial slowness in recruit-
ing suitable technical and administrative staff for the MU and in hiring
necessary consultants; (b) limited participation in the project by banks other
than BNP; and, finally, (c) the need for a three year period to implement
investment plans at the farm level which resulted in disbursement lags for
subloans approved in the late 1970s.
Delays in Recruitment of Staff and Consultants
3.05      For apparent lack of qualified applicants, appointment of a capable
administrative assistant, agricultural economist, and dairy production special-
ist was delayed until Late 1974. Meanwhile, subloan applications and disburse-
ment claims with the Bank were not handled efficiently.
3.06      The search for specialist consultants in pasture development and
animal fertility did not begin in earnest until early 1975, when project
management sought the assistance of the University of Florida to locate
suitable candidates. A pasture specialist was hired in June 1975, and about
that time, at the request of BNP, the Bank relaxed the covenant requiring
hiring of a specialist in animal fertility. The decision was taken on grounds
that it would be bette:r for the pasture specialist to codify knowledge on
nutritional problems before a specialist in animal fertility was employed,
and, moreover, the administrative capabilities of the MU were already fully
taxed by matters at hand.



- 16 -
Limited Participation by BDA
3.07      Besides the Bank, virtually the only source of long-term credit to
the livestock sector in recent years has been the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB). At the time of appraisal of Loan 901-PAN about US$1.0 million
remained undisbursed from IDB Loan 240SF, which was being on-lent through IFE
(later BDA) for agriculture/livestock and marketing infrastructure for small
farmers. Also, in 1974, IDB approved Loan 404SF to BDA for US$8.0 million for
on-lending to small- and medium-scale farmers and asentamientos for agriculture/
livestock development. Despite its initial enthusiasm for the Bank project,
BDA lost interest in the project in about 1976 because (a) it had gained access
to the alternative funds from IDB which it could both borrow and on-lend to
its clientele on more favorable terms than project funds 1/; and (b) the
Ministry of Agricultural Development (MIDA) failed to provide managers for
each of the asentamientos, as the Government had agreed to do under the project.
As a result, the Bank in 1975 instructed that no further asentamientos be
financed under the project. Moreover, as expected at the time of appraisal,
no private banks participated in the project because the 2% spread and 45%
rediscount provided under the project were insufficiently attractive to
persuade them to commit their resources to long-term agricultural lending in
the context of Panama's relatively unrestricted banking regime. Thus, BNP was
left as virtually the sole lending window for project funds.
3.08      In summary, it is clear that, while several of the problems
experienced initially by the MU were to be expected, the major responsibility
for the weak start with project implementation lay with the borrower, who
perhaps underestimated the difficulties inherent in introducing a new
livestock development unit into an established institution. Other aspects
which may have contributed to delays in startup were that (a) contrary to
the Loan Agreement, the Project Director did not report directly to
the General Manager of BNP: (b) the Project Director's time was over-
committed because of his other public activities, which kept him out of the
office much of the time; and (c) subloan appraisal and legalization
procedures were apparently insufficiently examined and streamlined prior
to the start of project execution. Administrative problems with project
implementation were largely overcome by 1975 due to joint efforts between
the Bank and the borrower to resolve them.
Aspects of On-lending and Composition of On-farm Investment
3.09      The project provided 340 subloans for ranch development throughout
the country. Tables 2, 3, 4, and 5, detail the distribution of subloans
by subloan size, farm area, and type of enterprise financed; selected compara-
tive statistics are shown below.
1/   IDB provided BDA with funds at 2% for on-lending to small- and medium-
scale farmers at 8% over 15 years with three years' grace.



- 17 -
Selected Statistics
On-lending Program
Total Loans (No.)
Actual                                340
Appraisal Estimate                    570
Average Loan Size (B '000)
Actual (current prices)                25.5
Actual (1972 constant prices)          14.2
Appraisal estimate                     16.6
Average Ranch Size (ha)
Actual                                142
Appraisal estimate                    209
3.10      The most significant departure from appraisal was the number of
farms assisted, which at 340 was 40% less than the number expected at appraisal.
This decrease is the consequence of the fixed volume of the lending program,
in nominal terms, and the substantial inflation which occurred between appraisal
and project execution. The purchasing power of investment funds was eroded by
about 50%, whereas expected average on-farm investments were reduced by only
15%. As Table 4 shows, notwithstanding the reduction in total number of farms
financed, the distribution of farm types financed was roughly as expected at
appraisal. However, the proportion of investment which was made in beef/dairy
or dairy enterprises, as opposed to beef breeding, increased markedly from that
expected at appraisal, reflecting the improvement in the milk to beef price
ratio which took place during project implementation.
3.11      The average size of all farms assisted (142 ha) was only two-thirds
the appraisal estimate (209 ha). However, a 15% increase in farm size from
the pre-development situation to 1980 partially offset this difference. With
regard to the different farm types involved, dual-purpose beef/dairy ranches
were larger than anticipated, breeding/fattening ranches were much smaller,
and specialized dairy farms were five times larger. Further differences arose
from the inclusion of: 82 small-scale Indian ranchers in the Soloy area, not
foreseen at appraisal., and the low number of asentamientos and purebred
breeding centers actually assisted (Table 5).
3.12      The average size of subloan was B 25,500 (US$25,500).     While this
was 53% higher in nominal terms than expected at appraisal, in real terms
it was 14% lower.
3.13      The composition by value of total on-ranch investments, as compared
with the appraisal estimate, is shown below:



- 18 -
Composition by Value of On-ranch Investment
% of Total Investment
Estimated at Appraisal      Actual
Pasture Development                            23                   16
Fencing                                         8                    8
Watering Facilities                             2                    5
Buildings                                       9                   13
Machinery and Equipment                         5                   10
Purchase of Livestock                          46                   48
Miscellaneous                                   7                    -
100                  100
3.14      The increase in investments in buildings and machinery and equipment
over appraisal estimates reflects the increased emphasis on investment in
dairy production which took place during implementation.
Physical Accomplishments
3.15      In physical units, project funds were responsible for the
establishment and consolidation of 20,400 ha of pasture, installation of
1,950 km of fencing, construction of 700 farm structures and the purchase
of 9,600 heifers and breeding cows and 500 bulls. No data are available
regarding the purchase of land or of steers for fattening with credits
provided from own resources of the participating banks.
Project Cost and Financing
3.16      Project cost and sources of financing are shown in Tables 6
and 7. Total project cost was 6% less than expected in nominal terms and
48% less in real terms, as shown below:
Project Cost
(Constant 1972 B '000)
Actual as %
Appraisal Estimate
Appraisal                     Entire       Per
Estimate a/     Actual b/    Program      Ranch
On-farm investments        11,865         6,046            51         85
Technical services          1,600           936            58        100
13,465         6,982           52          86
a/   570 subloans.
b/   340 subloans.



- 19 -
3.17      The main reason for the shortfall in real project cost was the
inflation that prevailed during the implementation period, coupled with
the decrease in the number of sub-borrowers, from 570 to 340. Of particular
interest is the fact that real investment per ranch was less than expected at
appraisal, reflecting no doubt the project's actual emphasis on farmers that
were smaller scale than anticipated. Another point of interest is that,
despite delays in implementation, technical. services cost only 58% of the
appraisal estimate in real terms, possibly reflecting (a) the substitution of
locally recruited technicians for the expatriate team envisaged at appraisal;
(b) the lower than expected level of managerial services provided to asenta-
mientos by MIDA; (c) decreasing salary levels in real terms; and (d) delays in
hiring staff.
3.18      Regarding sources of financing for the project, shares provided
by the Bank, participating banks, Government and beneficiaries were essentially
at expected levels. Is: should be noted that the figures shown do not include
complementary financing provided by participating banks for purchase of land,
refinancing of debts, or use as working capital.
Procurement
3.19      As expected, procurement through existing commercial channels for
project inputs was adequate. Shortages of improved milking cows were met by
imports by MIDA, and the MU imported improved pasture seed, which was also in
short supply.
Feasibility Study for the Atlantic Coast
3.20      The Loan Agreement called for the MU to contract consultants to
undertake a feasibility study for livestock development on the Atlantic
Coast. In December 1975 a contract for the study was awarded to a consultant
firm which issued its final report in 1977. The report identified Chagres
District in Colon Province as being most suited for livestock development.
However, in 1978 the decision was taken by Government not to act immediately
upon the findings of the study because to open up the Atlantic region, large
sums would have to be invested in access and penetration roads. On the
other hand, the more densely populated Pacific region would yield better
returns to similar investments. The main impact of the study, therefore,
was to increase knowledge of the livestock potential of the country.



- 20 -
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
4.01      This chapter is based on a basic data file kept by BNP's field
officers for about 75% of the farms assisted. This file ("control 3")
records pre-project data and, semiannually, data on physical progress and
certain financial indicators for the farm.
On-farm Impact
4.02      The main indicators of on-farm impact are contained in Table 8
and compared to appraisal estimates where available. The estimates result
from two detailed farm models, for dairy/beef farms and breeding/fattening
ranches (Annexes 1 and 2), representing about 65% of total on-farm investment,
and from less detailed calculations for the remaining farm types. Although the
project's impact generally follows the lines anticipated at appraisal, some
deviations are apparent.
4.03      Production Capacity.   Actual average cattle number per farm was only
half that estimated at appraisal because average farm size was smaller than
expected; stocking rates were about 10% lower than expected; Soloy Indians and
asentamientos did not have any cattle before development; and all 25 specialized
dairy farms were start-up operations with very low stock numbers.
4.04       Income Generating Capacity.   The pre-project income of the farms
assisted amounts to less than half that estimated at appraisal as a result
of the combined effect of the lower-than-expected production capacity, and
the sizable drop in real prices of the main products, beef and milk, that
occurred after 1972 (Table 9).
4.05      Productivity Coefficients.    Pre-development productivity coefficients
are basically in line with those expected at appraisal (Table 8), but stocking
rates on those farm types for which data are available (dairy/beef and breeding/
fattening units) were about 10% below appraisal expectations. Nevertheless,
the increases in productivity that did occur during project implementation
deserve further comment. Regarding calving rates, while the absolute levels
achieved indicate that there is much room for improvement in herd management,
considerable gains were made -- of the order of 20% on breeding/fattening
ranches and 40% on dairy/beef farms. Although these increases fall short of
the optimistic appraisal estimates (56% and 67%, respectively), they are quite
considerable. This must be at least partially attributable to the close
follow-up of the assisted farms by the project's field staff, particularly
in such aspects as animal health and supply of minerals and of feed supple-
ments. By contrast, stocking rates increased by only about 20%, a sizeable
shortfall if compared to the more than 100% increase expected at appraisal.
It would appear that the appraisal team underestimated the difficulties of
increasing stocking rates in most of the areas covered by the project,
considering the prevailing acid and infertile soils and long dry seasons, both
of which severely constrain the production potential. However, some of these
problems may be overcome with techniques that are now being field-tested by
BNP, with cooperation from the International Center for Tropical Agriculture



- 21 -
(CIAT) 1/ such as new forage grasses, fodder reserves, fertilization, and
irrigation. Finally, milk production per cow per day doubled, from 2 to 4
liters, thus exceeding the appraisal estimates. This also seems to reflect
increased emphasis on milk production as a result of better relative prices.
Aggregate Project Impact
4.06       The aggregate project impact 2/ shows a pattern which differs substan-
tially from appraisal estimate, as shown below:
Aggregate Production Increase Under the Project (m ton/year)
(1)          (2)
Appraisal                 Percentage
Estimate      Actual    = (2)/(1) x 100
Beef, dressed weight             8,300        1,200         15
Milk                             7,400        7,200         97
The very considerable shortfall in incremental beef production vis-a-vis
the appraisal estimate is the result of the combined effect of four factors,
all of which fell short of the values expected at appraisal: farm numbers,
farm size, stocking rates and calving rates. As a result of the first three
factors, total cattle on project-assisted farms (after development) may be
expected to be only 27% of the appraisal estimate.     The lower-than expected
increase in calving rates (Table 8 and para 4.05) leads to an aggregate
incremental beef production that is only 15% of the appraisal estimate.
Aggregate incremental milk production, on the other hand, is expected to come
close to the appraisal estimate, in spite of the fact that fewer farms than
expected were assisted. This results from higher improvements than expected
in milk production per cow on beef/dairy farms (Table 8) and the five-fold
increase in the size of specialized dairy farms, (Table 5) over appraisal
estimates.
Attribution
4.07       The amount of credit that should be given to the project for the
changes in output and productivity which occurred on project-assisted farms
during the 1974-80 period is difficult to quantify. However, given the rather
erratic behavior and slow growth rates of livestock production in Panama in
recent years, indications are strong that the increases in milk and beef
production on project farms (about 14% p.a. for beef on breeding/fattening
ranches and 36% p.a. for milk on dairy/beef farms) are attributable in large
measure to the project.
1/   CIAT is located in Cali, Colombia.    The Center is, inter alia, undertaking
a research program on production systems on acid, infertile soils in
tropical America and finds data generated from the livestock projects in
Panama of interest.
2/   At the national lEvel between 1971-1979 aggregate production of beef
increased from about 38,000 m tons to about 40,000 m tons, and for
milk from about 68,000 m tons to about 85,000 m tons.



- 22 -
Transfer of Assets
4.08      The main asset transferred to project farms was cattle -- about
10,800 head, 5,400 of which were cows or heifers for dairy or dairy/beef farms.
Had these cattle continued to produce at the project farms' pre-development
productivity level (28 kg of beef, dressed weight, per head and 570 liters of
milk per lactation), the result in annual production would be about 300 m ton
of beef, dressed weight, and 1,470 m ton of milk, i.e., about 13% and 20%,
respectively of the incremental output obtained on project farms.
Employment
4.09      According to BNP's data, permanent employment increased by about
one man-equivalent (ME) on dairy/beef farms,; 0.8 ME on breeding/fattening
ranches, and 4 ME on specialized dairy farms. Including employment generated
among Soloy Indians, on asentamientos and on purebred breeding centers, the
project contributed to the creation of about 420 permanent jobs in the primary
sector. Additional employment was generated on-farm during the investment
phase, as well as later on in the input supply and output marketing, processing,
and distributing sectors. However, quantifying these employment effects is
impossible within the scope of this report. Nevertheless, the well-known fact
that livestock projects are not the best performers in terms of employment
generation is illustrated by the relatively high average investment required
to support one job, equivalent to about US$40,000 in 1980 prices, ranging
from about US$20,000 for a Soloy Indian, to almost US$80,000 for a worker on a
breeding/fattening ranch.
Specific Issues Related to Beneficiary Subgroups
4.10       Specialized Dairy Farms.   No detailed model was worked out for
this farm type since (a) all 25 farms financed were startup operations,
with no pre-development information available; and (b) the small number
of farms assisted and the low proportion of farms for which reliable
post-development data are available did not allow generalized conclusions.
4.11       Soloy Indians.  This group of beneficiaries comprised 82 Indian
families in the Soloy Reservation, Chiriqui Province, with practically no
previous farming or ranching experience. There were numerous difficulties,
but the Soloy project seems to have reached its main goal -- to establish a
basis for self-sustained development of this social group through a market-
oriented productive activity. In fact, an analysis of the scarce data avail-
able indicates that existing assets about cover the outstanding principal and
accrued unpaid interest (see Table 10). Productivity and income generation
will improve as the former hunters and fishers are converted into farmers, but
the financial situation will continue to be tight for some time to come, since
the sale of male animals covers only interest payments and cash outlays.
However, stocking rates will eventually even out, thus enabling the borrowers
to sell surplus females, which will finally make possible the repayment of
principal.



- 23 -
4.12      Asentamientos.   Table 10 also shows the equity situation of the
three asentamientos which received project subloans from BDA. All three have
paid all operating expenses, including salaries for settlers, out of revenue
generated by the investments in livestock production. In the aggregate,
existing assets and funds extracted from the subprojects easily cover the
outstanding debt. Actually, one asentamiento (El Brigadier) has chosen to
cancel its loan with the proceeds from livestock sales, and re-start operations
debt-free with a much-reduced herd and the infrastructure financed by the
project. In Quebrada Grande, a similar conservative attitude toward indebted-
ness led to advance cancellation of 20% of the principal. In this case, the
value of assets is twice the amount of outstanding principal. Only in Playa
Leona is the situation serious, since funds from the sale of steers originally
purchased were apparently consumed. The infrastructure invested thus lay
idle until more finance was made available; hence, many years under close
supervision will be required before the beef/dairy unit established with the
second subloan will be financially viable. On balance, the asentamientos seem
to have fared reasonably well, given the lack of livestock experience and
management shortcomings of the sub-borrowers.
Summary
4.13       In summary, the project has had substantial technical impact at the
farm level, even among groups with very low levels of technology. However,
aggregate increases in production are likely to be less than initially expected
because (a) beneficiaries entered the project with fewer productive assets
than anticipated; (b) real prices of beef and milk have continued to deteriorate
in line with world trends; and (c) increases in stocking rates have remained
lower than anticipated, apparently because expectations were too high in the
light of environmental conditions.



- 24 -
V. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RETURNS
Financial Returns
5.01      The financial rates of return have been calculated for the beef/
dairy and breeding/fattening models (Annexes 1 and 2) and, are respectively
13% and 7%. These compare with appraisal estimates of 15% and 16%, respec-
tively. The main reasons for the shortfall of the rate of return for the
breeding/fattening enterprise are the poorer-than-expected productivity
performance (para 4.05) and the sharp drop in real prices for beef and milk
(Table 9). 1!
5.02      The rate of return to a farmer's equity (using constant prices)
is about 22% for the beef/dairy model and 15% for the breeding/fattening
rancher. These returns are higher than the rates of return on investment,
reflecting the advantage to the borrower of borrowing funds at real rates
of interest that are below the real rate of return on investment.
Economic Returns
5.03      Economic analysis of the project, detailed in Annex 3, indicates
that economic rates of return for various enterprise types financed range from
4% (Soloy) to 13% (beef/dairy model), and the overall rate of return of the
project is 8%. This deviation from the 15% return expected at appraisal is
explained by (a) the lower number of participating farms; (b) poorer than
expected increases in on-farm productivity (para 4.05); and (c) the sharp drop
in real prices of beef and milk experienced during implementation.
1/   Notwithstanding actual productivity performance, at appraisal prices the
rate of return of the models would be 22% and 18%, respectively, i.e.
slightly higher than appraisal estimates.



- 25 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH
Management Unit
6.01      In accordance with the Loan Agreement, a Management Unit (MU) was
established within BNP. The initial Project Director was hired on October 1,
1973 and field operations were swiftly begun. As described earlier (para 3.05),
hiring of key technical and administrative staff was delayed until late 1974
and project administration did not get off to a good start. In keeping with
expansion of the sublending program under follow-up Loan 1397-PAN, the total
number of offices reached four and the technical staff in the field numbered
17. 1/ In 1977, with the start-up of Loan 1397-PAN, the original Project
Director resigned and a new Project Director took over. This Director,
however, went on study leave in 1980 and his duties have been temporarily
assumed by the agricultural economist.
6.02      Once initial administrative problems were overcome, project
management proceeded well, and the quality of technical advice provided at
the farm level was good. The work of the pasture specialist was well
received, and the project has led to the introduction of new pasture
species 2/ and management techniques into Panama. Staff turnover does not
appear to have been a problem, and motivation of staff within the MU has
remained high.
6.03      Although the project provided funds for training staff of the
MU, this aspect appears to have been largely neglected by both the MU and the
Bank during implementation. However, in the context of the follow-up project,
a training program is being successfully implemented.
6.04      In summary, the project has given impetus to the formation and
growth of a capable te-hnical group within BNP to manage livestock lending.
Performance of Participating Banks
6.05      Only BNP and BDA, both public banks, participated in the project,
for reasons outlined in paragraph 3.07. As shown below, BNP was by far the
more active participant, principally because in December 1974, BDA received
a loan from IDB which enabled it to lend to its clientele on terms more
favorable than those provided under the project.
1/   Of which three are financed by MIDA.
2/   Brachiaria decumbens and brachiaria regurosa for grazing and "king grass"
for fodder and silage.



- 26 -
Distribution of Subloans by Participating Banks
Average Subloan Size
Number %           Amount %                   (B)
BNP                75                 89                     30,156
BDA                25                 11                     11,472
Repayment Performance
6.06      Only in mid-1980 did the MU begin to establish a manual system for
monitoring arrears in the subloan portfolio for which BNP is responsible.
To date, however, no data have been generated to provide an accurate picture
of the level or age of arrears of principal and interest in the subloan
portfolio. Absence of an accurate computerized arrears monitoring system is
perhaps the single greatest remaining weakness in execution of the project and
follow-up Loan 1397-PAN, and should be redressed in any future project.
6.07      Regarding subloans to asentamientos and the Soloy community through
BDA, repayment performance has been mixed. Two out of three asentamientos
have made advance repayments against their debts, and only in the case of
Playa Leona is debt repayment a major problem. In the case of Soloy, arrears
on interest payments total about 40%, and those on principal about 7% (paras
4.11 and 4.12).
Reporting and Auditing
6.08      Quarterly and annual reporting to the Bank by project management
was adequate. However, while the quality of audit reports for BNP improved
steadily as project implementation progressed, auditing requirements were
not fully complied with, since audited project accounts from BDA were never
consistently received by the Bank. The Bank must bear part of the blame for
limited compliance with auditing covenants since it was not until 1978 that
a financial analyst supervised the project and explained in depth Bank auditing
requirements.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.09      The issue of project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was addressed
only very generally in the Appraisal Report and Loan Agreement. Thus the MU
carried out the work on an empirical basis, with only limited assistance from
Bank staff during supervision and a subject-specific workshop which the Bank
organized in 1979. 1/
1/   Workshop on Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Projects held in
San Jose, Costa Rica, October, 1979.



- 27 -
6.10      Data for M&E were collected in two ways during project execution:
(a)  from a set of detailed farm accounts developed by the MU and
maintained on a continuous basis on 16 "model" farms; and
(b) from a "basic: data file" maintained and updated periodically for
each farm assisted by BNP.
6.11      While data from the detailed records were not statistically represen-
tative, they will continue to provide useful farm management information for
farmers and the MU alike. Links are now being established between the MU and
CIAT to improve the data collection system and to process the data by computer
at CIAT. In summary, the MU demonstrated good initiative in developing an M&E
system which is being modified to produce timely and useful information and
which should serve as a model for other livestock project units.
6.12      The lesson to be drawn regarding M&E is that useful systems can
be developed even in the context of small projects, but that borrowers
would benefit greatly i.f limited specialist assistance to design the data
collection and processing system were provided early in project execution.
Moreover, since practical knowledge of M&E is very scarce, much can be
learned by borrowers and Bank staff alike during short specialized courses
on the subject.



- 28 -
VII. SPECIAL ISSUES
Substitution by Project Funds
7.01      During project execution, the loan was the only long-term credit
line available to the beneficiaries reached for ranch development in Panama.
There is no evidence that the project substituted for other funds for
livestock investment.
Interest Rates
7.02      Under the loan, which was negotiated prior to the period of rapid
world inflation which has been experienced since 1973, the nominal interest
rate charged to sub-borrowers was a fixed 10%. Inflation in Panama during
the period of project execution (1974-81) has averaged about 9%, thus the
real rate of interest on subloans has been slightly positive to date.



- 29 -
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01      On balance, the performance of the Bank in relation to the project
during implementation was mixed. Relationships between Bank staff and
country officials were good, and the Bank exhibited flexibility regarding
changes in the project description, yet firmness with regard to hiring of
qualified project personnel. Nevertheless, certain aspects of appraisal and
supervision must be judged to have been insufficiently detailed:
(a) it appears that the attempt at appraisal to streamline procedures
related to subloan evaluation and legalization was inadequate,
thereby contributing to delays in implementation;
(b) auditing requirements were apparently neither clearly explained to
the Borrower until late in implementation nor enforced by the Bank,
and a financial analyst was never sent to advise on computation of
subloan arrears;
(c)  having the Project Director report directly to the General Manager
of BNP to enhance the stature of project administration, as required
by the Loan Agreement, was apparently never enforced;
(d) no training program was clearly defined for project technicians,
despite the inclusion of funds for training under the project;
and
(e)  despite the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement
(para 2.13) and repeated mention in supervision reports and Bank
economic reports that price controls and/or marketing arrangements
for beef and milk were problematic, it is not evident that the
analysis on which to base judgement of these sectoral issues was
either carried out or discussed at high level between the Bank and
Government.
8.02       In the context of the follow-up Second Livestock Project, which
became effective in 1977, project management has gained considerable stature
within BNP, and staff training, sublending and auditing procedures have
been much improved. A dialogue on sectoral issues is expected to be opened
in the context of preparation of a third-phase project.



- 30 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
9.01      Based on best available evidence, the project reached the target
group intended and significant increases in farm productivity were achieved.
However, the financial and economic impacts of the project at the producer
and national level were less than expected.
9.02      In terms of institutional impact, the major effects of the project
were to increase knowledge of important aspects of beef and dairy production
by a spectrum of producer types in Panama and to expose technicians to the
requirements of project analysis and credit provision to the livestock sector.
The project, and the repeater which followed (Loan 1397-PAN), successfully
established the MU as a capable and respected group in the eyes of producers,
the banks, and Government, and production technology at the farm level has
improved. Provision of appropriate funding to enable continuous lending
operations by the MU is important if staff morale is to be maintained and the
sunk costs invested in the MU are to yield good returns. In this regard,
discussions are under way between the Government and the Bank for an agricul-
ture credit project which would include additional funds for livestock develop-
ment, provided policy measures are taken to strengthen producer incentives in
the livestock sector. A mission from the FAO/CP visited Panama in March/April
1981 to initiate project preparation, and follow-up missions by the Bank and
FAO/CP are scheduled for FY82.
9.03      Poor participation by banks other than BNP was not surprising,
since (a) in the case of BDA, alternative funds were available on more
attractive terms than those from the Bank; and (b) the private banks operating
in an open financial system like that of Panama have ample opportunity to
invest their resources more profitably short term in commerce.
9.04      Based on the experience with this project and Loan 1397-PAN, the
following aspects emerge as important considerations for future project
development:
(a)  consistent price, marketing, and trade policies that are
perceived to provide adequate producer incentives are
necessary for growth of the livestock sector, and a
dialogue with Government on these aspects should be opened
prior to continued financing of the sector by the Bank;
(b)  if adequate technical assistance is provided, livestock
husbandry can be introduced as a productive activity
and source of employment even to traditional groups such
as those of Soloy, with positive economic returns;
(c)  because of the openness of the Panamanian banking system
and the lack of incentive for private banks to lend
long term in Panama, public banks are likely to remain
the channels of long-term credit for the livestock
sector in the foreseeable future;



- 31 -
(d) in the context of supervision, the Bank should pay more
attention to (i) better-applied auditing procedures;
(ii) help in developing appropriate systems for monitoring
subloan arrears; and (iii) establishment of project moni-
toring and evaluation systems. Given the general lack of
direct interest or knowledge on the part of borrowers in
these aspects of project administration, timely Bank action
is necessary to generate useful results;
(e) training programs and the role of external consultants
need to be worked out in considerable detail at
appraisal; otherwise implementation of these aspects
is likely to be both delayed and haphazard;
(f) particularly when dealing with small- and medium-scale
farmers, it is better to provide credit for whole-farm
development, rather than just for specific lines of
livestock, and subloan terms and conditions should be
flexible enough to permit this. This would permit
operators of mixed farms to improve their operations
more successfully;
(g) dual-purpose (beef/dairy) production is clearly the
most remunerative activity, both financially and
economically, which a wide range of small- and medium-
scale livestock producers operating under Panamainan
conditions can undertake, and development of this type
of enterprise should be the aim of future livestock
projects. In this regard, the focus of Loan 1397-PAN,
which aims to assist dairy and dual-purpose production,
is correct; and
(h) continued emphasis needs to be maintained on
developing means to raise farm carrying capacity
and improve herd productivity through improvements in
herd selection and management, including provision of
improved veterinary services.



FITST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Schedule of Loan Disbursements
Actual
Disbursements
as a Percentage
IBRD                Cumulative Disbursements (USS Million)         of Appraisal
Fiscal Year and Quarter       Appraisal Estimate               Actual         Estimate
FY74 (1973/74)
September 30                          0.1
December 31                           0.3
March 31                              0.5                         -
June 30                               0.8                        0.7              87
FY75 (1974/75)
September 30                          1.2                        0.7              58
December 31                           1.6                        0.7              44
March 31                              2.0                        0.7               35
June 30                               2.4                        0.7              29
FY76 (1975/76)
September 30                          2.8                        1.0              36
December 31                           3.2                        1.9               59
March 31                              3.5                        2.0               57
June 30                               3.8                        2.2              58
FY77 (1976/77)
September 30                          4.0                        2.4              60
December 31                           4.1                        2.7              66
March 31                              4.2                        3.0               71
June 30                               4.3                        3.2               74
FY78 (1977/78)
September 30                          4.4                        3.4              77
December 31                           4.5                        3.5              77
March 31                              4.6                        3.6               78
June 30                               4.7                        3.7              78
FY79 (1978/79)
September 30                          4.7                        3.9              83
December 31                           4.7                        3.9              83
March 31                              4.7                        4.0              85
June 30                               4.7                        4.1              87
FY80 (1979/80)
September 30                          4.7                        4.1              87
December 31                           4.7                        4.1              87
March 31                              4.7                        4.1              87
June 30                               4.7                        4.3              91
FY81 (1980/81)
September 30                          4.7                        4.3              91
December 31                           4.7                        4.3              91
March 191/                            4.7                        4.7             100
1/ Date of final disbursement.



- 33 -
TABLE 2
PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Distribution of Subloans by Size
Total Value of
Subloan Size                                        Subloans
(B)                 No.          %             (B '000)
Up to 15,000             157         46              1,552               18
15,001 -  30,000          95         28              2,009               23
30,001 -  50,000          47         14              1,776               20
50,001 -  75,000          20          6              1,097               13
75,001 - 100,000          19          5             1,834                21
100,000 +                  2          1                396                5
340        100              8,666              100
Source: BNP.
June 2, 1981



- 34 -
TABLE 3
PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Distributing Subloans by Farm Size
------No. (%)--------      --Amount Provided %--
Area of Farm (ha)      Actual      Appraisal      Actual      Appraisal
0 - 20                 12             8            4             6
21 - 399                831/          53           84            40
400 +                     5-1/         39           12            54
100           100          100           100
1/ Three asentamientos with 97 families are included in these figures.
Source: Appraisal Report and BNP.
June 2, 1981



- 35 -
TABLE 4
PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Distribution of Subloans by Type of Enterprise
Actual                           Appraisal
Total Value                       Total Value
No.              of Subloans      No.      X      of Subloans
(%)                               (M)
Breeding         158       46          35          220       39          54
Dairy             25        7          21)          50        8           6)
) 65                              ) 46
Beef/Dairy       147       43          44)         300       53          40)
340     100          100          570     100          100
Source: Appraisal Report and BNP.
June 2, 1981



PANAhA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Breakdown of Farms Assisted, by Farm Type, Area, and Subloan Size
-------------------------Actual Characteristics-------------------------
Average        Total         Average Subloan      Total Subloans      Appraisal Estimate
Farm Type                                    No.      Area, Ha       Area, Ha      Current B '000       Current B '000       No.       Area, Ha
Beef/Dairy                                   156         138          21,517             23.8                3,709           300          100
BreedingfFattening
BNP                                         72         245          17,640             26.1                1,882           200          400
BDA (Soloy Indians)                         82          55           4,490              8.4                  692            -            -
Subtotal Bireeding/Fattening             154         144          22,130             16.7                2,574           200          400
Specialired DaLry                             25          98           2,450             73.2                1,829            50           20
AsentamientoP
Beef/Dairy                                   1         600             600            100.0                  100            -            -
Preeding/Fatsening                           2         515           1,030             91.5                   183          10           400        CY
Subtotal Akentamientos                     3         543           1,630             94.3                  283           10           400
Purebred Preeding                              2         200             400            135.7                  271           10           400
Total                                    340         142          48,127             25.5                8,666          570           209
Source:  Appraisal Report and dBP.
June 2. 1981



PAUNA,
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJICT (WAIl 901-PAI)
Schedule of Pro1ect Costs and Subloan Disbursements
(current B '000)
----------------y-------------_---Years-------------------                                                               Actual            Appraisal
1974         1975         1976          1977         1978       1979         1980        1981       1982-1985         Total                Total
In Current Prices
6/
BNP  Disbursements                   1,469.2      2,376.9       1,328.1      1,259.6        700.9      394.2         940.1      197.0-         -            8,666.0               9,492
On-Farm IPvestments1/                1,836.6      2,971.1       1,660.1      1,574.5        876.1      492.8       1,175.1      246.2k'        -            10,832.5             11,865
Techni5pl Services Cost
BNP7-                               135.0        206.0        306.1         319.8        178.4      110.5         110.8       57.8        261.4           1,685.8)
MIDA3/                                5.7          9.7         21.0          22.5         1&.2       13.5          12.5        6.6         29.7             135.4) 1,888.0     1,600
BDA4/                                 2.2          3.8          4.1           4.4          4.7        5.3           6.2        6.5         29.5              66.7)
Totnl Project Cost       L      &2Z2&      139,0,6       j,22L,3       j12ZL          063, ,      221        1 32|2~      !!!          L22     2- 1
-J
In Constant 1972 Balboas5/
On-Farm Inivestments                 1,275.8      1,809.8        938.1         830.0        438.2      216.2         446.9       90.5          -             6,045.5             11,865
Technical Services Cost                 99.3         133.7        187.1        182.8         98.7       56.7          49.3       25.7        102.7             936.0               1,600
Tottil Project Cost               .    1                   L2=          O1               2 ,9     .32 293                116.,                        69
1257 of 8N1' subloan disbursements.
rotal cost of Technical Unit 1974-77; 607 of sueb cost for 1978 (start of 2nd Project); 507 and 407. for 1979 and 1980 respectively.
1981-85: 1 55.000 p.a. in constant 1980 prices (57, inflation p.a. assumed).
Salaries ot technical staff (I man-year in 1974, 1.5 man-year in 1975, 3 man-years 1976-77.) For 1978-85, prorating for First Project
as for BNPMa technical services cost (see FN2).
tissiont estimate (Soloy only).
)eflat,-d b3 Index of Wholesale Prices.
first quarter only; deflated by December 1980 Index of N.P. (latest figure available).
rce: Appri.isal Report and BNP.
e 2. 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Project Financing in Current Prices
(B '000)
Participating       Government
Category                        IBRD            Banks             (MIDA)        Beneficiaries         Total
Appraisal Estimates
Livestock developmentI/           4,100            5,300               100              2,400            11,900
(Distribution)                   (34X)           (45%)               (1X)             (20%)            (100)
Technical services                  600              900               100                -               1,600
(Distribution)                   (38%)           (56Z)               (6%)                              (100%)
Total                           4,700            6,200               200              2,400            13,500
(Distribution)                   (35%)           (46%)               (1%)             (18%)            (100%)
Actual
Livestock developmentl/           3,900            4,766                -               2,167            10,833
(Distribution)                   (36Z)           (44%)                                (20%)            (100%)
Technical services                  800              953               135                -               1,888
(Distribution)                   (42%)           (51%)               (7Z)              _               (100%)
Total                           4,700            5,719               135              2,167            12,721
(Distribution)                   (37%)           (45%)               (1%)             (17%)            (100%)
1/ Figures do not include short-term loans for working capital nor for purchase of land
or refinancing.
Source: Appraisal Report and BNP
June 2, 1981



Beef/Dairy Farm            Breeding/Fattening Farm-/             All Farms
Estimated                      Estimated                       Estimated
at Appraisal      Actual       at Appraisal      Actual        at Appraisal      Actual
Number of Farms                                                    300            156             200             72              570            340
Indicators of Production Capacity
Grazing area, before development, ha                             100           138              400            245              209           142
Grazing area, after development, ha                              100            162             400            296              209           163
Cattle, before development, head                                  94           114              316            169              173            88
Cattle, after development, head                                  209           165              619            285              355           159
Farm Income (1972 B)
Gross income, before development                               4,000         3,300            9,600          2,500           6,600          3,000
Gross income, after development                               12,500         6,400           40,900          6,100          24,500         10,100
Net income, before development                                 2,200         1,500            4,800            900            3,300         1,300
Net income, after development                                  6,800         3,600           15,700          3,400           10,900         3,100
Investments (1972 B)
Average per farm                                              16,000        16,000           25,500         17,700          20,800         17,800
Percentage of total                                               40            43               43             22              100           100
Productivity Coefficients
Effective zalving rate, before development, X                     45            48               45             41                         n.a.
Effective zalving rate, after development, x                      75            66               70             50                         n.a.
Stocking rite, before development, AU/ha                           0.74          0.65             0.60           0.56                      n.a.
Stocking rite, after development, AU/ha                            1.50          0.77             1.30           0.75                      n.a.
Milk/cow day, before development, liter                            2.5            2.0             -              -                         n.a.
Milk/cow day, after development, liter                             4.0           4.0              -                                        n.a.
Rates of Return-
A. At Actual Pr/ces-/
Financial                                                      15            13               16              7                         n.a.
Economi,:                                                      15            13               16              6                         n.a.
To farm,?r's equity                                        n.a.              22            n.e.              10                         n.a.
B. At Appraisal Prices-
4'
Financi.al/Economic-                                           15            22               16             18                         n.a.
1/ CalculatedI in constant 1980 prices.
2/ Actual prices for beef and milk, 1974-1980; projected prices 1981 onwards.
3/ Beef B. 0.50 per kg live weight, industrial milk B. 0.10 per liter (1972 prices).
4/ Financial and economic prices are assumed equal in the appraisal report.
5/ Rancnes assisted by BNP only, i.e. excluding asentamientos and Soloy Indians.
Source: Mission estimates
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Evolution of Index of Key Farm and Border Prices, in Constant Pricesl/, 1972-1980 (1972 = 100)
 ___________________----------Years--------------
1972       1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980
A. Farm Prices
Steers, live weight                  100       74         69          64        69         69         72         70
Milk, Grade A                        100       73         64          59        63         60         53         53
Milk, industrial2!                   100       97         91          93        87         83         72         72
B. Border Prices
Beef, boneless                       100       75         60          55        56         65         88         71
Dried milk, whole                    100       96        111         125       118        114        120        102
Dried milk, non-fat                  100       82         88          56        34         41         46         45
1/ Deflated by the Index of Wholesale Prices for Panama.
2/ Although the term seems to imply milk used for processing, much of this milk is pasteurized
for fluid consumption.
Source: Mission
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Equity Situation of Soloy Indian Project and Asentamientos, to 12-31, 1980, in B '000
Soloy       ------------------------Asentamientos------------------------
Playa Leona       Quebrada Grande      El Brigadier       Total
Initial Investment
Financed by BDA                                        692.2         125.5               100.0               57.0           282.5
Correction for settlers' wages-                       (173.1)        (31.4)              (25.0)             (11.4)          (67.8)
Total Cash Investment                             692.2          125.5               100.0               57.0           282.5
(1)  Operating Cost and Debt Service, 1974-80                 190.0          40.0                70.0               80.0           190.0
(2)  Sales, 1974-80-/                                         205.03-       100.0-/              70.0               80.0           250.0
(3)  Outstanding Debt (including interest), 1980              899.9         154.1                70.8                -             224.9
Assets
Cattle                                                660.0           34.4               116.3               22.0           172.7
Other                                                  200.0          30.0                35.0               20.0            85.0
(4)  Total Assets                                             860.0          64.4               151.3               42.0           257.7
(5)  Return to Equity - (4) + (2) - (1) - (3)                  24.9         (29.7)               80.5               42.0            92.8
1/ The settlers' contribution is offset by tnis line, since the borrowers' contribution consisted exclusively of items in kind
(mainly labor), and practically all labor hired for the investment phase was contracted among the beneficiaries at prevailing
wage rates, i.e. above tne opportunity cost of labor (particularly for the Soloy Indians, whose main activities are hunting
and fishing).
2/ Generally equal to line (1), since sales used to be made to cover expenses.
3/ Includes B. 15,000 for on-farm consumption of animals.
4/ Includes B. 60,000, proceeds of tne sale of steers, diverted from the first tranche of the subloan.
Source: BNP and BDA
June 2, 1981



- 42 -
PANAMA
VIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Beef/Dairy Ranch, Herd Development Projection
Actual       Interpolated        Actual       --Projected.-----__-_-_-
-------------------------------------Years.----------------------------______
1975        1976     1977        1978        1979      1980       1981       1982 +
------------------------------Development Year -------------------------------
B.D.         1         2          3           4          5         6         7_15
Stock Numbers (end of year)
Bulls                                      2           3         3          3           3          3         3          3
cows                                      34          48        58         58          60         60        60         60
Reifers 3y +                               4           4         2          2           2          2          2         2
Heifers 2-3y                              12          11        11          18         13         13        13         13
Reifers 1-2y                              13          11        19          19         19         18        19         19
Calves, female                            12          21        25         25          19         20        20         20
Calves, male                              12          21        24         24          19         20        20         20
Steers 1-2y                               12          11        16         16          19         18        19         19
Steers 2y +                               13          10         9          9           9          9         9          9
Total                                  114         140       167        174         163        163       165        165
A.U.                                    90          98      118         125         125       123        125        125
Grazing Area (ha)                      138         146       154        162         162       162        162        162
Deaths
Cows                                       1           2         2          3           3          2         2          2
Heifers 1-2y                               1           1         -           1          1          1          1         1
Steers 1-2y                                -           -         -          -           -          1         1          1
Calves                                     2           2         3          3           3          2         2          2
Total                                    4           5         5          7           7          6         6          6
Purchases
Bulls                                      0.5         1         -           1          -          1          -         0.5
Cows                                       -          14         5                      -               -               -
Heifers                                    2           2         -          -           -          -          -         -
Calves                                     -           I         -          -           -          -         -          -
Steers                                     2           2         2          2           2          2         2          2
Total                                    4.5        20         7          3           2          3         2          2.5
Sales
Cull bulls                                 0.5         -         -          1           -          1         -          0.5
Cull covs                                  7          12         5          8          13         11        11         11
Heifers 2-3y                               4           -         1                      -          -         -          -
Heifers 1-2y                               -           I         -          -           5          5         4          5
Calves                                     -           -         4         11           8         -          -          -
Steers 1-2y                                -           2         2          7           7         9          8          9
Steers 2y +                               13          15        12         11          11         11        11         11
Total                                   24.5        30        24         38          44        37         34         36.5
Technical Coefficients
Stocking Rate (A.U./ha)                    0.65        0.67      0.77       0.77        0.77      0.76       0.77       0.77
Calving Rate (%)                          48          63        71         69          66        66         66         66
Milk per cow, day (1)                      2.0         2.0       2.8        3.4         3.8       4.0        4.0        4.0
Length of lactation (days)               194         194       197        200         200       200        200        200
Source: Mission estimates,
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Beef/Dairy Ranch, Land Use Data and Projections (Ha)
Actual      --Estimated--      Actual      Projected
----------------------Years--------------------
1975      1976      1977       1978        1979 +
--------------Development Year-----------------
B.D.         1        2           3        4-15
Natural pastures                             15        15        14         14         14
Artificial pastures                          99       106       111        103        103
Improved artificial pastures                  3         8        16         38         38
Silage crops (pasto de corte)                 1         2        3           4          4
Shrubland, etc.                              20        15        10          3          3
Total                                   138       146      154         162        162
Source:  Mission estimates.                                                                        X X
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Beef/DairEy Ranch. On-Farm Cattle and Milk Prices, in Balboas
------------------------------------Years---------------__________________
1972         1974      1975       1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
(Appraisal)
A. Current Prices
Cattle
Heifers (nead)                        250          300       300       330        340       360       420       450
Bulls (head)                          650          700       700       750       800        800       800       900
Cull cows (kg l.w.)                     0.38         0.40      0.43      0.43      0.50       0.53      0.63      0.70
Other cattle (kg l.v.)                  0.48         0.51      0.54      0.54      0.63       0.66      0.79      0.88
Milk
Industrial (1)                          0.10         0.14      0.15      0.165     0.165      0.165     0.165     0.19
Grade A (1)                             0.20         0.21      0.21      0.21      0.24       0.24      0.24      0.28
B.  Constant 1972 BalboasA/
Cattle
Heifers (head)                        250          208       183       186        179       180       184       171
Bulls (head)                          650          486       426       424       422        400       351       342
Cull cows (kg l.v.)                     0.38         0.28      0.26      0.24      0.26       0.27      0.28      0.27
Other cattle (kg l.w.)                  0.48         0.35      0.33      0.31      0.33       0.33      0.35      0.33
Milk
Industrial (1)                          0.10         0.10      0.09      0.09      0.09      0.08       0.07      0.07
Grade A (1)                             0.20         0.15      0.13      0.12      0.13       0.12      0.11      0.11   |M
' Deflator: Index of wholesale prices.
Source: Mission estimates.
Jtne 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Beef/Dairy Ranch
Sales and Operating Cost Prolections, in current Balboas
---------------------------------------  -------Years----------------------------------------
1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1981         1982-1990
------------------------------------------Development Year-----------------------------------
B.D.          1            2           3           4           5           6              7-15
Physical Volime of Sales
Beef, kg l.w.-                       7,680       10,080      7,180       10,070       13,550      12,270      11,710         12,270
Milk, (1)                            9,310       13,190     27,030       32,830       28,880      32,000      32,000         32,000
Sales
Heifers                                800          300        340           -         2,100       2,250       1,800          2,250
Other cattle-                        3,280        4,890      4,130         5,810       .8,850      8,390       8,610         8,400
Subtotal cattle                  4,080        5,190      4,470        5,810       10,950      10,640      10,410        10,650                a
Milk                                 1.400        2.180      4.460         5,420       4,770       6,080       6,080          6,080
(1) Total Sales                      5,480        7,370      8,930       11,230       15,720      16,720      16,490        16,730
Operating Costs
Basic      b/                        3,000        3,240      3,470        3,640        4,200       4,800       4,800         4,800
Incrementalb                           -            880      1,640        2,070        2.300             2      ,470         2470
(2)  Total Operating Costs           3,000        4,120      5,110        5,710       6,500        7,270       7,270         7,270
(3) Net Operating Income
= (1) - (2)                  2,480        3,250      3,820        5,520       9,220        9,450       9,220         9,460
a x
a/ Net of purchases for fattening and bull replacement.
b/ Labor, pasture maintenance, animal healtth, marketing, feedatuffs; maintenance of fences, farm structures, and equipment.
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



122   L1YO!      D3U8tIL8 W  nOJKCt (143098 POI-F
---1. --t hco--------------                   --t '' tcV_....ftOogctd cmta-1.l
----  ----    .    .       ........ -------              - --------- - --------------- ------------------------ - -   --    -- l_______.__________________
1975      197          97        178         19"        190        1981        1982      1983        1994       19"8        986        91U7      IOU         i98        3990
_------- -_______ --------------------..-------. ---*-----------*-*--*-------------Dl"o"tTo    ..................... ;. ............................ s------------ --- _------ ---- ------_.--__--___
9.D.         1          2                                 5          6           7         a           9         I0         11          12         12          14         15
S0.-                                       3,400     7,370       3.930      11.230      15.720     16.720     16.490      16.730    16.730      16,730     16.730     16.730      16,730     16.7S0      16,730     16, 73
-   o1.t Io_                                 -      14.000       2700        7100 _J    .-                                                        ___
(1) Totl ltflow                            ,480     21,370      11,630      16,310      15,720     16,720     16,490      36,730    16.720 1u,7n0          16.730     16,720     16.730      16.710     16,710      16.710
Colb &0tflo
oporatlos ...t.                            2.000     4,120       2.110        2,710      6,500      7,270      7,270       7.270     7.270       1,270      7.270      7.370       7,270      7.270       7.370      7.270
te-we tnt                                    -      17.00        Wn          S.9 _O                                                                          _4
10)  Sbot.1                                3.000    21.630      e.480       14.610      6.300       7,270      7,270       7.210     1.270      7,270      7,270      7,270       7.37n      7,70        7.270       7.270
(3)  Sau-... 3f. oc   6   "rotmo.
- (3) - 42)                        2.480       (250)     3,150        2,790      8,220       9,40       9.220      9.440      9.440      9,660      9.460       9,40       9.460      9,4         9,460      9,40
44)  61o. bfo.. 8.1t *oobte
to oonoot pntb.-                     2,480      (210)      1,150       3,790      9.230       9.450      9.680     10.420     10.920     11,500     12.070      12,680     15,310     13,980      14,640     35.4to
(S)  0bt .".ft.                              -        J00        1  30       2.030      2.380       J .9                  *970       4270      ..3A 0      A.M 3tO       0        3.J O       I.i0         tO          _
164) llol. oft., d.bt sotoe.
(4) . (3)                           2.480       (920)     1,620        1.760      6.840      5.220       53,30      5.60      6.280       7.120      7,990        ,oo       9,930     12.340      13700      15.410
(7)  .  6) 11. coot..t 1972    t..         2 3.40a    (8a8)     1,400 1o,40             4,930       3.320       .200      3.090      53.50      5,62       3.870      4,100       4,220      S,240 e     5460      39.5300k
16)  :ot.. e                                                                                                                                                                                                       16,811o  l     _1
-oo01ot 1997   p.I...                -       (3.310)    (1,090)      (1,040)     2.450         840        720        610        870      1.14       3,20       1,620       1,o40      2,7 0       2,890      U  S.
of nl       o,-  to P-,. t_tt      - 2.n
V o.os1og 51 tlottoo fto- 1980 ooootda.
if Oftltd b7 t.. 1od.. ol o1ol...1. prl...
SI lee.d.l  O  13,480 of I ..totl ho d volos.
Soar,.:  Pitooln .liooto..
.fo 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Beef/Dairy Ranch
Financial Rate of Return Calculations
(Balboas)
---------__---------------------------------In Currenc Prices- ----------------------------------_--___-
Without Project                     With Project                Incremental                                       Incremental
(1)                                  (2)      Net up. lncome                                    nieL Beuefii
Net Op.                              Net Op.     with Project                     Incremental      in Constant-
Year          Sales      Op. Cost     Income       Sales     Op. Cost     Income        (2) - (1)        Investment     Net Benefit      1980 prices
B.D.          5,480       3,000        2,480       5,480      3,000         2,480            -                -              -
1           5,700       3,240        2,460       7,370      4,120        3,250             790          (17,500)       (16,710)         (24,810)
2           6,300       3,470        2,830       8,930      5,110        3,820             990          ( 3,370)       ( 2,380)         ( 3,300)
3           6,570      3,640         2,930      11,230      5,710        5,520           2,590          ( 8,900)       ( 6,310)         ( 8,194)
4           7,580       4,200        3,380      15,720      6,500        9,220           5,840                           5,840            6,636
5 (19110)   8,240      4,800         3,440      16,720      7,270        9,450          6,010                            6,010            6,010
6           8,240      4,800         3,440      16,490      7,270        9,220           5,780                           5,780            5,780
7-14          8,240      4,800         3,440      16,730      7,270        9,460          6,020                            6,020            6,020
15-          8,240      4,800         3,440      16,730      7,270        9,460          27,610                          27,610           27,610
Financial Rate of Return in 1980-constant prices - 13%
i/ Includes incremental herd value of B 21,590.
b! Constant prices assumed from 1980 onward.
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Breeding/Fattening Rancb, Herd Develop-ent Projection
Actual          Interpolated           Actual         ------------Projected------------
year                          1975          1378      T977           1978          1979     1980      1981     1982 +
Development Year                    B.D.            1          2             3             4        5         6        7
Stock Numbers (end of year)
Bulls                                            3            5         5              5             5        5         5        5
Cows                                            57          88         93             96           97        97       97        97
Heifers 3y +                                     4           4          2              2             2        6         2        2
Heifers 2-3y                                    20           17        15             30            29       25       29        29
Heifers 1-2y                                    18           17        31             35            26       30       30        30
Calves. female                                  18          33         37             28           32        32       32        32
Calves, male                                    15          31         30             27           32        32       32        32
Steers, 1-2y                                    20          14         29             28           25        30       30        30
Steers, 2y +                                    14          19         25             25           26        23       28        28
Total                                        169         228        267            276          274       280      285       285
AU Units                                     136         164        200           221           210       216      221       221
Grazing Area (ha)                            245         261        277            296          296       296      296       296
Deaths
Covs                                             2           2          3              3            3         3        3         3
Heifers                                          2            2         1              1             2        2         2        2
Steers                                           1           1          1              2            2         2        2         2
Calves                                           2           2          4              4            4         4        4         4
Total                                          7           7          9             10           11        11       11        11
Purchases
Bulls                                             .75        2          1              1             1        1         1        1
Cows                                             -           17         5              -             -        -         -        -
Heifers                                          2          12          5              -             -        -         -        -
Calves                                           -           7          -              -            -         -
Steers                                           7           -         12                                     -
Total                                          9.75       38         23              1            1         1         1        1
Sales
Cull bulls                                        .75        -          I              1             1        1         1        1
Cull cows                                       15          15         21              9            25       20       20        20
Heifers 2-3y                                     1           -          -              -            -         1         5        5
Heifers 1-2y                                     -                      1                            5        -        -         -
Calves
Steers 1-2y                                      5           -          -              3            -
Steers 2y +                                     14          14         19             24           25        26       23        28
"                                     Y      37 56q           4        849 5
Technical Coefficients
Stocking Rate (AU/ba)                             .56         .63        .72            .75           .71      .73       .75       75
Calving Rate (1)                                41          52         56             50           50        50       50        50
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



w 49 -
ANNEX 2
PANAMA                                Table 2
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Breeding/Fattening Ranch, Land Use Data and Proiectiona (Hectares)
Actual    Estimated Actual     Actual    Projected
1975       1976      1977      1978       1979 +
Development year                       B.D.          1        2         3         4-15
Natural pastures                         37          35       33        32          32
Artificial pastures                     178         193      208       224         224
Improved artificial pastures              1           4        7        11         11
Soilage crops (pasto de corte)            0.4         0.4      0.4       0.4        0.4
Shrubland, etc.                          50          50       50        50         50
Total                               266        282       298       317        317



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Breeding/Fattening Ranch. On-farm Cattle Prices, in Current and Constant 1972 Balboas
-------------------------------------Years----------------------------------
1972        1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979      1980
(Appraisal)
A. Current Prices
Heifers (head)                      200         220       250       240       230       230        230       250
Bulls (head)                        800         850       850       800       800       850        850       950
Cull cows (kg l.v.)                   0.38        0.40      0.43      0.43      0.50      0.53       0.b3      0.70
Other cattle (kg l.v.)                0.48        0.51      0.54      0.54      0.63      0.66      0.79       0.88
a/
B.  Constant 1972 Prices-
Heifers                             200         153       152       136       121       115        101        95
Bulls                               800         590       518       452       422       425        373       361
Cull cows                             0.38        0.28      0.26      0.24      0.26      0.27      0.28       0.27
Other cattle                          0.48        0.35      0.33      0.31      0.33      0.33      0.35       0.33        C5
# Deflated by the index of wholesate prices.



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Sales and Operating Costs, in Current Balboas
---------------------------------Calendar Year-------------------------------------
1975      1976       1977        1978       1979       1980        1981     1982-1990
-------------------------------Development Year--______________
BD..        L           23. I. 
Physicil Volume of Sales
Beef, kg l..-a                        9,440     10,400      11,680     13,800     20,425      18,165     18,150     20,275
Sales (B)
Heifers                                 250        -           230        -        1,150         250      1,250      1,250
Other cattle-                         3.874      5.088       5.817      8,182     13,274      13,952     12,830     14.700
(1)  Total sales                      4,124      5,088      6,047       8,182     14,424     14,202      14,080     15,950
Operating Cost
Basic      b/                         2,700      2,900       3,100      3,300      3,800       4,300      4,300      4,300
Incremental-                            -          970       1,800      2,300      2,500       2,700      2,700      2,700
(2)  Total Operating Cost             2,700      3,870      4,900       5,600      6,300      7,000       7,000      7,000
(3) Net Operating Income
= (1) - (2)                    1,424      1,218       1,147      2,582      8,124      7,202       7,080      8,950
a/ Net of purchases for fattening and bull replacement.
bl Labcr, pasture maintenance, animal health, marketing; maintenance of fences, farm structures and equipment.                       ox
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



1238!L1VU0~ UYKWIT I3NC! 5068901-vfim
arosdain/Wattealattma Ic
04   flow Projections, Is   3.Iba"as
..........-                         C     a   l    e    a    d     a   r    y     a -t---- --------.----- -- ---------------------------Cal nor T ,  _________   - - - -  ______
197         1t7       1977        ton       1979       1980        19b1       1982        1985       1964        1965       1a          167         196        19619       19
---------------Developnot Teat-------        ..---- - .------ - - ----------.------.---------
3.6.b        1         2                     4 I        5           6          7           8          9           10         11          12          15         14          15
Ceag let 1f
Sales                                       4,124      5.068      6047       8.182      14.424     14,202     14,080      15.950      15,950     15.950      15.950     15,950      15.950     15.950      15.950     15,950
D"vewfoes   to                                        ) 15400     L,000      7.700     _                                                                                                                                               L-n ----_ 
(1)  tet l luow                             4.124     20.488      9,047     15,82       14.424     14,202     14,060      15,950     15,950      15.950     15.950      15.950      15,950     15.950      15,950     15,950
Casb Outflow
Operating costs                             2,700      3,870      4,900      5,600       6,300      7,000       7,000      7,030       7.000      7,000       7,000      7,000       7,000      7.000       7,000      7,000
l-vesraent                                            19.300      3.800      9600                     -                                             -           -          -                 -
(2) Sutt&tsl                               2,700      25,170     8,700      15,200      0,500       7,000      7,000       7.000      7.000       7.000      7.000       7,000      7,000       7,000      7.00        7COO
(3)  lalsice befote  d  le     n semice
- (1) - (2)                         1,424      (2.682)      3147        682      8,124       7.202      7,080      8,950       8.950      8,950       8,950      6,950       9,950      8,950       8,950       *.950
(4)  - (11 la mrzest bIbseaW               1,424     (2.682)       547        682      8.124       7.202      7.410       9.870     10.360      10,680     11,420      11.990     12.590      13.220     13,680      14,580
5)   total debt service                       -          770      1.690      2.225       2,610      4,555      4,718       5,451      5,124       4,798      4,472       4.146      J.818       1,566      1.057         -
(6)   laiaica after dWbt service
- (4) - (5)                         1,424      (3,452)   (1.343)     (1.543)     5,514       2,667      2,712       4,419      5,236      6,082       6.948       7,1844      ,772      11,654     12.623      14,580
(7) - (6) in coatant 1975 pricead           1,424     (5,196)   (1,158)     (1,265)     1,967       1,688      1,634       2,559      2,861       5,168      1.457       3,700      3.951       5,001      5,234       5.673
(8)  lncremental b    o)aaca Is coastit
975 prices-                           -       (4,620)    (2.562)     (2,689)     2,145        264         210      1,115       1.437      1,74       2,031       2,270      2,527       1,577      3,810      16.,494-
late af   .t.ra to 7amer' _   uity    I n
*I CA.   1i,tlr "ad outflow In curreat   elboas tfo  1975-1960; fre  1961      z   is catut If6 2alboa.
/I * S1Ic6 S1 istlatino   Pa. tree 1980 Ords.
fI Detlatsr    lode. af bolsele prices.
4/ lacladla3 9 10.823 of inermental btd value.
Source:  lisestoa  stiates.
Jam  2. li1



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Financial Rate of Return Calculations
(Balboas)
---------------------------------------In Current Pricesa/----------------________________________________
Without Project                      With Project                 Incremental                                       Incremental
(1)                                 (2)       Net Op. Income                                     Net Benefit
Net Op.                             Net Op.      with Project                      Incremental     in Constant-
Year          Sales     Op. 5Ct       income       Sales     Op. Cost     Income        (2) - (1)        Investment     Net Benefit      1980 prices
B.D.          4,124       2,700        1,424       4,124      2,700        1,424             -                -               -               -
1           4,171      2,910         1,261       5,088      3,870        1,218            ( 43)         (19,300)        (19,343)        (28,445)
2           5,008      3,120         1,888       6,047      4,900        1,147            (741)         ( 3,800)        ( 4,541)        ( 6,220)
3           5,278      3,290         1,988       8,182      5,600        2,582             594          ( 9,600)        ( 9,006)        (11,696)
4           6,468       3,750        2,718      14,424      6,300        8,124           5,406                            5,406           6,143              u
5 (1980)    7,200      4,320         2,880      14,202      7,000        7,202           4,322                           4,322            4,332
6           7,200      4,320         2,880      14,080      7,000        7,080           4,200                            4,200           4,200
7-14          7,200      4,320         2,880      15,950      7,000        8,950           6,070                            6,070           6,070
15           7,200      4,320         2,880      15,950      7,000        8,950          23,400bl                         23,400          23,400
Financial Rate of Return - 7%
# Constant lirices assumed from 1980 onwards.                                                                                                          1!
b/ Includes ll 17,330 of incremental herd value.
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



- 54 -              ANNEX 3
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.        Estimates of the economic rate of return have been based on farm
models for beef/dairy and breeding/fattening units (Annexes 1 and 2) and on
less detailed estimates of incremental benefits and costs for remaining
farm types. In the analysis, the following major assumptions were made:
(a) since Panama is a net exporter of beef and a net importer of dairy
products, f.o.b. prices for beef and c.i.f. prices for dairy pro-
ducts were utilized to derive economic prices for output (Tables
1 to 4). At the farm level, the price thus calculated is based
on the export price of boneless beef, a boning yield of 35.8%, cost
of slaughter covered by by-products (including costs for the
local market), and transport costs involved. Similarly, the on-farm
economic price of milk is derived from the weighted average of
reconstituted milk from different sources (powdered whole milk,
non-fat dried milk and butter oil), using appropriate conversion
factors. Tables 1, 2, and 3 reveal that, while real prices for both
beef and milk have declined over the period under consideration,
actual on-farm prices have oscillated around the economic prices,
while generally following their downward trend. However, beef
prices tended to be rather higher than export parity, whereas
milk prices were rather lower than import parity;
(b) unskilled labor was valued at 80% of financial costs, except in the
case of Soloy. There, 50% of financial costs was used to reflect
the unusually low opportunity cost of labor in the very traditional
community;
(c) costs of project administration have been allocated between Loan
901-PAN and the follow-up Loan 1397-PAN and are phased out by 1985
when it is assumed that the project will be substantially completed;
and
(d) a project life of 20 years was utilized in the analysis of individual
project components. Incremental herd values were credited to the
benefit stream at the end of the project life.
2.        Based on these assumptions, economic rates of return for various
enterprise-types financed range from 4% (Soloy) to 13% (dual-purpose beef/
dairy model), and the overall rate of return on the entire project, taking
due account of the weights of different enterprise-types in the on-farm
investment program, is 8% (Table 5). 1/ This reduction from the 15% expected
at appraisal is explained by (a) the lower number of participating farms
(340 versus 570 expected at appraisal); (b) poorer than expected increases in
on-farm productivity; and (c) the sharp drop in real prices of beef and milk
during implementation.
1/   If industrial milk is shadow priced at the import parity price for
reconstituted milk, plus a 20% quality premium for fresh milk, then the
overall rate of return on the entire project is 9%.



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimate of Economic Farmgate Prices of Beef, 1972-1980, Export Parity in Current Balboas per kg
---- ---------------------------Years------------        -------------------
1972      1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980
(Appr.)
Boneless
(1)  FOB Cristobal                   1.30      1.41       1.28      1.27      1.39       1.67      2.61/    2.43_/
(2)  Transport to Cristobal           .01       .01        .02       .02       .03        .03       .04        .04      1
(3)  Ex-plant = (1) - (2).3)         1.29      1.40       1.26      1.25      1.36       1.70      2.57      2.39
Live Weight
(4)  Economic value at plant
= (3) x .3578                    .46        .50       .45       .45        .49       .61       .92        .86
(5)  Transport farms to plant         .01       .01        .02       .02       .02        .03       .03       .03
(6)  Economic farmgate value
= (4) - (5)                      .45        .49       .43       .43        .47       .58       .89        .83
For Comparison
(7)  Actual on-farm price-/           .48       .51        .54       .54       .63        .66       .79        .88
(8)  On-farm price as % of
economic price = (7)/(6) x 100   107       104        126       126       134        114        89        106 
a x
! Economic cost of slaughter covered by by-products.
/ Mission estimates.
/ In the years 1975 to 1978, these data indicate that on-farm prices paid materially exceeded export parity prices
at the plant. Further research would be required to explain this unusual finding.
ource: Mission estimates.



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimate of Economic Farmgate Prices of Milk, Import Parity. 1972-1980, in Current Balboas per metric ton
1972      1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      19794'      198CL
A. Import Prices
(1)  Whole powdered milk (WPm)     1,080     1,500     1,970     2,380     2,410     2,470      2,950       2,910
(2)  Non-fat dried milk   (NFDM)     856     1,015     1,240       851       549       695        905       1,005
(3)  Butter oil                    1,590     1,950     2,410     1,620     1,140     1,310      1,730       1,900
B. Economic Value of Milk
B.1 Consumer Level
(Reconstituted Milk)
(4)  Milk from WPMb_/               155        215       280       340       340       350        420        420
(5)  Milk from NFDM/BQ(/            162        203       245       183       142       162        204        230
(6)  Weighted average                                                                                                         tn
(4) and (5)_I                160        204       253       249       204       234       287         303
B.2  Farm Level (Fluid Milk)
(7)  Value at consumer level - (6)   160       204       253       249       204       234        287        303
(8)  Transport, pasteurizing          40        60        68        72        80         80        92        108
(9) Value at farm level
- (7) - (8)                   120       144       185       177       124        154       195        195
C. For Comparison
(10)  Actual on-farm price            100       140       150       165       165       165        165        190
(11) On-farm price as X of
economic price
- (10)/(9) x 100               83        97        81        93       133        107        85         97
B/ Mission estimates.
b/- ()(7); no reconstitution cost included since WPM is generally imported in household size packages.
ct Based on 3.5X of butter oil and 9.51 of NFDM, plus reconstituting and selling cost of 68 B./t in 1980 prices.
d/ Weighted by the volume of imports of WPM and NFDM.
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-farm Beef and Milk Prices, 1972-1980 in Balboas
------------------------------Years-------------____________________
1972        1974     1975      1976     1977     1978     1979      1980
(Appraisal)
A. Current Prices
Beef (kg l.w.)
Steers                            0.48        0.51     0.54     0.54      0.63     0.66     0.79     0.88
Cull Cows                         0.38        0.40     0.43     0.43      0.50     0.53     0.63     0.70
Milk (litre)
Industrial                        0.10        0.14     0.15     0.165     0.165    0.165    0.165    0.19
Grade A                           0.20        0.21     0.21     0.21      0.24     0.24     0.24     0.28
B. Constant 1972 Balboas
Beef (kg l.w.)
Steers                            0.48        0.35     0.33     0.31      0.33     0.33     0.35     0.33
Cull Cows                         0.38        0.28     0.26     0.24      0.26     0.27     0.28     0.27
Milk (litre)
Industrial                        0.10        0.10     0.09     0.09      0.09     0.08     0.07     0.07   X >
Grade A                           0.20        0.15     0.13      0.12     0.13     0.12     0.11     0.11
C.  Beef/Milk Price Ratios
Steers/Industrial Milk            4.8         3.6      3.6      3.3       3.8      4.0      4.8      4.6
Steers/Grade A Milk               2.4         2.4      2.6       2.6      2.6      2.8      3.3      3.1
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Beef and Milk Prices Used for Economic Analysis, in Constant 1980 Balboas- per Metric Ton
------------------------Beef (liveweight) -----------------------          ------------Milk-------------
Efficiency          Efficiency                          Economic         Efficiency       Economic
farmgate   b/        farmgate  /               d/        price            farmgat,         price - f})
Tear                price. steers-       all cattle-        Sales Tax-         (2) - (3)         price-        net of tax-
(1)                 (2)               (3)               (4)              (5)              (6)
1974                      895                850                4               846               263              260
1975                      689                655                4               651               296              293
1976                     639                 607                4               603               263              260
1977                      651                618                4               614               172              170
1978                      763                725                4               721               203              201
1979                    1,027                976                4               972               225              223
1980                     830                 789                4               785               195              193
1981                      790                751                4               747               213              211
1982                      760                722                4               718              231               229
1983                      730                694                4               690               231              229
1984                      700                665                4               661               231              229
1985-99                  670                 637                4               633              231               229
e/ Inflated by index of wholesale prices, where appropriate.
( Source:   1974-1980:
c/ 952 of the steer prlce.
d/ B 1.50 per male sold for slaughter, B 0.75 for cull cows, 2% of the value of breeding heifers, and B 0.50 per calf;
amounts to about 0.52 of sales.
.sI Source for 1974-
1974/80 was assumed from 1982 onward.
f/ Sales tax of 1%
Source: Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981



PANAMA
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 901-PAN)
Eatimate of Economic Rate of Return (in B '000 constant 1980-/1
----------------------------------- Consolidated Incremental Economic Benefits by Farm Type/---------------------------
Subtotal -
Incremental        Technical         Incrental
----------------------HModels----------------------       --------------Rough Estimtes ---------------     Economic Benefits     Services       Ecomic Benefit
Beef/Dairv      Breeding/Fattening       Spew. Dairy      SoloY      Asentamientos       Dairy Breeding      at Farm Level         Cost            to Project
Number qf Farms                    156                 72                   25            82               3                 2                  340
Weight_                              0.428              0.217                0.211          0.080          0.033             0.031                1.000
Year
1974                            ( 795)               (437)                (440)          (250)          ( 80)             ( 90)                  (2,092)         (261)           (2,353)
1975                            (1,222)              (725)                (660)          (350)          (160)             (120)                  (3,237)         (352)           (3.589)
1976                            ( 996)               (689)                (530)          (350)          (110)             (100)                  (2,775)         (492)           (3,267)
1977                            ( 969)               (613)                (500)          (270)          ( 90)             ( 90)                  (2,533)         (481)           (3,014)         U
1978                            ( 153)               (209)                ( 80)           20              10                20                   ( 392)          (260)           ( 652)
1979                               372                 67                  180            30              20                30                     699           (149)              550
1980                               236                  6                  110            20              10                20                     402           (130)              272
1981                               724                229                  340            70              30                50                    1,443          ( 68)            1,375
1982                               822                220                  380            70              40                60                    1,592          ( 68)            1.524
1983                              994                 310                  450            90              50                70                    1,964          ( 68)            1,896
1984                               982                287                  440            90              50                60                    1,909          ( 68)            1,841
1985                               966                291                  430            90              50                60                    1.887          ( 68)            1,819
1966-92                           982                 300                  440            90              50                60                   1,922             -              1.922
1993                             1,350                641                  680            90              50                60                   2,871             -              2,871
1994                             1,292                719                  650            90              50                60                   2,861             -              2,861
1995                               742                398                  370           750             320               710                    3,290            -              3,290
1996                               556                322                  280            -               -                 -                    1,158             -              1,158
1997                               307                178                  150            -               -                 -                      635             -                635
1998                               188                 96                   90            -               -                 -                       374            -                374
1999                               244                170                  120            -               -                 -                      534             -                534
Rate of Return (S)                  12.6A/              6.2                 11             4               7                11                       10j/          -                  8-
a/ Inflator: Index of wholesale prices.
h/ Cal.ulated with economic prices, i.e. border prices net of taxes and implicit subsidies. As for beef and milk prices for 1981 to
199', see Table 3, footnotes 2 and 5.
c/ Basud on weight of investment by farm type as a proportion of total on-farm investment program.
d; If :ndustrial milk produced by the beef/dairy model is shadow priced at the import parity price for reconstituted milk plus a 20S
quasity premium for fresh milk, then the rate of return of the enterprise is 15.6S, the ratn of return to the directly productive                                                      s
comp,onent of the project is IlS, and the rate of return for the entire project is 9S.
Source! Mission estimates.
June 2, 1981






IBRD 10159RIPCR)
-                                                                                                          "' -8'                                        JUNE 1981
-1 ,F   /    B   B   f   A    N         S 
<  ~  )       ~       * "  : . del Toro      INTE__AME ICAN HIGH\>AY                  L S   S   CLONSI      *   0ISLAS DE SAN BLOS
Ct  j                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~ ~  ~  ~~I NEOAoOOCAN ,A AAA  DARDOS  & :no  4.>  1  *k   -  - s Q 
F ~~~~~~~~~,       .          <~~~~~~~~~~~~holuIIIO  _.=___ PAVED AR CALL-EVODEDOADS  C  4               u.oL 
A .Lrr, 1op/D C h eA                 ANI
_9o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AIFED DR LANIN SDRIPS*                                   1)1       'o- -{ Mogil   IS  IVSOKDVLP<N  RJET(aohn  
0                 r  0  t S Esus uertzMull;b* p V 4. FORDSOoIi
A LNIIED                        PAN MA ;CASO L                    F   I         NntE&N     -  - - - A-ANA - V   PA NA M A .  *t(
I - I L b O i ' . . r/ c O  ' .        .  <   ; ;   t   \ IN T O O N A IID N A L N D A S   C O L O   ^N   a s m enN  ,h, -
< CAfEANA                                                                                              AIN A1PANAM          N I
* foqo<ese SODAS DE    TO RD                                                                                   0 PAAM  4AD59 Er              /
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PCl/Opo  r  -   S ARID  C           /001           F~  K C  A         CoDrElL  THrS   A     Pan m   D O                     AU  RIS R 
J COLOMBIA  l2       14                             AMENDED A84D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  L  PRO ECT C INFOARAE HAV BEE  R  E0 N2TN
p  I Ill *Q Li             *     0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ARCHIPELAADrOA''
IJdo1g  bpeoregoi  Soboo .  I          *AG                   ARIr wSr Codos          DE LAS PERLAS  * ''
VERAGLAS.b,                      ATO..P-d-
* oMe.      rirg  'SrtcHri                        PArN  AMVA                                 El ReoI
8'                           * ~~~~~s4~~* 3 * *    *   o~~~~~~griho  FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT *o~0.6K
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oioromoi  0 0  POrOAqOI               ~~~~~~BANK NATIONAL OF PANAMA 
UNITES STATES  Li prT               0L                                 Tblos             FFOICEN
CUIZ -                       ANt>~                  '  L nd       ocr         A  D"CEDINL$'S                                               2  
HAITI  SEM.  DO  SE                                                                                                       '  'j-T HNICIN
C'jB,ELIZEARIBEA REA      R0                                                            RIARANCANJto
'-r O NDARAS  CAIBEADF                                                            0LNANRArDNOMNn-OAS NER00-PNA
GUATEMALACv"/J                                                                                                                                   O         l 
EL SALVADOR  'l  ~NICARABDU. -'                                                            A   MILE FA-IOIAN 
CIR011TA        L                                                                                                 L
PACIFIC DCEAN                   P   Aa               C                        A cTHIS MAP IS OASES ON IBRD 151R9, AUGAST 1074,NIE
COLOMBI5A     I       .   II          1         N   CSOME ADMINISTRATIVE BOUDNOA RIES HAVE BEEN  0  0    40`  500 0
2                   8,                        80'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMENDED AND PROJECT INFO RMATION CHANGED.  --LOETERS



