FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 42a-PAN
PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 19, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUVALTS
US$1    -  B (Balboa) 1
NEIGHTS AV MELURS
1 hectare (ha)           - 10,000 m2  - 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilcster (km)          - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 uquar. kiloíeter (km2) - 100 ha  0 0.39 aquare miles (sq. mi)
1 kilogra  (kg)           = 2.20 peunda (lb)
1,000 kg                  = 1 metric ton (m. ton)
1 líter (1)              a 0.26 gallon (gal)
ACROND(S AID ABBREVIATIONS
Al            - Artifcial Inseamination
ASUITAUMT    - Land af'orm Settleiunt Enterprise
AU             a Animal Unit
B  Banco Nacional de Panama
MRA           - Agrarian Reforn Comisaion
in             m Instituto de Famento Economico
NDA           -   !inistiy of Agriculture and Livestock Development
BD&            m Agriculture and Livestock Development Bank
UNIT          - Project Nanagement Unit
BNP FISCAL YFAR
Janaary 1 to Decemrber 31



PANAMA
APPRAISAL OF
FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................                     i-i
I.   INTRODUCTION ................,,.......... *e ...................        1
II.   BACKGROUND ..................
A. General .... ........1
B.  The Agricultural Setting                      .... 2
C. The Livestock Subsector....                                        3
D. Government Policy. ..                                              4
E. Agricultural Credit                      .... 5
III. TIIE PROJECT.                                                             7
A. General Description. . .                                           7
B.  Detailed Features ... ...                          . .            9
C . Cost Estimates                 . . .12
D. Financing . .                                                     13
E.   Procurement .............                    .     .14
F. Disbursements                    ...14
G.  Organization and Management               ...15
B.  Lending Policies and Procedures    ...16
I.   Accounts and Audit ..............            .. . .18
IV.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCF.R
BENEFITS....  ...........19
A. Production   ..19
B. Markets and Marketing   .                    .19
C. Producer Benefits   B                    . .                      20
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .22
VI.  AGREEMENTS RFACRED AND RECONMENDATION .23
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Panama in
June-July 1972, composed of Messrs. S. Silbiger, F. Knobel, and T. Minhas
(Bank) and Mr. C. Chisholm (Livestock Consultant).



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Imports and Exports of Goods and Food Products
2.   Gross Domestic Product at Factor Costs
Table 1   -    Distribution Between Sectors and Annual
Average Compound Growth Rates
Table 2   -    Gross Internal Product at Market Prices for
the Agricultural, Forestry, and Fishing
Sectors 1960 to 1969
3.   Number of Cattle, Animals Slaughtered by Sex, Offtake Percentage
4.   Number of Dairy Cows by Provínce
5.   Land Tenure, Agrarian Reform, Taxes, and Agricultural Services
Table 1   -    Land Tenure - 1970
Appendix 1 -   Explanation of Various Types of Land Tenure
6.   The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
Table 1   -    Loan Portfolio of Banking System by Sector
Table 2   -    BNP - Condensed Annual Balance Sheet
Table 3   -    BNP - Comparative Income Statements, 1967-71
Table 4   -    BNP - Balance Sheet Projectíons, 1972-80
Table 5   -    BNP - Annual Earnings Projectiíon, 1972-77
Table 6   -    BNP - Loans Granted by Sector, 1967-71
7.   Model 1 - Small Dairy Farm - 20 ha
Table 1   -    Estimate of Irvestment Cost
Table 2   -    Herd Development Projection
Tab"<- 3   -    Estimate of Sales and Operating Costs
Table 4   -    Financial Projections
8.   Model 2 - Beef/Dairy Farm - 100 ha
Table 1   -    Estimate of lnvestment Costs
Table 2   -    Herd Projection
Table 3   -    Estimate of Sales and Operating Costs
Table 4   -    Financial Projections
9.   Model 3 - Breeding/Fattening Ranch - 400 ha
Table 1   -    Estimate of Investment Cost
Table 2   -    Herd Projection
Table 3   -    Estimate of Sales and Operating Costs
Table 4   -    Financial Projections
10.   Model 4 - Breeding/Fattening Ranch on a Land Reform Settlement
Enterprise (Asentamiento)
Table 1   -    Estimate of Investment Cost
Table 2   -    Herd Projection
Table 3   -    Estimate of Sales and Operating Costs
Table 4   -    Financial Projections



-3-
11.   Model 5 - Purebred Breeding Center - 400 ha
Table 1   -    Estimate of Investment Cost
Table 2   -    Herd Projection
Table 3   -    Estimate of Sales and Operating Costs
Table 4   -    Pinancial Projections
12.   Estinate of Investment Cost for Technical and Consultant Services
13.   Project Cost per Investment Item, Model and Total
14.   Import Duties of Project-Related Items
15.   Disbursement and Phasing of Investments
Table 1  -    Annual Phasing of Investments aud
Disbursements
Table 2   -    Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
16.   Terms of Reference and Qualifications for Technical and
Consultant Services
17.   Projection of Project Lending Program
18.   Lending Terms and Conditions
19.   Milk and Beef Marketing
Table 1   -    Total Milk Production, 1965-70
Table 2   -    Import and Export of Milk and Mílk Products
Table 3   -    Projected Demand - Supply Balances for
Agricultural Products in Panaina, 1975 and 1980
Appendix 1 -   The Market Outlook for Panamanian Beef Exports
20.   Basic Data of Producer Benefits
21.   Estímate of Financlal Rates of Return by Models
22.   Fstimated Rate of Return to the Economy
CHARTS AND MAP
Organization Chart - BNP
Organization Chart - Livestock Development Project
Project Area






PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Panama's agricultural sector provides a livelihood for about
40% of the country's population and contributes approximately 70% of the
country's total commodity export. Production of foodstuffs in the past
decade grew at an annual rate slightly above 4% compared with an increase
of population of about 3.7%, but, because of growíng domestic demand, Panama
has become a net importer of meat and dairy products, anounting to about
US$8 millions annually. The country, however, has a great potential
for significantly increasing its production of meat and dairy products
by adapting modern technology and by settling new areas with a good
capacity for livestock operations.
ii.       Government is aware of the development possibilities and has
requested Bank assistance in financing a livestock project, which would
be the first of its type in Panama, although three other loans have been
made to the agricultural sector in the past.  Two, amounting to US$1.5
million, were approved in 1953 for farm machinery (US$1.2 million) and
grain silos (US$0.3 million).  The third loan (784-PAN) for fisheries de-
velopment - US$3.4 million - became effective December 1971. Project progress
is behind schedule because retendering for fishing vessels is required since
only one valid bid was recelved. But under Panamanian law at least two valid
bids are required.
iii.      This report appraises a livestock development project for which
a Bank loan of US$4.7 million equivalent is proposed. The Project would
support development on about 570 cattle enterprises, involving five types of
production units - small dairy farms which use or will use intensive pro-
duction systems; beef/dairy farms, where a small percentage of the animals
are milked daily; breeding/fattening ranches, which use or will use extensive
production practices; breeding/fattening ranches on land reform settlement
enterprises (asentamientos); and purebred breeding centers. Investments
would be made in pasture development, fencing, facilities for better manage-
ment of livestock, livestock purchases, and technical and consultant services.
A feasibility study would also be financed to serve as a basis for possible
future livestock development on the Atlantic coast. Total Project cost
would be about US$13.5 million. The proposed loan, equivalent to about
35% of total Project cost, would finance the estimated foreign exchange
component.
e



- ji -
iv.       Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), a Government-owned bank, would be
the borrower and would be responsible for Project administration. It would
also bear the foreign exchange risk. Although it is expected that BNP would
be the major participant in making loans to Project beneficiaries, it would
also channel IBRD funds to other lending institutions such as Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA) and interested private banks at an interest
rate of 8%.
v.        Participating financial institutions would extend loans to ranchers/
farmers and asentamientos to cover about 80% of total new investments for
development and working capital when needed. Repayment terms for loans would
be flexible, ranging from seven to 12 years, with grace periods of three to
four years. The interest rate would be a minimum of 10%.
vi.       Goods  and vehicles  would be procured through existing commercial
channels because the diversity, small size of individual purchases, and
free choice to be left to the individual borrower would make international
bidding impractical.  Panama has a good network of dealers in agricultural
inputs, competition among local suppliers of these goods is keen, and the
facilities for maintenance and servicing of vehicles and machinery are
adequate.
vii.      As a result of the Project, participating farmers would modernize
their production management practices; about 600 new jobs would be generated
and at full development, beginning about Year-10, estimated incremental pro-
duction would amount to about 8,000 tona of carcasa meat, which is approxi-             e
mately 30% of total current beef production, and 7,000 tons of milk, which
ís about 10% of present domestic production or about 17% of present dairy
product imports. Furthermore, about 8,500 good quality breeding heifers
and approximately 500 bulls would become available annually to help upgrade
the national herd.
viii.          The financial rates of return are estimated to range between
15% and 21%. The overall economic rate of return is estimated at about 15%.
During negotiations appropriate assurance were obtained and the Project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$4.7 million for a term of 16 years, includ-
íng five years of grace.



e
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Panama has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a countrywide beef and dairy development project aimed at increasing the
supply of beef, milk, and breeding animals, both on snall and medium-sized
farms and on recently established land reform settlement enterprises (asen-
tamientos). The proposed Project would be the first stage of a long-
range comprehensive livestock developiaent program. Two PAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program missions, which visited Panama in October 1971 andlebruary 1972,
assisted Government ín preparing this Project, which would be the first Bank
undertaking for livestock development in that country.
1.02      The Bank h2s made three loans to Panama in the agricultural sector,
totaling US$4.9 million. The first - Loan 86-PAN for US$1.2 million -
was for farm machínery - and the second - Loan 87-PAN for US$0.3 million
- was for grain silos. Both were approved in 1953. The third -- Loan
784-PAN for US$3.4 million - for fisheries development became effective,
December 1, 1971. Project progress ls behind schedule because retendering for
fishing vessels is required since only one valid bid was received.  But under
Panamanian law at least two valid bids are required. Other assistance has
been given by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), which has granted
seven agricultural development loans totaling about US$17 million over the
past decade, mainly for livestock development. The United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) has lent about US$7.5 million, largely
for assistance to improve production by small farmers. Additionally, bilateral
technical assistance has been provided by the United Kingdom for irrigation
studies; by Israel for irrigation, cooperative training, and agrarian reform;
by Chile for agrarian reform; and by the Federal Republic of Germany for
vegetable growing. Even though Panama has received financial assistance
from several bilateral sources, capital from such sources has been virtually
exhausted. The Project would provide funds needed to support the expanding
growth of the livestock subsector.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission
that visited Panama in June/July 1972. Mlembers of the mission were
Messrs. S. Silbiger, V. Knobel, and T. Minhas (Bank) and Mr. C. Chisholm,
Consultant on Livestock Production.
II. BACKGROUND
A.  General
2.01      Panana, with an area of about 74,^7)  znf, occup4Is the southern
portion of the Isthmus joining North and South America. Its wldth varies



- 2 -
from 50 to 200 kb  and its length extends about 650 km in an east to west
direction. The population, which is growing at about 3.3% annually, now
stands at about 1.5 million. The literacy rate of the adult population is
about 80%, one of the highest in Latin America.
2.02      Average per capita income has been increasing at about 8% annually
and reached US$730 in 1970 1/. However, income differentials between the
non-agricultural sectors and the agricultural sector appear to be of the order
of three to cne. The cost of living increased by about 1.5% annually from
1962 to 1970. The country has enjoyed an open and stable environment that,
together with the influence of the Panama Canal Zone, has led to the devel-
opment of an advanced communications, banking, and entrepot community.
B. The AMricultural Setting
2.03      The topography of Panama is dominated by a mountain range extending
the length of the Isthmus. The most important agricultural area lies west
of Panama City on the Pacific slope where the terrain is rolling to hilly
but where there are also large areas of flat agricultural land. The area to
the east of Panama City is mostly undeveloped. The completion of the Pan-
American Highway to the Colombian border, projected for about 1980, and the
planned development of feeder roads in the Atlantic coast area are expected
to bring about an acceleration of agrícultural and livestock production in
both these areas.
2.04      Reconnaissance studies indicate that at least 35% of the total
land area is suitable for agricultural and livestock purposes, but at pre-
sent, only about 25% is utilized. Frontier areas are beíng extended contin-
uously, but, in spite of the large amounts of potentially usable pastoral
land, farm sizes tend to be small, particularly in the central provinces.
Some 60% of al! farmers (about 100,000) have less than 20 ha.  Farmers hold-
ing over 100 ha make up less than 3% of the total number of farmers but account
for about 40% of total land in use. The dominant cropping pattern on small
farms is food grains for consumption and local sales, while the cultivation
of comercial crops, such as rice and sugar, and the raising of cattle is con-
centrated in large holdings.
2.05      Panama's agricultural sector provides a livelihood for approximately
50% of the country's population and accounts for almost the same percentage
in total employment 2/. It also contributed some 75% of the country's total
commodity exports over tbe last five to six years (Annex 1). Production of
foodstuffs for domestic consumption during the 1960's grew at a rate slightly
above 4% annually, but, because of growing domestic demand, food imports have
also been increasing and now amount to about 10% of the total value of all
imports. Panama has become a net importer of meat and meat products, mainly
in high value processed forms (such as hams). In 1971, the CIF value of
Tí   Source:  World Bank Atlas, 1972.
2/   Source:  Direccion de Estadistica y Censo, Estadisticas del Trabajo -
1970, Panama.



-3-
imported meat was about US$4.6 million, while the FOB value of exported meat
was around US$1.3 million. The country is also a net importer of dairy pro-
ducts and, ln 1971, it imported 40% of the amount consumed at a cost of
about US$5 million.
2.06       Although agriculture's contríbution to the nation's Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) declined from about 23% in 1960 to about 18% in 1971, the
sector ahowed an average annual growth rate over the same period of approxi-
mately 5.3% in real terms (Annex 2, Table 1). Contributions by subsectors,
however, were quite diverse - the banana subsector grew at an annual rate of
about 11% while others averaged about 4%. The index of total agricultural
production for Panama over the 1962-71 period indicates an increase of 53%,
compared with 28% for Latín America as a whole.
2.07       Average per capita dietary levels are satisfactory and remained
nearly unchanged in the period 1960 to 1970. Daily calorie intake was esti-
mated at about 2,350 in 1960 and about 2,475 in 1970, an increase of about
5%, with rice providing about half at a consumption rate of some 65 kg per
capita annually. Protein consumption is estimated at about 69 grams per
capita daily, with around 45%, or 31 grams, coming from animal sources. An-
nual meat and fish consumption per capita at about 35 kg compares well with
some other South American countries, such as Venezuela, 36 kg; Colombia,
28 kg; and Guyana, 23 kg. About 20% of the total calorle intake and about
one-fourth of the proteins consumed have been imported over the past five
years, the latter mostly in the form of meat and dairy products. Government's
objective is to achieve within the next five to 10 years a daily per capita
intake of 2,800 calories, including about 70 to 80 grame of protein, half to
be animal protein.
C. The Livestock Subsector
Livestock Production
2.08       Over the past decade, the gross value of livestock production
increased from about US$28 million in 1960 to about US$49 míllion in 1970,
growing at an annual rate of around 6%. The percentage of the gross value
of livestock in total agricultural production, however, remained nearly
the same, about 27%, with cattle accounting for slightly over one-third.
The importance of pork production declined from about 11% in 1960 to about
6% in 1970, while poultry production showed a fast increase.
2.09       Panama had 1.24 million (Annex 3) head of cattle on May 16, 1971,
the date of the latest agricultural census. Since the previous census in
1961, the national herd has gone up at the compound annual rate of 4.9% a
year, with surveys in the intervening years indicating above-average growth
until 1968 and an average of 3.7% after that. According to the agricultural
survey of 1966, out of a total of about 100,000 farms in Panama, some 28,000
had cattle.  Nearly 22,000 had less than 20 head per farm, whíle the 570



-4-
largest (200 head or more each) carried about 55% of the total. Cattle
raising was of secondary importance on about three-quarters of the farms
having cattle in 1961, with primary emphasis placed on crop production
(1961 Agricultural Census). There was no substantial change during the
1960's.
2.10       Panama's cattle are concentrated mainly in Chiriqui, Veraguas, and
Los Santos provinces (these three having about 65% of the total in 1971).
Some are raised in Herrera, Cocle, and parts of Panama, while the Atlantic
slope, on the eastern part of Panama province, and the province of Darien
have only small numbers of cattle.. Originally, the cattle were of criollo
stock but they have now-been largely upgraded to Brahmans. Dairy cattle,
numbering nearly 100,000 head (Annex 4), are mainly of Holstein and Brown
Swiss breeds.  Eighty percent of the dairy stock is concentrated in Chiriquí,
Herrea and Los Santos provinces.
Animal Health
2.11       Panama's animal production ís not constrained by any major disease.
Panama and other Central American countries are free of foot-and-mouth
disease (FMD). The lack of road communication has protected Panama from in-
troduction of the disease frorm Colombia but this situation will alter with
the completion of the Pan-American Highway (para 2.03). In July 1972, the
Pan American Health Organization convened a meeting in Bogota to consider
steps to be taken to prevent spread of the disease in Panama.  It recommended
creation of a buffer zone 8 km desp, free of cattle, in che northern part of
Colombia (Department of Choco) along the border with Panama.  The Panama Gov-
ernment is fully aware of the importance of the issue and it can be expected
that if the Colombians do not establish adequate protective measures, the
Panamanians will reinforce the necesaary buffer zone on their side of the
border. 1/  Internal and external parasites are the main cause of animal
disease and regular dipping or spraying is necessary, especially in the case
of imported breeding stock, since the effects of tick-borne diseases are
particularly severe on such animals. Veterinary vaccines and drugs are free
from import duty and taxes and they are readily available at competitive
prices.
D. Government Policy
Objectives
2.12       Panama's rural population makes up 52% of the total and it is grow-
ing at a rate of 4% per annum. There is a constant flow of people to the
1/    Already by Decree No. 89 (September 20, 1960) and Lurther defined by
Decree No. 80 (December 23,1964), Panama has established a 32-km buffer
zone on its border contiguous to Colombia.                                         e



5
cities and Government, wishing to curb this movement, is interested in develop-
ing the agricultural sector to improve the income of the farming population.
Another major goal of the Government 1s for Panama to become self-sufficient
in milk and meat. During 1971, Panama had to import meat and dairy producta
amounting to the equivalent of US$9.6 million in order to meet the rising
demand. Meat exports amounted to only US$1.3 million. Since the potential
for expanding beef and milk production in Panama is good, considering that
climate and topography are favorable and that there is a mixture of semi-
tropical flatlands and under-utilized pastures for cattle fattening and
cooler uplands for breeding and milk production, the proposed Project would
make a significant contribution in helping Government achieve its objectives.
Agrarian Reform
2.13       In 1962, an Agrarian Code (Law 37, September 21, 1962) was approved
by the Government, forming the basis of the agrarian reform policy. The Code's
general objective is to "transform the land tenure structure in Panama in
accordance with the social function and economic efficiency of the land in
exploitation" (neither of the terms, "social function" or "economic efficiency,"
is clearly defined by the Code). The Agrarian Reform Commission (CRA) was
created in 1963 but had no significant effect on the development process
within the agricultural sector until 1969 since it concerned itself primarily
with planning and programing, using data supplied by a Rural Cadaster, Na-
tural Resources and Rural Tax Administration Survey, financed by budgetary
expenditures of US$2 million and an AID loan of US$2.4 million. No gratul-
tous titling has been initiated and the agency's policy of "title-through-
purchase" has had only limited acceptance for fear of property taxation
(Annex 5), notwithstanding the low purchase price of US$10 to US$100 per ha
and 20-year no-interest terms.
2.14       In February 1969, CRA started a program to repos8ess unexploited
and tax delinquent private properties and has so far enjoyed considerable
voluntary participation by the affected landowners. Payment to the farm
owners ¡a by 40-year Government bonds and land is assessed at about 80% of
its market value. Repossessed land is then resold in three or four years
to the squatters who have occupied it and who, in the meantime, have been
organized into land reform settlement enterprises (asentamientos) and given
training in improved production technology.
2.15       Additional information concerning land tenure, agrarian reform and
taxes is given in Annex 5. Also covered are agricultural services, including
education, research, extensíon, and artificial insemination (AI) for dairy
cattle.
E. Agricultural Credit
2.16       Agricultural and, in particular, livestock credit is provided by
both public and private banks (Annex 6). The banking system in Panama is
well developed and competitive and blankets the country with some 190 agencies



-6-
and/or offices, with head offices in Panama City.  There are two public banks,
a state development bank, and 19 private banks. Although institutional credit
to the agricultural sector increased about 2-1/2 times between 1967 and 1971,
its share in total lending declined from 6.6% to 3.6% during this period.
Furthermore, while agriculture accounts for about 18% of GDP (para 2.06), it
receives less than 7% of domestic institutional credit. Total portfolio at
the end of 1971 stood at US$50 million, about 70% of which was held by pri-
vate commercial banks and the other 30% by two Government-owned credit in-
stitutions. Private banks charge 10% to 12% interest and publie banks, 9%
to 10%. Private banks pay 4-1/2% on savings deposits and 6-1/2% on time
deposita while public banks pay 5-1/2% on savinga and 6-1/2% on time deposits.
2.17       As in the past rural credit programs will cor.tinue to be supported
by USAID and IDB (para 1.02). USAID is considering a US$7.7 million Small
Farmers Improvement Project, out of which US$3.7 mullion is identified for
credit and technical assistance for small (marginal) producers. IDB recently
approved a US$1.3 million loan as extension to its current operation, almost
fully disbursed, and ls planning an US$8 to 9 million loan for late 1973, for
which the Governnent ís now completing the application. While USAID intends
to contínue its emphasis on assisting subsístence farmers, allying its proj-
ects with prograns to improve rural health, nutrition, housing, and communlty
development, IDB intends to continue using its funda for credits to small and
small-to-medium farmers (average sub-loans under the last two IDB livestock
credit operations range from US$2,800 to US$6,500). The private banks are
predominantly involved in short-term credit to fattening operations and mar-
ket financing of agricultural products.
Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA)
2.18      BDA, an autonomous Government institution, was created on January 25,
1973, and although it is not yet operational. it ís expected to participate
under the Proaj- for lending to small farmers (para 3.26).  BDA will function
with the staff aid resources formerly belonging to the Instituto de Fomento
Economico (IFE) and have as its main objective the granting of supervised loans
for the development of agriculture, livestock, and agro-industry enterprises,
especially to small and medium size farmers and to cooperatives.  Its resources
will come mainly from:  (a) interest from lending; (b) Government grants; (c)
issue of bonds; (d) loans from other institutions; (e) funds raised by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MDA) Marketing Department;
and (f) the IFE's assets, with the exception of those belonginy to the Devel-
opment Department and Real Estate Department, which were transferred to "DA
to perforni marketing functions formerly carried out by IFE. Although, IPE
had annual losses of around US$500,o00 in the past, due largely to its storage
and marketing complex, it has lately earned a modest profit. Nearly all of
IFE's lending was to tbe agricultural/livestock sector and it developed a
capable core of technicians who worked principally in supervised credit devel-
opmrent projects in the livestock subsector. RDA participation in the Project,
would depend largely on provision of counterpart funds by Covernment. Before
BDA would become elegible to participate under the Project, its administra-
tive and financial structure and lending policies have to be established
satisfactorily (para. 3.26).  Additional information on BDA is given in Annex 6.           e



7-
Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP)
2.19      BNP, an autonomous Government agency, is the country's largest
commercial bank.  It serves as the Government's fiscal agent and has
limited central banking functíons. BNP assets have been growing steadi-
ly at 10% to 15% annually, and, as of the end of 1971, it had paid-in capital
of US$12 million and reserves of US$2.4 million. Net annual earnings are
close to US$1 million, giving it a return of 7% on capital and reserves in
1971. Four bankíng departments divide BNP's credit operations by sector:
Agriculture/Livestock, Mortgage (housing and construction), Commerce and
Personnel, and Industry Credit (Organization Chart). An international con-
sultant firm recently completed a management and operational study of the
Industry Credit Department, the results of which should lead to improvements
in all departments. BNP also has a countrywide network of three regional
offices and 34 branch offices.
2.20      BNP is anxious to expand its financing of agricultural and indus-
trial development programs, but, of the total loan portfolio, only about
15% is represented by agriculture/livestock and about 5% by industry. The
credit component of the propooed Project would be handled by the Agriculture
Banking Department, which is ably staffed with about 20 professionals, large-
ly agriculturalists. More staff would be required, hovever, to appraise and
supervise Project livestock development plans. Banking offices are located
in all of the Project areas. Additional information on BNP is given in
Annex 6.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would accelerate Government's program to Increase beef
and milk production by financing, over a five-year period, on-farm invest-
ments on about 570 cattle enterprises, involving five different types of
productíon units, consisting of approximately:
(a) 50 small dairy farms which use or will use the more
intensive production system;
(b)  300 beef/dairy farms, generally characterized by small
holdings where a small percentage of the cow/herd is
milked daily;
(c)  200 breeding/fattening ranches, reflecting the more
extensive type of medium size ranching production
practices;
(d)  10 breeding/fattening ranches on asentamientos; and



-8-
(e)  10 purebred breeding centers to íncrease the supply of
breeding stock and maintain and improve the quality of
the national herd.
The Project would also include technical services for the preparation and
supervision of investment plans and periodic consultant services to help
solve Project-related problems. Most farn/ranch investments would be in
five provinces -- Chiriqui, Veraguas, llerrera, Los Santos, and Cocle.
3.02      BNP would administer the Project and channel funds to BDA and par-
ticipating private banks for on-lending to borrowers. Funds made available
by the Project would finance investments in establishment of improved pas-
tures, adopting results developed by the MDA/PAO Pasture and Forage Research
Project at David; upgrading of breeding stock; provision of artificial in-
semination services; improvement of stockhandling facilities; construction
of housing for labor; purchase of machinery and equipment; and introduction
of better herd management practices. Additionally, a study would be con-
ducted to determine possible future livestock development on the Atlantic
coast. Assurances were obtained on this matter.
3.03      Types and sizes of typical enterprises, phasing under the proposed
lending program, and average investment per farm/ranch would be as follows:
Average    Total
Farm/Ranch        Number of               Invest-    Invest-
Enterprise             Size             Loans        Total     ment        ment
(ha)             (year)       (no)       (US$)  (US$ O000s)
1   2   3
1.  Small Dairy Farm    20            10   20  20    50       ! 13,300      665
2.  Beef/Dairy Ranch   100           100  150  50   300        16,000    4,800
3. Breeding/Fattening
Ranch             400           50  100  50   200        25,500    5,100
4.  Breeding/Fatteni4 
(Asentamiento)                   5    3   2    10         45,000      450
5. Purebred Breeding
Center             400            4    3   3    10        85,000       850
Total                     169  276 125   570                  11,865
e



9
B. Detailed Features
Small Dairy Farm (Annex 7)
3.04      The viability of the proposed small dairy producer depends mainly
on improved pasture situation, replacing existing cattle with better stock,
and improved milk handling facilities. Seasonal calving to coincide with
the start of the wet season, rotational grazing, use of AI, separate rearing
of calves, and use of family labor characterize the management methods re-
quired. The practical nature of these methods has been demonstrated by the
MDA/FA0 Pasture and Forage Research Project at David. Intensive pasture
production based on Pangola, African Star grass, Guatemala grass, and Pasto
Aleman is widely known and practiced in Panama and the techniques already
now in use on some ranches present few technical problems. To ensure that
the wet season feed these pastures would produce would be efficiently util-
ized, each farm would be partitioned into gmall fields, largely by use of
electric fences. Since the intensive grazing of good quality pasture by
inferior milking cows is economically incompatible, a substantial component
of the proposed investment plan would be earmarked for purchase of good
quality dairy heifers, available within the country. Calves would be
raised by allowing them to suckle cows once daíly after milking and they
would also be fed a calf supplement. Dry season feed supplies would be
based on reserves of standing hay and minimal supplementation with locally
produced cotton seed meal.  Milk production would be seasonal and would
cease during the dry season, except in those areas where there were few
nutritional difficulties. Physical facilities for hand milking operations
would be improved by building small covered milking sheds and equipping
open yards with concrete floors. In the case of larger dairy units operating
on more intensified pastures, small milking machines would also be provided,
and, where year-round milk produttion was feasible and there was access to
fluid milk markets, milk cooling facilities would be financed. The milking
herd on a 20-ha unit would increase from about 10 cows to about 25 cows (85%
milked at full development), and weaning percentage would likely rise from
about 60% to 85%. Milk production should increase from about 750 liters to
1,900 liters and carrying capacities would be doubled. An average loan
would be about US$10,500.
Beef/Dairy Farm (Annex 8)
3.05      Specialized dairy or beef production on a medium size farm of
around 100 ha under the existing state of ranch development would be barely
viable financially, while the capital and improved cattle inputs required for
specialized dairy farming would be large and require gradual rather than im-
mediate implementation. Production Model 2, therefore, illustrates the type
of development which would take place under the Project on non-specialized
farms of 50 to 150 ha. The extent to which milk would become the dominant
source of income would vary according to location, the quality of existing
cattle, and the capacity of individual farm units to absorb capital and
technology.  In general terms, farms with good all-weather acceso roads to



- 10 -
Panama City and capable of providing adequate dry season cattle feed would
call for a high degree of specialization in milk production. In such farms,
emphasis would likely be placed on accelerating the replacement stock with
high-grade dairy animals (mainly Brown Swiss) and on providing improvements
in dry season pastures.  It was estimated that an average 40% of breeding
cows would be milked and that the value of milk sold would amount to about
one-fourth of total sales. However, it was assumed that the annual milk
yield per cow would increase from 500 liters to 800 liters. Farms with a
dry season feed problem and less attractive market access would concentrate
on raising crossbred-type cattle capable of providing cheap supplies of wet
season milk for industrial use and on rearing large, well-grown calves suited
to fattening on relatively unimproved pastures.  The principal management
objectives on this type of operation in the first years of development would
be to improve calving rates, increase the herd size, and raise milk yields.
Weaning rates could be expected to show immediate improvement as infertile
cows would be culled through pregnancy testing and the practice.of seasonal
mating would be introduced, combined with the purchase of incalf heifers.
Pasture improvement would be based largely on stimulat'ng the growth of the
numerous native legume species through application of phosphatic fertilizer 1/
and on introduction of Stylosanthes Guayanensis and Kudzu by drilling into
[burnt and lightly cultivated Hyperrhenia grassland areas. Increased invest-
fment in fencing would be essential for grazing control and some enterprises
lwould require additional water points, cattle yards, and dips. An average
loan would be about US$12,800.
Breeding/Fattening Ranch (Annex 9)
3.06      Ranches in excess of about 300 ha are devoted largely to beef
cattle breeding and fattening, although lactating cows are often milked
to provide supplementary income. Weaning rates are low, mainly because of
inadequate phosphorus and protein intake, particularly in lactating cattle
during the dry season, and slaughter age is often four to five years, rather
than the desired two to three years. Consequently, steers either consume
pasture that breeding cows could better utilize, or they are sold at
immature weights, thus causing a loss in potential income. Stocking rates
are relatively low and could be doubled by pasture improvement. A gradual
change of herd management system, involving seasonal calving, better nutrí-
tion based on improved pastures, and greater grazing control, represents the
basic approach to cattle improvement developed in this model. Initial empha-
sis would be on raising weaning rates. Investments would be for land clearing,
pasture improvement, fencing, and a small number of upgraded breeding stock,
although some farms would require additional water supplies, cattle yards,
dips, and weighing scales. A few borrowers might also require various types
of farm machinery related to improved cattle feeding to complement their
existing inventory. Access roads and housing for farm workers would be
constructed as necessary. An average loan would be about US$20,400.
1/   About 100 kg/ha triple superphosphate.



- 11 -
Breeding/Fattening Ranch on Land Reform
Settlement Enterpri-e (Asentamiento) (Annex 10)
3.07      Thís type of ranching enterprise undertakes a range of agricultural
production activities, including some livestock breeding in a herd build-up
period but with major emphasis on fattening. Participating enterprises would
be scattered throughout the country and include several to be developed in
new areas such as the Atlantic coast 1/ and Darien region. Each enterprise
would have a manager provided by MDA and would be assisted by MDA technicians.
A typical unit would have an initial breeding herd of about 50 cows, increas-
ing to about 160 cows at full development. The principal annual output would
be about 50 ranch-bred and 220 purchased steers fattened for slaughter. It
is expected that purchased steers for fattening would be obtained from the
national herd.  New investments would be principally for pasture improvement,
land clearing, and upgraded breeding stock. Other investments would include
fencing, stockhandling and watering facilities, and ranch structures. Short-
term credit would be provided for purchase of steers for fattening operations
by participating banks. An average loan would be about US$36,000.
Purebred Beef Breeding Center (Annex 11)
3.08      Usually, this type of unit would be a part of an ongoing comimercial
ranch that specialized in the sale of purebred breeding stock to commercial
ranchers.  Three, however, may be established at the MDA-operated vocational
Agriculture School in Divisa and at Buena Vista and Gualaca experiment station8
for use in demonstration work as well as for production. Project funds would
finance imports of top quality bulls and females, which would upgrade the
national purebred herd as well as increase the supply of better quality
animals for expected expansion of the national livestock industry. Average
investments for purebred stock (imported and local) would approximate 70%
of total new investments. Other principal inputs would be for improvement
of pastures, ranch structures, and fencing. An average loan would be about
US$68,000.
Technical Services and Training (Annex 12)
3.09      The technical services component of the Project would meet the costs
of engaging three experts for five years to form the core of the Project
Management Unit -- the Project Director, an Agricultural Economist, and a Dairy
Production Specialist (para. 3.20). An administrative assistant would also
be financed to serve with the Unit. Additionally, the Project would provide
training programs for Project technical staff within and outside Panama.
Consultant Services and Studies (Annex 12)
3.10      The Project would finance consultant services to assist with certain
Project-related matters, namely, (a) determination of the most suitable grass
1/   On the Atlantic coast, one pilot operation financed by Government funds
promises favorable production and socio-economic results.



- 12 -
and legume types for Panamanian pasture conditions and the most economic
methods of pasture establishment; (b) determination of the causes of rela-
tively low livestock fertility rates and measures to be taken to improve
these rates; and (c) performance of a feasibility study on livestock devel-
opment on the Atlantic coast. These three programs would be carried out by
BNP. Assurances were obtained during negotiations with respect to these
programs and, furthermore, that (a) the consultants would be appointed during
the first year of the Project to begin the work, and (b) Government would
maintain and take the necessary measures to prevent the introduction of foot
and mouth disease (FMD) in Panama (para 2.11).
C. Cost Estimates
3.11      Total Project cost is estimated at US$13.5 million (B 13.5 million),
of which approximately US$4.7 million, or 35%, is the foreign exchange com-
ponent. Detailed cost and foreign exchange estimates are shown in Annex 13
and summarized below.
Estimated Total Project Cost
(1'000 and US$'000)
Category                              Local     Foreign      Total    FF.C /1
On Ranch Investments
Pasture Development                    1,178       1,522      2,700      56
Fencing                                  184         736        920      80
Watering Facilities                       48         162         210     77
Buildings                                252         113        365      31
Stock Handling                           370         356        726      49
Machinery and Equipment                  129         516         645     80
Veterinary Equipment                      31          35          66     52
Saddlery                                  28          18         46      40
Livestock Purchases                    5,133         361      5,494       7
Miscellaneous Items                      412         281        693      41
Subtotal                      7,765       4,100      11,865     34
Technical Services
Project Management                       988         545      1,533      35
Feasibility Studies                       17          50         67      75
Subtotal                      12005         595       1,600     37
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       8,770       4,695     13,465 /2  35
e
/1   Foreign Exchange Cost.
/2   Rounded to US$13.5 million.



*                                               - 13-
3.12      Costs have been estimated at prices that were current during
Project appraisal ar,d allowances of approximately 5% of the base-line
vehicle and equipment cost for the Management Unit have been made for
possible price increases. No other price or physical contingency has been
included because possible changes in unit cost would affect only the num-
ber of ranching enterprises that could be developed with the funds available.
D. Financing
3.13      The estimated Project cost of US$13.5 million would be financed
approximately as follows:
Participat-
IBRD    ing Banks  Government  Beneficiaries    Total
Category    Amount % Amount  %  Amount/1 %  Amount        %   Amount  %
(US$m)    (US$m)      (US$m)      (US$m)          (US$m)
Livestock
Develop-
ment         4.1  34   5.3   45   0.1    1    2.4         20    11.9 100
Technical
and Con-
sultant
Services     0.6  38   0.9   56   0.1    6       -       -       1.6 100
Total    4.7  35   6.2   46   0.2    1    2.4        18    13.5 100
3.14      As shown, the Project would be financed from four sources:  (a) the
IBRD loan of US$4.7 million would cover the foreign exchange component, or
about 35% of Project cost; (b) participating banks such as BNP, BDA and pri-
vate commercial banks would contribute about US$6.2 million, or 46% of Pro-
ject cost; (c) Government would make a grant of about US$200,000, 1/ or about
1% of Project cost, and (d) in accordance with current practice, benefici-
aries (dairy farmers, ranchers and asentamientos) would supply US$2.4 million
(cash or kind) equivalent to 20% of ranch/farm investments or 18% of total
Project cost. In addition, participating banks would provide short-term
loans to beneficiaries to cover their working capital needs, including pur-
chase of feeder steers to carry out approved investment plans. Assurances
to this effect, as well as in regard to financing arrangements, were obtained
during negotiations.
1/   Estimated at US$17,000 for livestock development, i.e., 20% of invest-
ment cost of the proposed purebred breeding centers to be established
at the MDA-operated vocational Agricultural School at Divisa and at
lo                 Buena Vista and Gualaca experimental stations; US$123,000 for salaries
of managers of asentamientos; and an additional US$60,000 for miscel-
laneous costs, rounded to US$200,000.



-14-
3.15       BNP would be the borrower, as it is under Loan 784-PAN, and would
bear the foreign exchange risk. It also would bear the local costa of
financing the Project Management Unit except technicians employed by other
participating banks who would be paid by such banks. The loan would be for
16 years, including a grace period of five years, which reflects the approx-
imate average time period for which long-term loans would be made and recover-
ed. 1/ During negotiations, assurances were obtained on these terms.
E. Procurement
3.16       Goods for new investments for development of livestock enterprises
would be acquired through existing commercial channels because the diversity
of items, small size of individual purchases, and need for free choíce by
the individual borrower as well as the dealers would make procurement through
international competitive bidding inappropriate. Panama has a good network
of dealers in agricultural inputs, competition among local suppliers is keen,
and facilities for maintenance and servicing of vehicles and machinery are
adequate.  Items such as fertilizer, grass seed, fencing, agricultural ma-
chinery and equipment, and vehicles are regularly imported from the United
States, United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, Costa Rica, and other Western
European countries and supplies are adéquate.  Vehicles for Project use, about
15, would also be obtained through commercial channels (with bids from at least         e
two suppliers) since purchases would be spread over three years between the
several participating banks and bulk procurement would be impracticable. No
country enjoys preferential tariff rates on any goods to be procured for the
Project. A list of the import duties of Project-related items is given in
Annex 14.
F. Disbursements
3.17       Disbursements would take about five years since the last sub-loan
commitments would be in Year-3. The annual phasing of investments and the
forecast of quarterly disbursements are shown in Annex 15.
3.18       The IBRD loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) livestock development - 45% of long-term loan funda
disbursed to beneficiaries by participating banks
(equivalent to about 35% of new investment costa);
and
(b) technical and consultant services - 75% of fixed expend-
itures for Project Management Unit staff - including
1/    Sub-loans made in Year-3 for 12 years would mature in Year-15.  One
year for slippage is allowed.



-15 -
Project Director, Dairy Husbandry Specialist, Agricultural
Economist, and Consultants; 100% international training
grants for Project staff, including livestock technicians;
and 80% of locally procured goods, e.g., vehicles and
offíce equiptment.
3.19      Disbursements for on-farm investments would be made against a certi-
ficate of expenditure approved by the Project Director or his appointed re-
presentative, indicating the type of investment, and, where possible, the
country of origin. The supporting documentation would not be submitted for
review, but would be retained by the borrower and kept available for inspec-
tion by the Bank. Disbursements for technical and consultant services,
including the purchase of vehicles and office equipment, would be against
normal documentation.
G. Organization and Management
3.20      BNP would administer the Project and execution would be the
responsibility of a Management Unit, which would be established for that
purpose. Basically, the Unit would be composed of a Project Director, an
Agricultural Economist, a Dairy Production Specialist, an administrative
assistant, and livestock technicians. The establishment of the Project
Management Unit and its composition and functions, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.21      The Project Director would be particularly concerned with technical
and financial viability of livestock development plans; he would be respon-
sible for training and supervising the livestock technicians and managers of
asentamientos and would assist in coordinating Project activities with an
on-going MDA/FAO Pasture and Forage Research Project. Also, he would assist
in arranging for the consultant services and in carrying out of the proposed
studies and programs (para 3.10).
3.22      The Agricultural Economist would assist the Project Director in
training the technical staff to assess the economic viability of investment
plans and to evaluate the impact of the Project on the economy. He would
also be responsible for training the technical staff to monitor and evaluate
Project results, and problems concerning prices and marketing would come under
his cognizance.
3.23      The Dairy Production Specialist would be particularly concerned
with execution of the dairy development component of the Project. Since
most of the dairy farms would be owned and operated by small producers, a
relatively high level of technical supporting services would be essential
to enable them to realize a reasonable rate of profitability. The specialist
would, therefore, work closely with the livestock technicians and participating
dairy farmers.



-16-
3.24       Appointments to the posts of Project Director, Agricultural
Economist, and Dairy Production Specialist by BNP would be subject to review
and approval of the Bank with respect to qualifications, terms of reference
and terms of employment. That the Project Director had been appointed would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. The Dairy Production Specialist and
Agrícultural Economist, however, could come into the Project at a later date,
but their appointment would be made within four months of the effective date.
BNP would contract the consultant services proposed in paragraph 3.10 to
carry out studies on tropical pasture development, animal fertility, and
livestock development on the Atlantic zone within 12 months of the date of
loan effectiveness, upon recommendation of the Project Director and with IBRD
approval of the terms of employment and qualífications of the consultants.
See Annex 16 concerning terms of reference and qualifications of key Project
Management Unit staff and the consultants. During negotiatioans, assurances
were obtained with respect to the above appointments.
3.25      BNP would cause fíve agriculture/livestock technicians to be made
available to the Project Management Unit within two months of loan effective-
ness. This number would gradually be increased to about 15 in Year-3. Par-
ticlpating financial institutions would be required to make livestock
technicians available to the Project Management Unit to assist sub-borrowers
in preparing their investment plans and loan applications, and, thereafter,
to help with the supervision functions.  BDA already maintains an adequate
technical unit, but commercial banks have to recruit additional staff. About
10 persons of the Project's technical staff would be approved by the Project
Director for special training programs. Assurances were obtained from BNP
during negotiations that the required number of livestock technicians,
suitable to the Project Director, would be provided by the participating
financial institutions.
H. Lending Policies and Procedures
3.26      As borrower, BNP would have a dual role -- it would be a channel
for the movement of IBRD funds to other participating banks and it would
be one of the participating credit institutions. As on-]ender of IBRD
funds, BNP would enter into agreements with other participating lending in-
stitutions, such as BDA and private commercial banks. It is, however, anti-
cipated that BDA's participation would be confined to the financing of the
small dairy farms (Model 1) and the smaller sized dairy/beef enterprises
(Model 2) and asentamientos (lodel 4). BDA's principal míssion is to help
small and medium size farmers, and, it would be authorized to imake loans
only up to US$12,000, but as BDA is not yet in operation (para 2.18), no
withdrawals frorm the Project account would be made to cover amounts disbursed
by BDA under sub-loans until the date upon which the Bank is satisfied with
the:  (a) opening balance sheet; (b) organization chart; (c) number and
qualification of its technical staff; (d) information on the auditor; (e)
statement on lending policies as approved by the Board of Directors; and
(f) forecast on lending and operational projections for the next five years.



-17-
Governnent would provide BDA with about US$1,000,000 equivalent of which
not less than US$200,000 would be provided in calendar year 1973. Assur-
ances were obtained on these matters. Based on an estimated participation
by BDA of about 15% in the lending program, this provision would enable BDA
to meet its counterpart contribution for on-lending to participating farmers.
Such funds would be held in a special trust account in BDA. Private banks
are expected to he interested in financing some of the large beef breeding
and fattening ranches (Model 3) and the purebred breeding centers (Model 5).
Such participation could account for about 10% of the total lending program,
while the balance, or about 75%, is expected to be handled by BNP. Although
BNP and BDA have the capacity to fully execute the lending program, a limited
participation by private banks may pave the way to a greater interest in
future development lending. On-lending terms between BNP and participating
banks for Bank funds would be 8% interest, with repayment periods equal to
those granted by participating banks to sub-borrowers. This would give BNP
a spread of 0.75% (assuming a 7.25% interest loan) to cover the commitment
fee on the Bank loan and administrative services for handling Project accounts.
For private commercial banks, the spread would be about 3%, assuming that aver-
age cost of capital (other than Bank funds) is around 6.5%. The financial
ímplications of the lending program are shown in Annex 17.
3.27       BNP and other participating lending institutions would receive
and process the applications and loans through their countrywide network
of offices.  These institutions would bear the full credit risk except for
asentamientos for whom Government would guarantee any losses to increase
the incentive to participating lending institutions to make such loans.
Applicants would be required to meet the creditworthiness criteria of the
lending institutions. Security for long-term development loans would in-
clude real estate mortgages on titled land as well as on lands for which the
borrower has filed an application with the Agrarian Reform Commission to
obtain full títle and on which no serious counter interests exist, and proof
of land right possession. If necessary, chattel mortgages on livestock and
equipment would also be accepted. Increased real estate value resulting from
ranch improvements would be reflected in the value established for collateral
purposes. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government
would guarantee loans made to asentamientos.
3.28       Participating financial institutions would extend loans to
ranchers/farmers and asentamientos to cover about 80% of total new invest-
ments for development, plus working capital raised from their own resources
when it was needed. The amount of loans would be predicated on the require-
ments shown in the respective ranch investment plans prepared by livestock
technicians and managers of asentamientos in conjunction with the applicant-
borrower. During the initial phase of Project implementation, loans would
be made only after plans were accepted by the Project Director but, as ex-
perience is gained, the Project Director could delegate authority for ap-
proval of investment plans to participating banks. Technical aspects of
ranch development plans, including measures for protection of animal health,
would not be altered by participating banks without the consent of the Project
Director, though they might be rejected for lack of applicants' creditworthiness.



-13-~~
Repayment terms for development loans would be flexible and would reflect
the forecast cash flow of the ranching enterprise to be financed. Terms would
range from seven to 12 years and would include grace periods of three to four
years. The interest rate paid by sub-borrowers would be at least 10% on out-
standing balances. No additional costs, such as application, inspection, or
com=itment fees, would be charged unless required by law, e.g., registration
of credit document and mortgage. Individual loans above US$100,000 would
require prior Bank approval. The lending terms and conditions are detailed
in Annex 18. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on these terms and
conditions.
3.29       To achieve the balance of inputs (physical inputs and breeding
cattle) needed for the expected rate of herd build-up, the amount of finance
for purchase of breeding stock under any investtment plan would not exceed
60% of the total loan (Annex 18). No such limitation would be applied for
the development of a purebred breeding center, such as Model 5 (para 3.08).
Assurances were obtained on this matter.
3.30       Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that livestock pro-
ducers participating in the Project would be required to take adequate
measures to control internal and external parasites of cattle and to vacci-
nate against infectious diseases when this is deemed necessary (para
2.11).
I. Accounts and Audit
3.31       BNP and participating institutions would establish and maintain
separate Project accounts, which would be audited annually and the certified
audítor's reperts submitted to the Bank within four months of the close of
the fiscal year (the fiscal year in Panama coincides with the calendar year).
3.32       Two Government and at least eight private auditing services are
available in Panaina. BNP is audited annually by the external Auditor General
and his services would be acceptable. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the Project accounts of both BNP and other participating in-
stitutions, as well as the financial statements of BNP as borrower, would be
audited,1 by an independent auditor acceptable to. the Bank and that the audited
report would be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the
end of the fiscal year of the participating institutions.
e



*                                                 - 19 -
IV. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01       Project production would be mainly fattened steers and milk, but
breeding heifers and bulls would also be produced to build up sub-borrowers'
herds. After herd stabilization, surplus breeding cattle would be sold to
livestock producers. During herd build-up, steers would be purchased from
available stock in the country and sold after fattening.  At full develop-
ment of the Project, beginning about Year-10, estimated incremental produc-
tion would amount to about 8,300 tons of carcass meat, which is approximately
30% of present total beef production, and 7,400 tons of milk, or about 10% of
present domestic production and about 17% of current milk and dairy product
imports.  Furthermore, about 8,500 breeding heifers and approximately 500
bulls would become avaílable annually. Annual production value would be about
US$10 míllion, which represents about 20% of Panama's total present value of
livestock production and the equivalent of the combined value of meat and
dairy product imports in 1970.
B. Markets and Marketing
4.02       With rising population and per capita incomes (paras 2.01 and 2.02),
local demand for meat ís expected to rise by about 5% annually. Since local
demand for mílk and dairy products is already high, considering sustained and
íncreasing imports, no problems are envisaged in marketing the products from
the Project (Annex 19).
4.03       Although the volume of exports, mainly to the US market, is
small in relation to the total beef supply, the trade has had a noticeable
effect on local price formation. Since 90% visible lean boneless beef
exported to the US brings about US$0.70 per pound (US$1.54 per kg) and
domestic demand is rising, local cattle farm-gate prices haye been forced
up, from about US$0.24 per kg in 1966 to about US$0.38 to US$0.40 per kg in
1971. Maximum retail prices for three main groups of comnon retail cuts
were established by Government in November 1970 (Decreto de Gabinete No. 60,
March 7, 1969) and prices for 1 kg of beef were fixed to range between
US$0.77 and US$1.32. Prices for the best quality cuts such as filet and
lomo and for offals were not affected.  The imposition of these controls
on certain cuts of beef also, indirectly, set a limit on the price that
butchers could afford to pay for live cattle, although, so far, producer
incentives have not been adversely affected. However, during negotiations,
assurances were obtained from Government that it would not establish or
maintain measures which would affect adversely the livestock sector with-
out a previous exchange of views with the Bank.



- 20 -                                             0
4.04       Average prices of milk to the producer in the Panaria City area
vary according to the season, the quantity of milk delivered by the pro-
ducer during the dry season, the relative proportion of the milk delivered
for industrial and fluid purposes, and the estimated transport cost. Actual
farm prices for Grade A fluid milk are, at present, around US$0.16 per liter.
The milk supply for the Canal Zone, however, comes from four particular herds
that meet the health requirements of the US Government and a farm price of
US$0.20 per liter is paid. Milk sold for processing, which represents
by far the major portion, has a uniform price throughout the year now
approximating US$0.10 per liter. Retail milk prices are fixed by Government
at US$0.27 per liter for Grade A and US$0.25 for good quality pasteurized
industrial milk. Wholesale prices are US$0.2 less per liter. Reconstituted
milk is also available at US$0.22 per liter, and milk imports now cost
about 20 to 30% more than locally produced industrial milk. In order to
discourage unnecessary imports, the price of skim milk powder and butter
oil imported for industrial use ís fixed by MDA at the domestic market
level.
C. Producer Benefits
4.05       Incorne to producers and financial rates of returns have been
estimated on the basis of budgets of illustrative models (para 3.03). Such
estimates show that, as a result of investing under the Project, participating
sub-borrowers could expect to achieve fair returns on their investment and
generate increments in income sufficient to encourage their participation
(Annex 20). Estimated financial rates of return would range between 15%
and 21% (Annex 21). Incremental net income for taxes and debt service would
range between US$250 on the small dairy farm (Model 1) and US$4,300 on the
medium-size breeding/fattening ranch (MIodel 3). The purebred breeding
center (Model 5) would realize about US$17,000. The following are summary
budgets for the models:
e



- 21 -
Incremental
Operating Taxes and  Debt    Net         Net
Income     Pees    Service Income    Income
     -               US$ Equivalent
Model 1- 20 ha
Pre-Development            600         10      -        590       -
Full Development         3,900        160    2,900      840       250
(year-6)
Model 2 - 100 ha
Pre-Development          2,200        180      -      2,020       -
Full Development         6,800        620    2,500   3,680      1,660
(year-9)
Model 3 - 400 ha
Pre-Development          4,800        530      -      4,270       -
Full Development        15,700      2,650    4,500   8,550      4,280
(year-9)
Model 4 - 400 ha
Pre-Development           (900)        90      -       (990)      -
Full Development        13,300      1,400    5,850   6,050      7,040
Model 5 - 400 ha
Pre-Development         23,900      2,860      -    21,040        -
Full Development        72,500    15,800   18,800  38,000    16,600
It is expected that sub-borrowers would be prepared to forego a fast increase
in income during the development phase in favor of rapid build-up of their
herds. Furthermore, a considerable amount of income after loan repayment
would be reinvested in further development.
4.06       The viability of the illustrative models has been tested as to
price and cost sensitivity under various assumptions. Results are shown
below:



-22-
Percent of Financial Rate of Return
-- Model --------------
Assumptions            1        2       3        4        5
1.  Actual Estimates      18       15      16       15       21
2.  Sale prices unchanged
Costs + 5%          17      15       13      14        21
3.  Sales prices + 10%
Costs + 10%         18      16       16      15        22
4.  Sales prices + 10%
Costs + 15%         17      15       16      15        22
The figures show that profitablity under different cost/price relations
would remain almost unchanged.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01       The Project would not only produce a favorable rate of return
to the economy, estimated at 15% (Annex 22), but it would also make a
significant impact on future development of the country's livestock industry.
Animal husbandry practices would be improved as would pasture management
and the level of technology; productivity would be increased; and better
quality breeding stock would become available for subsequent phases of
development. Furthermore, small viable dairy farms wouid be established
that could serve as patterns for further operations of that type, and
large-scale livestock production would be introduced on asentamientos, which
would have a beneficial effect on their development.
5.02       With GNP per capita in the agricultural sector being only about
US$300, compared with about US$900 in the non-agricultural sector a major
objective of Governnent is to pursue policies aimed at a more equitable
income distribution. The Project would contribute towards accomplishment of
this objective, since it is estimated that, at full development, the incomes
of about 350 small dairy producers and medium-size beef/dairy producers
participating in the Project would substantially improve (Annex 20). It is
also projected that about 300 families involved in asentamiento operationa
would improve their present standard of living about threefold. Furthermore,
it is estimated that there are about 1,000 jobs on sub-borrowerse enterprises
filled by family labor and members of asentamientos working at about 50% of
their potential capacity.  Since the capacity of these people would be fully
utilized at full development, the equivalent of 500 new jobs would, in actual
fact, have been created. In addition, about 130 jobs would be generated by
the Project that do not now exist.  Total employment impact would be the
equivalent of about 630 new jobs, plus incremental manpower requirements for           e
development and ancillary services, e.g., transport, processing, and trade.



- 23 -
5.03      A further benefit to the country would come in the form of
incremental returns to Government from taxes and fees, which would be about
US$400,000 annually at full development. This estimate is based on current
income and other Project-related taxes and fees.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(a)  that Government would:
(i)  grant US$200,000 te be used fot purebred breeding
centers at the Divisa Agricultural School and at
Buena Vista and Gualaca experimental stations and
salaries for managers of assentamientos included in
the Project (para 3.14);
(ii)  provide BDA with an amount equivalent to apprcximately
US$1 ,000,000 with an initial paymlent in calendar year
1973 of no less than US$200,000 (para 3.26);
(iií)  guarantee all loans made to asentamientos (para 3.27); and
(iv)  consult the Bank before taking or maintaining measures
that would adversely affect the livestock sector (4.03);
(b)  that Banco Nacional de Panama would:
(i)  contribute, together with other participating financial
institutions, about 46% of investment costs for ranch/
farm development (para 3.14) and, in addition, finance
short-term requirements for such sub-borrowers from
their own resources;
(ii)  bear the foreign exchange risk of the IBRD loan; bear
the local costs of the Project Managenent Unit; bear
the cost of technicians employed by it; and cause other
participating financial institutions to bear the cost
of technicians employed by them for Project purposes
(para 3.15);
(iii)  subject to the approval of IBRD, appoint a Dairy
Production Specialist and an Agricultural Economist
within four months of the date of loan effectiveness;
e



- 24 -
appoint a tropical pasture consultant, an animal
fertility consultant, and a consultant or consulting
firm to make a livestock development feasibility
study within 12 months of the date of loan
effectiveness (paras 3.10, 3.24);
(iv) ensure that the required number of livestock technicians
suitable to the Project Director were employed by
participating banks and provided for the Project
(para 3.25);
(y)  make loans to Project beneficiaries on terms and con-
ditions as indicated in Annex 18 (paras 3.28 aad 3.29);
(vi) have Project accounts and its own financial statements
audited by an independent auditor (para 3.32); and
(vii) not be eligible for withdrawals in respect of amounts
disbursed by BDA under sub-loans until the Bank is
satisfied with the financial structure, admin-
istration, personnel, auditing arrangements and lending
policies of BDA (para 3.26).
6.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that the borrower had:
(i)  established a Project Management Unit under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.20); and
(ii) appointed the Project Director acceptable to
the Bank (para 3.24).
6-.03     Wíth the above assurances, the proposed Project constitutes a
auitable basis for a Bank loan of US$4.7 million for 16 years, including five
years of grace. The borrower would be the Banco Nacional de Panama and it
ou1ld asaume the foreign exchange risk.
4r11 6, 1973



PANANA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOP>ENT PROJSCT
W~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~R-- and&                       o 2Lok ad. 1Fqpd P~c
Dyss ymilum E±      )
'7      IMPORTS (Cir value)  _                    EXPQRTS (FOB value)
1967    1 68   1969   1970   1971         19_67   in6  1J969   197-0  1971-
Total:                  250.6  266.3  305.4  357.0  390.8         85.2   93.8  108.8  106.3  114.0
Food Products           22.0   23.1   24.7   28.9   36.0          59.6   71.5   80.1   81.1   84.9
Slaughter Animals        9.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.0           0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Meat and Meat Producta   2.5    2.7    3.5   14.5    4.6          -1.3    1.7    1.3    2.2    1.3
MIlk and c.k Prodacta    3.1    3.2    3.3    4.1    5.0           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
1/  Preliz.
sOURCEs  c,ttraría Geweral de la RePublica, mirocil de Estaditica y Censo, Julg 1972-






PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product at Factor Costa, Distribution Between
col                                  Sectors, and Average fr.nual Compound Growth Ratea
H,                                              (In.millions of 1960 Balboas)
H
Value and Distribution               Average Annua3 Gro  Ratee
Sector Classification                  1960            1296            1971 -      1960 - 1971 -   1965 - 19711!
1. Primary Sector: Agriculture, 2/
Forestry, Fishing, and Mining -
a. Sector GDP                       96.8           133.9          170.5
b. Percent of Total GDP             23.3            21.7           17.5
c. Average Annual Growth Rate                                                      5.3%            4.1%
2. Sec9a9l-a  5ector:  Nnfacturíng,
Conñstructímo, Eletricity,
Gas, and Water
a. Sector GP                       85.8            147.5          259.8
b. Percent of Total GDP             20.6            23.9           26.7
c. Average Annual Gro  Rate                                                       10.6%            9.9%
3. Tertiary Sector: services,2/
Camerce,. and Baki]dng
a. Sector GDP                      233.2           335.9          541.3
b. Percent of Total GDP             56.1            54-4           55.8
c. Average Annual Growth Rate                                                      8.0%            8.3%
4. Total Groes Domestio Product at
Factor Costa  415.8           617.3    3     971.6
- óó                                            ~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~8.0%.  7.9%-
1/  Prelininary. 
2/  Mining represents,in 1960, Balboas 1.1 million;in 1965, 1.7; and in 1971, 2.6.
3/  IncludinR services to the Canal Zcne.



PANlAM
LIVESTOCK DEVILOPRT PROJECT
Groas Internal Product at !rktPricea fer the Avriculturali.
Forestr, and PieiA2 Sectoar
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii-  to I969
(In million  of 16 Ba2boaa)
DescrI2ion                             1960    1961    1962    1963     964    1965   1966    1967    1968    1969
Total Value of Agricultural,
Forestry, and Fi9hing Seotors ......2 .                                                      . 2   Wv 108.5 1     13. 3
Agricultural Sector  ................       900    99.5   101.3   107.0   110 8   125.0   1631.6            14J§. 10U.2
Banana sub-sector   ..............       18.5    21.1    19.3   21.4    21.9   30.5    33.9   36.0    41.5   45.1
Renainin  sub-sectors  ...........       71.5    78.4    82.0   85.6   88.9    94.5   97.7  101.3   104.5   110.1
Forestry Sector     ....................     0.5     0.6    _.7      0.8   _.8q   0.8    _...Q!d __U   &.2
Fishing Sector  .....................        5.2    -  .         5.7  5.6    6.9     6.4      6.9    7.4      7.2   - 7.2
1/ Preliud.nary estimates.
2/ Includes secondary activities.
SOURCE: Communication from Dirreccion General de Estadistica y CenaQ,
Controlaria General de la Republica, Rep blica de Panama, dated HMbch 3, 1971.



*                                                   e                                 Ii
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVEIDHMENT PROJECT
ulinber of Cattle, Andmals Slaughtered by Sex, Offtake Percentage
('000 of ALbuals)
ci.
Average Annual
_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - YEAR - - - - - - - - - - - - - -              Growth Ratea
\o                              1965      1966      1967      1968      1969       1970      1971           1965 1j971
Number of Cattle
Total:                  96.6  1.010.7   1.036.6   1.118.6   1.156.9   1,187.1   1.239.9                     4.2
Boca&a del Toro           8.4       8.7        9.1       9.1      11.8      12.1        6.9                -1.8
Coclé                    75.8      77.8       74.5      84.5      87.1      89.6      100.5                 4.8
Col6n                     9.0      10.4      13.0       14.6      11.4      13.7       17.4               11.6
Chtri ¿                 297.5     318.0     325.0      343.0    356.7      365.0      377.8                 4.2
Darien                    4.6        4.9       5.5       6.9       7.4        6i3       6.o                 4.6
Herrera                 123.5     128.0      130.1     140.0    147.7      J3. 9      126.3                 0.4
Los Santos              216.4     224.0    230.2       250.2     256.8     264.2      262.9                 3.3
Panana                   74.0      76.7       80.7      95.5    102.6      107.5      149.3                12.4
Veraguas                159.4     162.2     168.5      174.8    175.3      177.4      192.8                3.2
Cattle Slaughtered
Total:                  134.0      4.2   _148.4        153.4     164.1    173.3       184.6                 5.5
Male                     80.0      91.4       93.0      96.8      98.9     104.0      104.9                 4.7
Female                   54.0      52.8      55.4       56.6      65.1      69.3       79.7                 6.7
Offtake Percentage
Total:                   13.8      14.3       14.3      13.7      14.2      14.6       14.9
SOURCE: Contraloria General de la Republica, Direccion de Estadistica y Censo - Informa&ion Agropecuaria 1971.



PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ca
Number of Da±ry Cows by Province
PRO vNCE                 1963       1964       1965      1966       1967       1968       1969       1970
Veraguas               17,100     22,000    21,000    11,700       6,100      6,oo0      5,000      3,700
Bocas del Toro          2,100        600        400       500        100        200        200        200
Cocal                  13,600    141,200    13,400    10,000       8,400      8,700      8,500      6,600
Coln                   2,100      1,100        700       500      1,000        900        700        700
Chiríqud               31,300    36,0o0      42,600    29,600    24,300    25,900       28,600     22,300
Dar:án                    400        200        500        300       300        200        200         50
Herrera                17,400     20,200    20,900    22,300    25,800    26,I400    18,400        23,200
Los Santos             34,600    35,500    30j000    28,6oo    23,7C0        24,300     29,000    35,600
Panamáa                 9,300      9,800      9,500     7,100      5,800      7,200      6,500      6,100
TOTAL:           127,900   139,600   139,000   110,600    95,500    99,800         97,100     98,450
-===    ======    2===~==*    2*=       ===2    =2==          2S-=       ===
Average Milk Production
per Cow per Year          426        412        436       616        737        694        788        721
SOURCE: Contraloria General de la Republica, Direccíen General de Estadistico y Censo.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure, Agrarian Reform, Taxes, and ARricultural Services
A. Land Tenure
1.        The pattern of land holdings in Panama is not typical of the mini-
fundia-latifundia type comnonly found in large areas of other Latín American
countries. In 1970, according to the Agricultural Census, only about 12%
of the estimated 100,000 farms, occupying about 25% of the total agricul-
tural land, was held under legal title (Table 1). About 75% were farms
with an area up to 50 ha, operated on public domain and occupying about 50%
of the total land under possessory rights.
2.        It is estimated that, in the past two years, about 12,000 farmera
have applied for ownershíp titles and about 6,500 have obtained them, account-
ing for a total area of about 100,000 ha. More than 25% of these holdings
are under 20 ha in size and less than 3% are larger than 60 ha. Farmers
utilizing land under possessory rights have been reluctant to apply for legal
titles for fear of taxation, although land and income taxes, especially for
the smaller holdings, are moderate and, in general, reasonable.  A number of
them have proof of their rights of land possession, which is accepted as a
suitable guarantee for loans. Rent on land used under possessory rights is
practically negligible. Under current Government policy, taxes are paid
only on certain titled property but the Land Reform Commission (CRA) intends
to introduce them on a broader scale as cadastral and valuation data become
avaílable. See Appendix 1 for explanation for various types of land tenure.
B. Agrarian Reform
3.        In 1962, an Agrarian Code (Law 37, September 21, 1962) was approved
by the Government, forming the basis of the agrarian reform policy. The
Code's general obiective is to "transform the land tenure structure in Panama
in accordance with the social function and economic efficiency of the land
in exploitation" (neither of the terms, "social function" nor "economic effi-
ciency," is clearly defined by the Code). The CRA was created in 1963 but
had no significant effect on the development process within the agricultural
sector until 1969 since it concerned itself primarily with planning and pro-
graming, using data supplied by a Rural Cadaster, Natural Resources and Rural
Tax Administration Survey, financed by budgetary expenditures of US$2 million
and an AID loan of US$2.4 million. No gratuitous titling has been initiated
and the agency's policy of "title-through-purchase" has had only limited
acceptance for fear of property taxation, notwithstanding the low purchase
price of US$10 to US$100 per hectare and 20-year no-interest terms.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        In February 1969, CRA started a program to repossess unexploited
and tax delinquent private properties and has so far enjoyed considerable
voluntary participation by the affected landowners. Payment to the farm
owners is by 40-year Government bonds and land is assessed at about 80% of
its market value. Repossessed land is then resold in three or four years
to the squatters who have occupied it and who, in the meantime, have been
organized into land reform settlement enterprises (asentamientos) 1/ and
given training in improved production technology.
5.        CRA has focused most of its attention and effort on establishment
of asentamientos but, so far, only moderate progress has been made. By
July 1972, about 130 asentamientos, involving about 5,500 families and a
total of about 80,000 ha, had been established. The participants work to-
gether for three years and then decide on either cooperative or private
ownership of the land that forms the asentamiento. Technical assistance
and credit are made available to farmers in the asentamientos through the
Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario (MDA), and in the past year, approxi-
mately one-third of the asentamientos have been equipped with heavy agricul-
tural machinery and have been operated as collective farms under Government
sponsorship. In selected areas, such farms are achieving high grain yield
(rice and corn). Varying from earlier social welfare goals, Government now
intends to develop the majority of asentamientos ínto large-scale effective
agricultural enterprises, transforming them into production cooperatives
gradually. Government also finances about 80 technical managers to provide
advíce and guidance in operational and organizational matters on asenta-
mientos. About 15 asentamientos have livestock development programs and 20
are interested in developing livestock production on improved pastures.
C. Taxes
6.        Land property taxes are based on cadastral values and approximately
95% of all rural agricultural land is valued at US$30 per hectare. The
property tax, levied only on titled lands with a total cadastral value above
US$500, is progressive in design and nominal in amount, 2/ while income taxes
are based on a progressive scale, wíth substantial percentages at higher
levels. Asentamientos are exempt from property as well as income taxes.
A l0 adeductionfrom agricultutral income is allowed for land improvement
and, as an incentive to livestock producers, farmers are allowied to file
returns for livestock and other agricultural income. Milk producers pay a
tax of 1% of the sale value of their product. Animal slaughter taxes in
1/   Asentamientos are considered, according to Article A7 of the National
Constitution, as entities of public utility and social interest.
2/   Ranging between 3/4 of 1% to 1-1/2% of the cadastral value.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Panama City and Colon are US$4.50 per head, but in rural areas, they are
slightly lower, ranging between US$3.50 to US$4.00 per head. A tax of
US$1.50 per head is levied on the sale of an animal for non-slaughter pur-
poses.  Project-related items would be either exempt entirely from import
duties and taxes or amounts due would be very small.
D. Agricultural Services
Agricultural Research
7.        MDA is also responsible for livestock research.  It operates three
main field stations at Divisa, Gualaca, and Buena Vista but a shortage of
qualified staff and operating funds has limited the attention paid to live-
stock production and pasture management. An MDA/FAO Pasture and Forage
Research Project, however, ís screening both local and imported tropical
grasses and legumes, exploring soil fertility problems, and establishing the
technical and financial basis of intensive milk production based on improv-
ed pastures. The mineral and protein nutritional needs of local cattle are
also under investigation. The first phase of the project will terminate in
1973 and results so far indicate that it is technically feasible and eco-
nomically viable to improve pastures.  Information from the project would
e             be used in implementing the proposed Livestock Development Project.  Gov-
ernnent is convinced of the importance of applied research and wishes to
strengthen this aspect of the Republic's efforts to develop the livestock
subsector.
Education
8.        The University of Panama has recently established an agricultural
faculty which now graduates about seven to 11 students per year and a fur-
ther four graduates normally return each year from universities outside of
Panama. The first livestock specialists are expected to graduate in 1975/76.
Of the total of about 100 agronomists in Panama, 25 have specialized univer-
sity traíning in animal production, and, of these, 15 are located within
MAG. There is no veterinary school in Panama but 15 to 20 veterinary gradu-
ates return each year from uníversities in other countries.  MDA operates
a vocational agricultural educational institution at Divisa as a back-up
for the development extension crops, and annually, about 30 to 40 pupila re-
ceive diplomas. The University farm near Panama City is also commencing a
teaching and demonstration program on pasture development utilization.
Extension
9.        Agricultural extension services are provided mainly by MDA, whose
primary field officers are diploma graduates. These diplomates are located
throughout MDA's 53 field offices and supported at zonal level (there are
six zones) by agronomists, zootechnicians, and veterinarians.  MDA's vet-
erinary staff numbers 42. The Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA), and the main private banks also maintain



ALNNEX 5
Page 4
technical units, staffed by graduate agronomists, which supply supplemental
$ervices. IFE completed in 1972 a two-year contract with Latino consult, under
which substantial in-service training was provided to its technical staff.
Artificial Insemination
10.       Artificial insemination (AI) supplies are handled by private im-
porters. Larger daíry farmers maintain a liquid nitrogen storage unit that
is regularly "topped up" by the semen importer, both with nitrogen and
semen capsules. AI is undertaken either by the farmer or by a private Al
technician. A wide choice of bulls is available, but, as most cattle are
held by smaller farmers who do not use AI, the rate of improvement of dairy
cattle is slow and inadequate to meet the needs of an expanding dairy in-
dustry.
3
March 1973
e



c»
'-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure - 1970
Land WIth                               Use of Iand         Mixed Pattern
Total           Iagal Titles          Ieasehold        Without Iand Titles    of land Use
Province           Parms   Rectares   Farms   Hectares   Farms   Hectares   Parms   Hectares   Farms   Hectares
TOTAL ....   103,631  2,019,368  11,840   532,971   8,512    72,605    70,809   903,117   12,1470   510,675
'Rocas del Taro .....         925      46,164      116      5,075      149    29,168         544      5,290       U6       6,631
Cocle .........    15,303    228,897   1,093    44,880                523      6,763    12,219   116,165    1,468    61,089
Colon ..     ......        5,784    114,461       582    22,945       284        972      4,572    77,364        346    13,180
Chiriqui  ....   19,512    1421,268   1,968   113,983   1,248    18,894    13,756   143,891    2,540   114,500
Darien ......        O    1,291       23,324         9      4,1467     62        (a)      1,209    16,245          11     2,612
Herrera ...... *....    10,749    159,232   2,184    59,586   1,372            3,780      5,209    42,380    1,981k    53,486
Los Santos .8    .        12,1426 ¡  281,156   1,6541   58,955   1,886         2,707      6,559   126,372    2,327    93,122
Paa.ma .............1  14,842    311,371   2,1442   146,226           994      5,692    10,078   111,880    1,328    47,573
veraguas .... ^.2  X ¡ 22s799    4339495           ,  '  76,854   1,9Q 4       4,629    16,6&3   263,530    2,350    88,1482
(a)  No da.te 0 pr  ale ted.      -971
S0URCE:  AgrioiZ.tu¡a1 Zeou  - 1971                                                                                                  4p






ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Explanation of Various Types of Land Tenure
1.   Land with Legal Titles (Con Titulo de Proiedad)_ - Land titles are
granted by Reforma Agraria. Full ownership of land is proved, legal-
ized, and registered in tbe public office ("registro de la propiedad").
If the land is registered and the owmer has acquired the legal title,
all kinds of transactions can be performed related to such land. The
land title mnust show inter alia:  exact descrlption of property (size,
configuration, type of soil), cultivation (cropland, pastures -
cultivated or natural), and data such as boundaries, cadastral value
of property (base for tax purposes), amount, terms and priorities of
debts (lien on docum.ents), and all other types of restrictions (usufruct
and the like). Lsnd titles are fully mortgageable documents. If
property is not registered in the public office, its legal value
cannot be accepted by banks.
2.   Leasehold (Tondas en Arrendamíiento) - The lessee, through a contract
(condition, terms, timning), cedes certain land use rights to the lease-
holder. The ovnier can be the Government, a corporation, or a private
person.  Land use, renewal of leasehoid, tax payrment obligations, and
such are usually individually stipulated in the contract.
3.   Use of Land without Land Titles  Sín Titulo de Propiedad) - Represents
the usage of land without land title or leasehold for a continuous
period without an agreement between user and owner or without owner '8
permission. If land is used continuously on this basis for 15 or more
years, the user can apply to the Reforma Agraria for land title owner-
ship, following procedures as described in (1).
4.   Mixed Pattern of Land Use (Rajo Regimen Mixto) - This system is found
mostly on livestock ranches and is a mixture of various types of land
uses such as land contracted with legal title, leasehold of land with
titles, uncontracted land used without titles, land used without lease
contract, and land occupied without any legal right.
March 1973
e






ANNEX 6
Page 1
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
Introduction
1.        The banking and monetary system in Panama is uncharacteristic of
those of other Latín American countries. It has no separate central bank;
foreign banks dominate the private sector; the monetary system is closely
linked to the US dollar; currency is freely convertible; and there is a
heavy international-movement of funds into and out of the country. Political
events may also influence the flow of funds as was true in 1968 when major
political changes occurred.
Legal Framework
2.        The banking system is regulated by the Banking Law and Cabinet
Decree No. 238 of July 2, 1970 that became effective in 1971.  The Decree
reformed the banking system and created the National Banking Commission.
The Commission is authorized to administer the reform established by
Decree 238; it issues licenses for new banks; it supervises the banks'
operations; it proposes legislative and other measures necessary for
adequate functioning of the banking system; and administers the instruments
of monetary policy. The Commission ís composed of seven members appointed
by the President of the Republic. The Minister of Finance serves as Chairman.
Financial Institutions
3.        Financial institutions proviÇing usual banking services include
two public banks, a state development bank, and 19 private banks. Public
banks are Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP), which also acts as the Central
Bank, and Caja de Ahorros (Government Savings Bank); the state development
bank is the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA) 1/. The largest private
banks are the Chase Manhattan Bank, First National City Bank, Banco Fiduciario
de Panana, Banco de Colombia, and Bank of America. In total, there are 186
banking units countrywide, including head offices, branch offices, and agency
offices.  In addition, about 23 small finance companies and savings and loan
1/   Besides these, there are the following public financial institutions:
Instituto de Fomento de Hipotecas Aseguradas (Mortgage Institute);
Caja de Seguros Social (CSS) (Social Security System); and Instituto
para la Formacion y Aprovechamiento de los Recursos Humanos (IFARHU-
Hffman Resources Institute).



ANNEX 6
Page 2
associations make loans for housing, commercial, industrial, and personal
purposes. Furthermore, the banking network continues to grow--seven banks
haye been established since 1967 and six applications are pending with the
lational Banking Commission.
growth of the Banking System
4.        In terms of credit to the private sector, the banking system has
averaged an expansion rate of nearly 20% annually during 1967-71 (US$230
to 525 million). In terms of total deposits, the average annual growth rate
during this period has been about 30% (US$270 to 945 million).  The composi-
tion of deposits 'between foreign and domestic sources has fluctuated, but,
on average, has been about 55% foreign and 45% domestic. This strong growth
rate is due in part to the free movement of capital and a rising economy.
Scope of Lendíng
5.        Lending by the banking system in Panama is for the usual mix,
l.e., agriculture, commerce, industry, housing, and consumption.  In addition,
there is a large component to the external sector, which is import/export
trade largely in the Canal free trade zone.  Credit has expanded at an
annual average rate of 30 to 35% since 1967, but the largest increase                      e
occurred in 1971 when it grew about 45% over 1970. The largest recipient of
credit is the commercial sector, receiving 35 to 40% of the total. Although
agriculture accounts for about 20% of GDP, it receives less than 5% of
ínstitutional credit (Table 1).
ieserves aud Invterest on,Dps
6.        Private banks are required to hold in their safes at any time
tnot less than 6% of time deposits and 12% of sight deposits. BNP's
teserves are covered by a different regulation.
7.        Private banks pay 4-1/2% on savings deposits and 6-1/2% on 30-day
time deposits up to US$14,000, with no limit above this amount.  Reportedly,
one foreign bank pays 9% and lends through finance holding companies at 13
to 14%. Government banks (BNP and Caja de Ahorros) pay 5-1/2% on savings
deposits and 6-1/2% on time deposits. IFE could not accept deposits.
hgriculture Credit
B.        Institutional credit to the agricultural sector comes mainly
from Banco Nacional de PanaTna (BNP), Instituto de Fomento Economico (IFE),
now BDA, and a limited number of private banks, of which the main ones are
Bank of America, First National City Bank, and Chase Manhattan Bank.
9.        Although total institutional credit granted to the agricultural
sector increased about 2-1/2 times between 1967 and 1971, its share to
total lending declined from 6.6% to 3.6% during this period. Increasing



ANNEX 6
Page 3
annual volume is principally the result of increased involvement of the
private banks in short-term financing of cattle purchase and fattening
operations and in the market financing of agricultural products (coffee and
sugarcane). Annual volume of loans granted by the private banks increased
from about US$17 million in 1967 to US$43 million in 1971, as compared
with US$5 million to US$11 million for Government finance ínstitutions. The
following table gives a summary of credit to agriculture by principal sources
and a comparison with total lending:
1967                     1971
Credit Granted           Credit Granted
All    Agriculture       All    Agriculture
Principal Sources               Sectors      Sector      Sectors      Sector
---(US$ Million) ---------------
Private Banks                   276          17         1.375         43
Government Institutions          53           5         0.138         11
Total                  329          22          1.513         54
The above figures for agriculture credit include general agriculture,
livestock, fish, and forestry subsectors. There has been a shíft, though,
away from general agriculture to more credít for the livestock subsector.
10.       Interest rates of private banks range from 9 to 11% per annum.
Additional charges for loan processing, commitment fees, inspection fees,
and loan registration result in an effective rate of 10 to 12%. Effective
interest rates from BNP are 9 to 10%. Loan terms are classified as short,
up to two years; medíum, over two and up to five years; and long, over five
and up to 10 years. The bulk of the credit is classified as short term,
but, actually, a substantial amount is rolled over, partitcularly by the
private banks, resulttng in medíum- and long-term credíts.
11.       Collaterals are in the usual forn - mortgages on titled land or
on land for whích title ts being processed (BNP takes the latter form of
security) and chattels on livestock and machinery. Land tenure is a
serious constraint for long-term lending though since only about 25%
of the arable land in Panama ts titled.
International Finance to Agriculture and Llvestock
12.       Finance has come from two bilateral sources, IDB and USAID.  IDB
has provided funds to IFE and BNP, whereas USAID asststance has been to
Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario (MDA). These funds are shown in the
following table:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
---(US$ Million)----
Amount   Counterpart    On-Lending
Bilateral Source                of Loan      Funds        Institution
IDB - 109TF                       2.5         1.5             IFE
IDB - 13 SF                       2.9         2.7
IDB - 240SF                       3.3         1.7
IDB - 241SF                       3.1         1.0
Subtotal                    11.8        6.9
IDB - 135/OC,                     1.5         2.5             BNP
IDB - 112/SF                      2.i0        0.5
Subtotal                     3.5        3.0
IBRD - 784PAN                     3.4         2.0             BNP
USAID - (1965)                    1.5        n.a.           MDA/BDA
USAID - 034 (1969)                1.8        n.a.
Subtotal                    3.3                 
TOTAL                           122.         11.9
All loans except IDB 240SF (to IFE) are disbursed. About US$1 million remains
in that account for agriculture/livestock loans and marketing infrastructure.
An interim loan of US$1.3 million was recently approved by IDB to fill a gap
in IFE's lending program (now BOA), and a new loan of about US$8 million is
planned for late 1973.  USAID i8 considering a US$7.7 million loan for a
Small Farmer Improvement Project, of whích US$3.7 million ls identified for
credit and technical assistance for small (marginal) producers. As with its
previous two credit projecta (1965 and 1969), the funds would be administered
by MDA through its Department of Credit. BDA will handle the disbursements
and collections, for which it receives 3% on anount of funda handled.
13.       Of further interest la an innovative US$6 million program of
credit that MDA instituted in 1972. The program was funded by a consortium
of credit:  US$1.2 million from Government; US$2.7 million from 13 private
banks; US$1.5 million suppliers' credits (fertilizers and insecticides); and
US$0.6 million rollover fundo from previous USAID loans. Government guarantees
the banks' contribution at 9% interest per annmun. Loans to farmers are made
at 8% interest, Governmeúet paying; the 1% differential out of its contribu-
tion. BNP handles the funds, i.e. diabursements and collections, and receives
1-1/2% as a trustee fee.
14.       In summary, although there are several lines of institutional
tural credit, only 10% of all farmers receive any.                                         e



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP)
15.       The Banco Nacional de Panama is a Government-owned finance insti-
tution that serves as Government's fiscal agent, with limited central
banking functions in addition to its widely spread banking activities as
the country's leading comercial bank.  The Bank's history dates back to
1904, when it was established as a mortgage bank (Banco Hipotecario y
Prendario), and to 1911 when it took its present name and scope of operations.
It was further reorganized in 1956 under Organic Law No. 11.
16.       Administration.  Under the General Manager, the work of BNP is
divided into five departments: Credit, Operations, Administration, Legal,
and Controller, each headed by an Assistant of the General Manager. Under
the manager of Credit, four banking departments (Bancas) divide BNP's credit
operations by sector:  Agriculture, Mortgage, Conmmercial and Personal Credit,
and Industrial (Organization Chart). Countrywide, BNP has 34 branches
supervised by three Regional Managers. The Headquarters is in Panama City.
17.       BNP has a staff of 975, classified as follows:  59 executive and
supervisory; 235 professional; 536 clerical and office personnel; and 116
maintenance and general service.  The professional staff is classified as
follows: 23 technical (17 agriculturalists); 176 financial, including
financial analysts (5), accountants, auditors, and bookkeepers; four econo-
mists; and 32 administrative.  Within recent years, BNP has improved the
quality of key professionals through recruitment, but more will be required
for appraising development projects.
18.       Capital Structure.  BNP's average annual growth rate of assets
between 1967 and 1971 has been about 13% and likewise its liabilities.
Capital and reserves (equity) increased at a lesser rate, being about 9%
during this period. As of December 21, 1971, total assets stood at US$137
million--liabilities, US$122 million, and capital and reserves, US$15 mil-
lion. BNP1s balance sheets from 1967 to 1971 are shown in Table 2. The
Balance Sheet as of the latter date is summarized below.
e



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Assets                          (US$ Million)
Cash                                            12.6
Cash - local and foreign banks                  12.9
Clearings - branches and agencies                4.3
Loans                                           86.5
Investments and Bonds                            2.8
Buildings and Equipment (net)                    2.6
IMF                                             12.0
Other assets                                     3.0
Total Assets                              136.7
zac_
Liabilities
Sight Deposits                                  61.6
Time Deposits                                   33.1
Foreign Banks - overdrafte                       5.0
Foreign Loans                                    3.7
IMF                                             13.5
Deferred Liabilities                             5.4
Total Liabilities                         122.3
Capital and Reserves
Capítal                                         12.0
Reserves and Provisions                          :2.4
Total Capital and Reserves                 14.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES, CAPITAL AND RESERVES        136.7
19.       As of the end of 1971, liabilities were about 90% of assets; the
debt/equity ratio was 8.5:1. Thií ratio has weakened, though, since 1967
when it was 7.2:1. The present ratio, however, is satisfactory, given
that BNP is a Government bank. Excluding the IMPF contingent liability,
BNP's liabilities are composed of nearly 90% of sight and time deposits. Of
deposits, about 30% are interest-free Government sight deposits, which is a
favorable source of capital.
20.       EarninSs Record..  BNP's income statements from 1967 to 1971 are
given in Table 3. The following gives a comparison of operating results
between 1967 and 1971:
e



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(US$ Million)
Income                             1967          1971
Interest                           3.723         5.935
Loan charges and fees              0.845         1.297
Foreign Exchange                   0.059         0.078
Miscellaneous                      0.140         1.318
Total Income                  4.759         7.628
Expenses
General                            2.624         4.135
Administrative                     1.326         2.541
Total Expenses                3.950         6.676
Net Income                         0.809         0.952
Average Loan and Investment
Portfolio                       49.3          75.6
21.         Net incuLie yielded a return on average loan and investment port-
folio of about 1.6% in 1967, declining to about 1.3% in 1971.  Expenses
as a ratio of average loan and investment portfolio increased from 8% in
1967 to 8.6% in 1971. BNP increased its interest rates twice since 1967
(7 to 8% 1967 and 8 to 9% mid-1971), which will have some effect on increasing
its income. Rowever, BNP needs to closely examine its high administrative
costs and financial operations to reverse the downward trend of profitability
and liquidity.  Recently, a consultant firm 1/ completed a management and
operational study of the Industrial Credit Department, which also should
be relevant to other departments. Financial forecasts are given in Tables
4 and 5, but these show little change from the present situation.
22.       Lending Operations.  BNP is taking an increased interest in expand-
ing ita loans for agricultural and industrial development programa. (IBRD
granted Loan 784-PAN for US$3.4 million for a Fisheries Project in 1971.)
Hlowever, its lendíngs so far have been directed mainly to commerce and
personal uses (consumption) (Table 6). The distribution of BNP's loan
portfolío at the end of 1971 is ahown in the following tabulation:
1/   Peat, Msrwick and Mitchell, U.S.d



ANNEX 6                    E
Page 8
Sector                          Value of Loans   % of Total
(US$ Million)
Commerce                             21.6              25
Personal                             20.3              24
Agriculture and Livestock            13.5              16
Housing and Construction              9.1              10
Industry                              3.5              4
Other                                18.3              21
Total                           86.3            100
23.       In numbers, agriculture/livestock loans have not increased
appreciably, but in size, the average amount has increased from about
US$2,200 in 1967 to US$4,200 in 1971. Nearly 90% of credit is now to the
livestock subsector.  Although BNP has no minimum or maximinum loan limits,
it is endeavoring to give fullest attention to those over US$5,000. The
distribution by loan period is about 10% short term, 75% medium term, and
15% long term, the latter being only IDB project loans extending from five
to eight years.
24.       Past-Due Loans.  The most serious problem of past-due loans is
in the category of commercial and personal credits, which account for about
80% of total amount in arrears. The following comparison shows the amount
and percentage of past-due loans by principal sector of lending as of
December 31, 1971:
(US$ Million)
Loans      Anount       % of Portfolio
Sector               Portfolio   Past Due          Past Due
Commerce/Personal       41.9         3.2              8
Agriculture              13.5        0.4              3
Housing                  9.1         0.4              4
Total              64.0         4.0              6
The trend of past dues has been downward, decreasing frorm about US$4 million
at the end of 1970 to US$3 million as of May 30, 1972. A 3% rate in agri-
cultural credits is good.
25.       Collaterals.  For real estate nortgages, the loan may not exceed
60% of the appraised value. However, proposed investments to be financed
by a loan may be reflected in the appraisal value. Collateral value of
chattels ranges from 70% of current commercial value for breeding stock, to
60% of new machinery, to 50% of used machinery.  These are reasonable limits.
26.       Auditing.  BNP is under continuous audit by its own audit division               E
composed of 20 auditors. Seven of the auditors are attached to branch



ANNEX 6
Page 9
offices, but more ore needed to adequately cover 36 offices. A general
audit is made at least once annually. As usual for a Government bank, BNP
is subject to an independent external auditor, which ie the Auditor General.
He has a staff of 10 auditors, five of whom have the equivalent of a Cer-
tified Public Accountant degree. The Auditor General also i short of staff,
usually requiring about six mnonths to complete an audit of BNP. At least
eight commercial auditing firms, both Panamanian and foreign, operate in
Panama.
27.       Loan Approval Authorities.  Loans may be approved in accordance with
the following schedule:
(a) Board of Directors: operations exceeding B 250,000.
(b)  Credit Comittee:  operations up to B 250,000.  This
Committee shall be composed of the General Manager,
the Executive Credit Manager, the Credit Manager and
Manager of the Bank who is handling the application,
and the Chief of the Legal Department.
(c) General Manager: up to B 100,000; B 50,000 unsecured;
B 100,000 secured.
(d) Executive Credit Manager: up to B 50,000; B 25,000,
unsecured; B 50,000 secured.
(e)  Regional Comíttee:  up to B 25,000.  This Committee
shall be composed of the Regional Manager, the
Manager of the Branch, and one other official appointed
by the Regional Manager.
(f) The limits applicable to Managers and Assistant Managers
and Branch Managers and Assistant Managers shall be
laid down by the General Manager, direct.
Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA)
28.       BDA, recently founded by Cabinet Decree 1/, is an autonomous Gov-
ernment agency, annually receiving national budget support. Its legal re-
presentative, as well as Chairman of the Board of Directora, is the Minister
of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MDA). The other four Board members
are:  (a) the Minister of Commerce and Industry; (b) the General Manager of __
BNP; (c) one representative of farmers association; (d) one representative of
the farmers not members of associations.
29.       Administration.  BDA le administered by its Board of Directors and
a General Manager, appointed by the President of the Country.  The incumbent
e              Manager was the Instituto de Fomento Economico's (IFE) General Manager for
about four years and he has had about 25 years of experience in agriculture
credit, not only in Panama, but also in Central America where he was in charge
1/   Law No. 13, January 25, 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 10                       1
of agricultural credit for the First National City Bank for a number of years.
During his tenure with IPE, he instituted many sound operational procedures
that upgraded the Institute's image. IFE also had a good countrywide network
of regional offices which have now been handed over to BDA. Communication is
almost instantaneous between these offices and headquarters vía a modern
ra dio telephone system.
30.       Operations.  BDA's principal objective will be to execute the credit
policy for the agricultural sector established by MDA, directing its work
principally to supervised lending to (a) small farmers' associations and
cdoperatives; (b) small and medium size farmers; (e) agro-industrial projects
sponsored by MDA; (d) county and local governments (Juntas Comunales), which
have agriculture, fishery, livestock, and agro-industry activities; and (e)
any person whose production activity is in accordance with MDA's economic
policy.
31.       With respect to the Project, BDA will use the IFE-trained staff
group that provided technical assistance for livestock development. The
group was formed in February 1970, received extensive training from the
Argentinían firm, Latinoconsult, and, although small in number, provided
an effective service to ranchers from the elementary stage (e.g., teaching
r*nchers how to build fences) to more advanced levels of pasture development
and maintenance and modern animal technology.  The staff consisted of 16
t.chnicians who ranked in education and experíence from Ingenieros Agronomos
to young men reared on ranches.  The system worked well and could be a
pOttern for the technical services envisaged under the Project.
32.       Financial Condition.  BDA's resources will come from (a) interest
from lending; (b) Government grants; (c) issue of bonds; (d) loans from
other institutions; (e) funds raised by MDA's Marketing Department; and
(f) IFE's assets and equity, except those belonging to the Development
Department and Real Estate Department, which were transferred to MDA to
perform the marketing function formerly undertaken by IFE.
33.       IFE's credit portfolio was US$16.1 million equivalent in 1971, and
approximately 80% of IFE's credit to farmers was supported by IDB loans.
As of the end of 1971, IDB projects accounted for nearly 10,000 loans, in
the amount of US$12.7 míllion.  The size of loans financed increased from an
average of US$600 to US$1,500 under the first project in 1962 to an average
Of US$4,000 to US$5,000 under the last project (241SF). BDA's opening
balance is not available yet, but, based on IFE's informiation, it is
expected to show a stringent liquidity position so that BDA would be able
to participate in the Project only lf Government provided counterpart budget-
áry support.
34.       EDA's participation in the Project would also be subject to Bank
satisfaction with further information on auditing, management, detailed lend-
ing policies, financial structure, administration, and personnel.
March 1973



PANA
¡                                                                 LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Portfolio of Banking SYstem by Sector
(US$ Million Equivalent)
1967                                1971                       Annual Average 1967-71
N                                        Private   Government                Private   Government                 Private   Government                 % of
Banks      Banks       Total        Banks       Banks       Total        Banks       Banks       Total        Total
A. LOAN PORTFOLIO
At End of Year
Agriculture   1/                 15           7          22           37          13          50           24           9          33           6
Commerce                         94          23         117          262          33         295          164          26         190          37
Industry                         16           4          20           34          4          38            24           4          28           5
Rousing                           8          24          32           27          30          57           15          25          40           8
Other Construction                3           6           9           26           7          33           11           6          17           3
Personal Consumption             18          13          31           36          24          60           23          16          39           8
External Sector                  30           -          30          375           -         375          158           -         158          30
Miscellaneous                     2              /        2           12          18          30            5          10          15           3
Total                           186          77         263          809         129         938          424          96         520         100
B. VALUE OF LOANS
Granted During Year
Agriculture    1/                17           5          22           43          11          54           25           7          32           4
Commerce                        173          21         194          491          37         528          285          26         311          42
Industry                         26           2          28           74           2          76           40           2          42           6
Rousing                           5           6          11           21          17          38            9           9          18           2
Other Construction                3           4           7           33           5          38           17           3          20           3
Personal Consumption             30          14          44           54          29          83           33          20          53           7
External Sector                  20           -          20          647           -         647          248           -         248          33.
Miscellaneous                     2           1           3           13          37          50            6          14          20           3
Total                           276          53         329        1,376         138       1,514          663          81         744         100
Source:  Office of Statistícs and Census, General Controller                                                                                       -
1/  Includes agriculture, lívestock, fish and forestry.
2   Less than US$1 million.



PANAM
LIVESTOCK. ElETfrlP nNT EBOjECT
BNP - Condensed Annual Balance Sheet
December 31. 1967-71
>E                                                   (US$  Million Equiva ent)
1967         196B         1%9           1970         1971
ASSET8 
Caah                                                 6.4           7.6          8.2          12.1         12.6
Cash - Local and Foreign Banks                       8.0          10.0         14.2           8.2         12.9
Clearings - Branches and Agencies                    2.2           3.4          3.7           4.6          4.3
Loans                                               49.7          48.6         52.1          62.9         86.5
Investments and Bonds                                1.7           0.9          2.7           2.9          2.8
National Governent Loans                                                       22.2
Agriculture Producto                                               0.2
Buildings and Equipment <Net)                         2.2          3.6          2.5           2.4           2.6
INP (Contingent asset)                               2.9           2.9          7.3          12.6         12.0
Deferred and Other Assets                            1.3           1.2          2.5           1. 0         3.0
Total Assets                                        74.4          78.4        115.4         106.7         136.7
LIABILITIES
Sight Deposíta                                      41.9          38.7         50.7          42.7          61.6
Tine Deposita                                        19.1         25.2         22.9          23.9          33.1
IDB Loans                                            1.7           2.1          2.6           2.9           3.7
Foreign Bank Loans                                                              17.5          2.0           5.0
IMP (Contingent Liability)                                                                   13.1          13.5
Deferred and Other Liabilities                        2,6          3.6           7.7         -8.5           5.4
Total Liabilities                                    65.3         69.6        101.4          93.1         122.3
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                               7.3          7.3          12.3         11.5          12.0
Reserves and Provisiona                               1.8          1.5           1.7          2.1           2.4
Total Capital and Reserves                            9.1          8.8          14.0         13.6          14.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                          74.4         78.4         115.4        106.7         136.7
Source: BNP



*                                                       e                                                       e
e:                                                            PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BNP - Comparative Income Statements, 1967-71
(US$ '000)
1967          1968          1969           1970          1971
INCOME
Discounts                                                272           212            223           171            278
Interest Earned                                       3,723          3,382         4,120          4,885         5,935
Commission and Other Charges                             748           717           974          1,106         1,370
Subtotal                                              4,743          4,311         5,317          6,162         7,583
Other Income                                              15            16             15            22             44
Total Income                                          4,758          4,327         5,332          6,184          7,628
EXPENSES
Interest and Financial Expenses                          774         1,013         1,068          1,180         1,842
Administration and General Expenses                    3,137         3,195         3,323          3,809         4,781
Subtotal                                              3,911          4,208         4,391          4,989         6,623
Other Expenses                                            39            28             30            33             53
Total Expenses                                        3,950          4,236         4,421          5,022         6,676         E
NET INCOME                                                 808            91            911         1,162            952
Source: BNP - Department of Investigations and Economics



PANAMA
e                                                  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BNP   - Balance Sheet Prolections, 1972-80
(US$ Million  Equivalent)
1972          1973          1974          1975          1976          1977
ASSETS
Cash                                  14.1          15.8          17.6          19.8          22.1           24.8
Cash - Local and Foreign Banks        14.4          16.2          18.1          20.3          22.7           25.4
Clearings - Branches & Agencies        4.8           5.4           6.0           6.8            7.6           8.5
Loans and Investments                100.0         112.0         125.5         140.5         157.4          176.3
Buildings and Equipment                 2.9          3.3           3.7           4.2            4.6           5.2
IMF (Contingent Asset)                12.2          12.5          12.7          12.9          13.2           13.5
Deferred Assets                        3.3           3.7           4.1           4.6            5.2           5.8
Total Asset§                         151.7         168.9         187.7         209.1         232.8          259.5
LIABILITIES
Sight Deposits                        69.5          78.6          88.8         100.3         113.3          128.1
Time Deposits                         37.4          42.3          47.8          54.0           61.0          68.9
IDB  and IBRD Loans                    4.1           4.6           5.3           5.9            6.7           7.6
Foreign Bank Loans                     5.6           6.4           7.2            8.1           9.2          10.4
IMF (Contingent Liability)            13.8          14.1          14.3          14.7          14.9           15.2
Deferred and Other Liabilities         6.1           6.9           7.8           8.9           10.0          11.3
136.5         152.9         171.2         191.9         215.1         241.5
Capital
Capital                               12.5          13.1          13.4          14.0          14.5           15.0
Capital Reserves                       2.7           2.9           3.1           3.2            3.2           3.0    >
Total Liabilities and Capital        151.7         168.9         187.7         209.1         232.8          259.5   < x
Source:   BNP
e                                                     e                                                       e    



y                                                         PANAMA
oQ
rt                                            LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT ?ROJECT
BNP - Annual Earnings Projections 1972-77
(US$ Million Equival.ent'
1972         1973          1974          1975         1976          1977
INCOME
Commissions                   0.9           1.0          1.0           1.1           1.2           1.3
Commitment Charges            0.3           0.3          0.4           0.4           0.4           0.5
Interest                      6.3          6.8           7.4           8.1           8.8           9.6
Foreign Exchange              0.1           0.1          0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1
Legal Fees                    0.1          0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1
Appraisal and Inspection
Fees                         0.1           0.1          0.1           0.1           0.1           0.1
Rent                              1/            1/            1/           1/            1/            1
Miscellaneous                 0.3           0.3          0.3           0.3           0.3           0.3
TOTAL INCOME                  8.1           8.7          9.4          10.2          11.0          12.0
EXPENSES
General                       4.7           5.2          5.7           6.3           6.9           7.8
Administration                2.5           2.6          2.6           2.7           2.7           2.8
TOTAL EXPENSES                7.2           7.8          8.3           9.0           9.6          10.6
NET INCOME                      0.9           0.9          1.1           1.2           1.4           1.4
tD1C
1 /T.QQc 1-ban TTQ:41 -íll 1;^,'



PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
BNP - Loans Granted by Sector, 1967-71
Other          Personal
Total        Agriculture C- Commerce        Industry     RousInR      Construction      Consuaption      Other
1967 No.
($ '000)        24,182          2,325         3,855            200          244           198            17,195           165
43,170         5,252         16,640          1,892       1,404          3,790            13,620           572
1968 No.              13,379         1,431          2,169            142         191            166             9,160           120
($ '000)        43,077          6,875        18,629          2,096        1,043         3,053             8,723         2,658
1969 No.             33,030          1,769          2,293.           121         166            172            28,426            83
($ '000)        74,789          6,257        17,318          1,142        1,343         2,340            19,794        26,595
1970 No.              50,204         2,602          3,484            117         156            161            43,586            98
($ '000)        56,044          6,370        22,093          1,004        1,465         2,237            20,722         2,154
1971 No.             47,879          2,646          3,454            109         185            244            41,094           147
($ '000)       114,261         11,239        32,832          2,341        1,304         4,905            23,947        37,693
1/  Including cattle and-livestock                                                                                                  i
Source:  BNP - Department of Investigations and,Economica



LIVITCESé   DRVfL~   Fi«lJECT
cn                                                                                                              Modal 1 - Sll DirTy  Fr  - 20 ha
a,                                                                                                                 Eet*.ate of Iestme_nt Cost
<_5 .a(S v4leat)
P It A S a D    I1 y y o   T r N   11 y* S
-------------- TOTAL 00ST.... ----------
------------ Total Coat  ----- ---                     Foreigo                 no. of                                 no, on
no. of           Uait                           Porn                                       g                   Uite                .ount              Uetta               Aout
Iovestnt Ite                        Unita            Coar           Local            xh                 Total                 Coat                 ---------  er 1  -------               y.er 2  -------
pastures
Clearine  ...........................                  15 ha            50            600                 150               750                 20                     10 ha              500                  5ha                 250
Eatabliso et .1                 5                         ha            30             90                360               450                  s0                     10 ha              300                  5 ha                150
tlaíoteoance.15 ha........................                              20             60                 240               300                 80                     -                    -                 15ha                 300
Stndard Type Fencing          22 k.                                    350            140                560               700                  80                      2 k.              700                  -                    _
S.bdivieioí~l - Elactrio                                2 k.            50             20                 80                100                 so                      1 k                50                  1                   50
Vaterinea Facilities
Supply..               -                               .........................-      20                 80                100                 o0                     -                    -                                      100
Boildilga
Dairie. sd Calf Shed.                                   1            1,800            900                 900             1,800                 50                      1                1,800
Stock nDdíling
Corralm ond Croahes           _                                          -             160                 40               200                 20                     _                    _                                      200
Spray R.cera..            _                            ...................             100               400                500                 80                     -                   500
Loading Ra                        .- -                                                 100                 -                100                  -                     -                    -                  -                   100
Marhiner,v od Equi.aot
Tractor, Plough &  e       ..rr   .                    t15            6, 000           200              1.000             1,2QO                  SO                   1/5                1,200-
Fertilizer Spreadar                                   1/5                800            30                f30               160                  80                   1/5                  160
Rotary Cotter .-......-1/5                                            1, 200           40                 200               240                  80                   1/5                  240
Trailer  ............. ...............                1/5                800            30                130               160                  80                    1/5                 160                  -
Hilking Stalla (T.o Stad).                            1/5                750            30                120               150                  80                   1/5                  150
tfilk-ñ ndiing-Cooling Equip.nt                       1/5              1,000           40                 160               200                  80                                         -                                      200
Vyterinary E4uip_nt
Sena. Contadoer & A.1. Eq uip_et.                     1/2               400            40                 160               200                  80                    1/2                 200
A.1. Traoineg Course                          _                          200           160                 40               200                  20                     -                   -                                      200
Veterioary Tool          . _..                                                          10                 10                20                  50                     -                   20                  -
Sarn (Fro .) . .                 .30                                      10           120                180               300                  60                     10                I1O                 21                   200
S~ddlery                                                   -                -              20                 -                  20                 -                      -                   20
Li,estock
B11 - Local..                             _  _                      _   _    _ _..
Dairy Cow  - Local ..................                   15               300        4,500                  -              4,500                  -                      10               3,000                                   1,500
Miecellaaoue Ita                                           -                -             490                460                950                 50                     -                   400                                     55D
TOTAL                                                                      7.900              5.400             13.300                 38                     -                 950                                    3.800
51



Table 2
PANANA
IVBTOCK DEVELOPENT PROJBOT
Model 1: S¡all DairY Farm
Hord Dovelosent ProjeCtion
Before       -----------  End of Yer ---- -------------
Clteg                        Devloinent       1       2       ]                        6-20
ird ICorDitian
Bre dlng Cove                      10          16      23      23      23      23         24
Burle 11                                        1       1       1       1       1         1
Cal                                 6           8      13      20      20      20        21
Hei ers  9-24  o~h                  3           3       4       7      10      10        10
He   24-36                          1           3       2       1       3        4         4
FaZ tening Cull Fo3                 1           0       O       0       0       0          0
trrAL ANI~                      22                          52              58        60
tOTAL ANIIMALUNITS                          22                      1 §.8    40        40
BednCows                            1           0       0       1       1       1          1
Wea  s                             _            O       O       O       O       O          O
tOTAL                            1           0       0       1       1       1          1
Broedng Age Reifero                 0          10       5       0       0       0          0
TOTAL                            0          10               0       0       0          0
Sales
Male Yearlings                      0           3       4       6       9       10        10
Stears   9-24 montha                3           0       0       0       0       0          0
He: eers 24-36 monthe               2           0       1       3       3       5          5
Fat ening Cull Females              1                   1       2       2        2
TOTAL                            6           8       6      11                         18
Milk Sales (oo'0i)                4.5         7.4   14.5   30.0   35.7   38.6           39.9
Produlon Data
W.a xng Rate            %       60.00      o80.00   85.00   85.00   85.00   85.00      85.00
Adhit Mortality         %        300         4.00    2.30    2.30    2.30    2.30      2.30
Ext  acticn Rate        %       26.67       36.15   14.13   19.27   2I4.71  32.45      35.55
Tot*J. Outpxt Rato      %       40.00       36.15   15.86   28.64  32.68   44.02       48.64
C     aotal Herd        %       47.62       52.12   53.29   47.29  41.80  40.51       40.51
Cow Ratio          %        3.00        3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00   3.00          3.00
Cow Culling Rate        %        7.00       50*00   5.00   10.00   10.00   10.00      15.00
Bul: Culling Rate                0*00       10.00    10.00      10.00    10.00   10.00  10.00
HeiL'er Culling Rate    %        0,00        5.00    5.00    5.00    5.00   5.00       5.00
Stoskidng Rate        ha/au      1.33        0.90    0.67    0.62    0.53    0.50      0.50
Mi1l  Yield          J/cow        750         925   1,100   1,500   1,800   1,900     1,900             e



PAN A M A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Model 1 -- Small Dairy Fazu.
Income Statsment
Estimate of Sales &  operatinR Costs
(US  Dollars?
n
Pre. Dev.           1               2               3               4               5             6-20
1  N C O m E
Sale of Output                        850             832            308             875             912           1,360           1,532
Other Sources-Milk !/                 450             813           1.590          3.301           3.929           4.250           4.389
Total Income:                1.300           1i645           1.898           4.176           4.841           5.610           5.J21
O P E R A T I N G C O S T S
Fixed Costa:
Labor                              500              700            900             900              900             900             900
Pasture Maintenance                 100             100            100             300             300              300             300
Fences & Water                       50              50              90              90              90              90              90
Building & Construction              50             50              50             230              230             230             230
Seaen                                 0               0               0            300              300             300             300
Miscellaneous                         4              13              19              19              24              22              22
Sub-total:                     704             913           1,159           1,839           1,844           1,842           1,842
Variable Costs:
Dipping                               0              22              30              33              38              40              40
Mlaerals                             15              56              75              81              95             100             100
Vaccines                             21              31              42              46              53              56              56
Other                                 3              18              24              26              30              32              32
Sub-total:                      39             127             170             185             217              227             227
Stock Purchases                         0             600             300               0               0               0               0
Total Costs:                    743           1.640          1.629           2.024           2.061            2.069           2SO69
Net Operating Income                    551               5             269           2,152           2,780           3,540           3,852
1/ Estimated milk price per liter US$0.11.



l*4B1 1 - _.81 DetIr Par
Befo..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~(I  -qi l                              lea
Befors--------------- -                         _ ---------------  --______y-         ____________________________ -      _.__________--_--___--
n..el_tanuac          1           .i         a                      a                     2.          ¡k2 14    6  7J  11
1.   a........                               .....                 .               1,645       1.8W9      4,176      4,841       5.610      5,921      5,921       5,921      5,921       5.921         5,921         5,921
.,2. Um Tro Iamt_nU:
(a)  Dav.lo       l      -e-                                                   7,600      3.0-0                               -           -          -           -          -           -             -             -
-             (b)   orr                CiL . .................                -               1900         760
-         3. T~.r   Capital _a~C        :
(a)  Pre        Y '* Caob  _eer. ..........e.57                                             162         171        396         549        140        252         374        706         748           748           748
(b) Sbort Teo la, for Ope.tl
Be . .-                                                               -    700 .                        - _   . _ _ .                                                                      - .
IOTAL                                         1.300           1A,02                           5.2  L  uL7                6.061      6.173       6.295      6.627      6.6        6 9 6 . 6 669
1  1.      Ter o la  t, /
<e) eveIaul t 10..-                                                            7.600   3,040            -          -           -          -          - .  .                             -             -             -
(6)  Bor~ s Contributie  ...                                    -              1.400         760                                                     -           -          -           -              -            -
2. Oparatíma M_nae
<( )Bcloe    Lon Inte   ...            ......                  743             1.040      1,329       2,024      2,061      2.069       2,069      2,069       2,069       2,069      2,069          2.069        2,069
<6) Loan Interet-
(i)  00 Dauvloant loan        ..-                                           _          760       1,050      1,050       1,050        640        630         420         210
(ji)  On Sbort-f   lo7n for
Optíng   n         ...............               -                 -          -            77         77         -          -          -           -           -          -
3.  loan Iepe7anta
(<)  De telomnt lo.                                            -                -           -          -          -         2,100      2,100       2;100      2,100       2,100
(b) Uto~t-Te.. on Optratiog
p .. ...                     .-                                        -    _ -         -                700   -    -    -                                         -
4. Appme1t.  Ii   Requir_nta
for IC rb     I Uving Cot .50. 500                                                        500 50                800         800 80               1.000      1.o00       1..500                    1.500        1.500
xorAL                                        1.243            11.040      6.839 39               4.6U       6.019       5.809      5.7*        5.589      5.879       3.568          3569         3.569
5.  E ted Caab bala         t Vrt Ilnd   .....                     ......             161        171                    396        sw                     2s2 374                748       3300                        3.100
6. Iaental lard Vlue  ..........                                                                 -           -          -          -           -          - .lO
L/ tanty parctnt of total 4lo_ t l7n.
Bra.ae.ta total coet of ~W  iu_tante fmnd by devel pe t lo nod borro_rz o cetrIbutio,
but  eMh  Lo nmt of br~din  etook retanad during develo_nt perod.
¡/ D d on fiv_ year rapaynt períd vith thre yeens of greca.



r^
L1VEUAX DI~.IT PRtUICT
Ibdal 2 - Ief/Dsíoy XC o       100 ha
Eottaaa of Invest..at co.t
!                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.--.--.------------------------- TTLCS  -------------------------------------
------------ Total Co t ---------                Pore4gn              no. of                          No. of                            lo. of
no. of             UDit                         1ore13U                            faoha.e              ODlta          UDt              UDft                               ~te t  t      JOoot
Uova     Dt It                     Uita               C*t           Loca           Ka  oX            Total              Cost               .....- 7eo 1 --- --             ------ Tear 2 ------              ---   Year 3 ------
Clostios                   .                       30 h.               50          1,200              300          1,500               20                  20            1,000              10-                                              -
Zotabíluts-Dt                                      30 ha               30            leo              720            900               60                  20              600              10             300               _
lmeiteDo .o ..                                     30 ha               20            120              480            600               80                  -               -                20             400               lo              200
StDad Tnp  Isí P           . ..as                   4 km             350            280             1,120          1,400               80                   2              700               2             700               -               -
SDabid.iloaaí - El«tric                             5 1a               50             50              200            250               80                  -               -                 3             150                 2             100
Wat. fr     o P   liites
SDply ....                   .                                        -             40               160            200               80                  -               -                -              200               -               -
Stoek ~Dília4
CosrTlo ad Cs         ..h.s                        - .                               320               80            400                20                 -              -                 -              400                -
Lodiz R_Dp ...........-                                                -             200              -              200               -                   -               -                -              _                  -              200
NohiDrv ed EOqaí t
Tractor, Plíugb  id lisrov *---                     1/5             6.000            200            I,C00          1,200                80                1/5            1,200              _              _                  _              -
FertlíiJr Sprtr ..                                 1/5                800             30              130            160                80                1/5              160
R.otry Cotter .                                    115              1,200             40              200            240               80                 1I5              240              -              -                  -              -
Trail.r . . . .                                     1/5   ll0                         30              130             160               80                1/5               160                            -
Vetartl rYr Etai_Dt
Vter     ryTls .................                    -                 -               50               50            100                50                 -                -               -               100               -              -
Saddler,                                               -                 -               90                60            150               40                 _-                               -                        -                        150
Llr.stook
Bulla - Local  ............                         4                 650          2,600                           2,600                -                   2             1,300               1             650                1             650
Sreedable ?~_les   - Locd  ........                 20                250          5,000              -            5,000                -                   10            2,500               5           1,250                5           1,250
Kiallo         ¡te                                    -                 -              570               370            940               39                  -               540              _              250                -              150
TOTAL                                                                  11.o00             5.000         16.000               31                  _00_                                          4.90                              2.700
!0o



TÓIa 2
bada  2 -lea  Datn Faa -100 h.a
(054 Klwevlast'
Yac MIsO  Yaia  ¡clave                                        -                                                   0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~820
Ríl .*............                             400                  440                      13                               3            3            4             4444
Cae        .             .150                                         165                    42                  52           61           67            70           75           75           75           73
Calves . .              .       30                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~40     <19>                (235          <31)         <40>         <47>         <53>         <56)         <56>          (56>
Rauca. 9-24 so .t.s   .120.1..                                              90                                            1            4           19           22           25           27           2;
SIsare          .....a...be              120                  160                      9                                            1 i          1e           25           25           27           27
.ller2-5    aars.                                 6015                                                                                     14
Flc---    9gCal-ti.f    .......  .    .          lí30                120                      2                                4                          689 
TOTAL 91004                                                                                             105          128          153          179          198          20            209          209
1a4--1aa   Ati-l uimta                                                                   74                  77            95          112          ¡l!          139          144          140          148
Pavabased Sacaet.........                       130                  140                     -                   23          .21           1      18L                -Z          _:            Z-           -
TOTAL ANIMA  REIST                                                                   74                 100          120          130          140          159          144           148          148
Raíl                                                                   - ............                             0            0            0             0            0            0            6            0
Cae.........1..1.1..1.2                                                                                                                                                                          2            2
ftif---. 9-24 sent                                                                            a                   o            0            o              0                                       
íaSr--, .24aocth.-                                                                            o                   o            o1                        Ii                         oo
Oeífevs.S23yar.-.......                                                                                           0            7                          0            0000
Sser-.  2-S Y....                                                                             0                   0            2                                                      
Fa,ttolag C.íICOe. . ........                                                                                     0            5            0           ...            0            00                        0
TOTAL DEATOS                                                                          2                  _             3            3            22444
Radie.~.........                           620                  700                                          2            1            1            1            1             1            11
Breedablc  .I. Pen      .....es .                220                   -                      -                   0            0            5           ...                        .                
Rob-atalI                                                                                                   12            6             6            11111
Ser. .............                            130                 150                      .23                             25           18           U             z            2                
TOTAL. PUCRAISO                                                                                          35           31            4           121111
Sales (Naebar
S-rpías Relieve 2-3   -.ears       .            100                   200                     6                               -            --                          0           11           14           16
laR...hrsdíSte-rs  3-A y.sr..                   00                    220                     9                   9            4           -...-
Renalh Erad íte..rs 2-3 yesra                   175                   190                     .                   5            0           11            15           19           25           25           27
Cal Reifer-.        .100                                             110                      .1                               1            1            1            1111
CaI   .I...............                          100                  200                     .                                 1            11111I
Cali Cao.110...........                                               120                     0                   3            4            6           ..f            a            9           _             9
luí-total                                                                               17                  18           10           19           23           37           45            50           54
Porabs...d latr...........                       175                 190                      --                              22           24           18a          11          -__            - 
TOITAL SALES                                                                         17                  la           41           42           41           48           4            50           54
2/b5..   .........o. /lOira                                                        9.0                0 2.0        15.0         20.0         24.0         26.0         28.0         28.0         28.0
Ca1-ab--re.-...........1                                               -                     45                  55           60           45           70           7      75    73                  73     "
Mort-litíee:  (a>   Madlt ....                               1         .                                          2            2             2            2            2            2            2            2
(b) CslI .-. ....                                                            4                   3             5            5            3            5            3            3            3
Calla           la   lvi.-  1....-..                                                                              -            -           10           13            1            1            15           1
Ib>   C-,es.      ..             .          1         .5                                         81           0           10            10           12           12           12           12
(a)  Relfac-                     -                                           5                   51            5            5            5            5            5            5 
lcalaCaes/Bal         ......                -      Ccns/a11                          30:1                20:1          20,1        20!1          20d          20:1         20:1         701          20:1
Pera..rtage Coa. ofTatal MerO                    -           7         .                     41                  31_          40           45           39           38           37            36           56
N~. of C-e mí lkad .......No.                                      .                          1a                  04           30          32           22            23           35           s5           3
Milk Sísld/Cae.........                     .                                               300                 500          500          600          700          800          800          800          8000
S-aablog Rtate     .....                                   AY/ha.                           .74                   1          1.21         1.3          1.4          1.4          1.44         1.5           1.5
Carryín. Capaalty4r                                        1ut.72      -                     7                                .            .3          1.4          1.6          1.4           1.4          1.4
teírsailan le~~~~~~~~  .     .          1         -                     10~~~l              18           14            12           13           15           17           17           18
Otiab  Resk.                                                                                 18                  18           14           12           13            19          22            24           26
Drattr Rto                                    <bu>                   (k&>               (nate>               <a--ee>      (..t..        aas          sa> (-.ttEI>    (a.tOR               (a.tae          als
Stoa-. 3-4 yea.......225                                              -                    20.0                 2.03          .09          -            .            . 
lacar. 2-3 yee... ..200                                              225                                         ¡ .o        1.0          2.2          3.0          4.3          5.2          5.6          1.1
Cali NCellare 9-24 aatrba....                   140                  150                    .                    .14         .14          .14          .14          .15          .15          .15          .15
Cali  laí.1............                          225                 250                    .                    -           .23          .23          .25          .23          .25          .25          .25
Cali Caes       ..........                       180                 190                   .32.s                 .4          .64          .94         ..6!         1J4           1.6          1.6          1.6
Sub-tat.1                                                                             2.35                 3.65        3.71         5.53         4.33          6.1          7.2          7.6          0.1
Par--haesd St.*.........                         200                 225                                        _:_          4.4          4,           3.6          2.5         __-__--_
TOTAL. 01E0000 01IG9T                                                             2.33                  3.62        8.11         8.33         7.93          8.6          7.2          7.6          8.1
lersces   iresd Maiglí.                                                              -                    1.3       5.76         5.08         5.58          6.25        4.85          5.25         5.75
isareseeta      ..M .........                                                                             3.0         6.0         11.0         15.0         17.0         ¡9.0         10.0         i9.R
1/Cattle  values. are .epeaed te rIsc sinaí 10  1.I Yaer 5 analy ..és  te eslpr-vnet le qealt. of p-R-as? til--->h lpro-d breedlrg atak
flíRa. -ed ader tha Prajena a.d  nprv-d aesasect se  steiritlsa   eteadsrds.
2'A.---    aIet slík salas  -Iaí        loras    . 1aeteed of I  Re-o bea.- d-vl.~at. 35 vane eald be  tia -               lo"1  fclI Mav1lpan--  setae  11
yíold par- an -Iud    -tr    -e-astaiY f---  500 1. te 000 1. ases11í>  altbcis    rIsa asca-da>  aIiCng  -Iad be aatststrd.
21  iv-rl-  fea es.ta  ealtabls f--r rssno   le tha  rasrí bcdln¡ h.rd a.d of 1-e-r qaeIlty th.cosorplas  Ocalee  salA  lar- bradi.g to
4/  Acínele solA  . Iasahgíe  aso laludls  pacab..ad et-sr  capras..d aaaparasns   of total roh hard soo1adlg pathased stea..
5/  R.aval  ---d .ol-at. solA  for-  b---dleoas ..d      elga  56  a.sl   perniesd eteers.ee.prs..ad seaP.-.e.t.a.e al total  rsbsd b-rd
---Aiog par-has..0 caser..



Ibd. 2 - B.f OoIlr loh - 100 ha
£otl~te of Sale. & ,eret1í costa
C.                           Y~&~~~~ler 0-4      leer 5-20                                         1             2            3             4             $                          7             6-20
A. Cattle salee
~lag.. leifere <2-3 yra) .......                   160                20                     1.060                  -                                                      ,80         2,200        2.800           3.300
a~ e    ~ Ead Se" (3-4 yr*) ......                 200                220                    1,800                1,800          800                         -              -            -             -               -
£a~e  Iz   S£~"r (2-3 y")......                    175                 190                                           m 8       1.560          1,93         2,630          3,600        4,370        4,750           5,130
C.lí lb~ier.............                           100                 110                                          100          100            100          100            11           110           110             110
C.dl ~i...............ia.18                                           200                       -                   -            180            180          180            20           200           200             200
CdII C~...............                            110                 120                      220                  3»           44!                         m* j           III        1 080LI                      LI
8.1tot*l                                                                              5,100                3,110       3.100          2,870         3,570         6.470        7.960         8.940           9,720
P.raaa. Srer............                          175                 190                      .                    -         L!á            4.0           j,J-W          1.930-                                     -7
~OA  C~Tt SMES                                                                        3.100                3.110       6.950          7.070         6,720          8.400       7,960         8.960           9.720
3-mi sa¡ee                                                                                            500                1.20        1.300          2.000         2.4W           2.600       2.80         2...L           2..
TOZAL S1-1.6                                                                          4 000                4.^         LMO            9.0           9.0           11.00       iom           1170            Jj.
C. Operertta 2eae                                          VoLta            ¡bit y.!..
m k Ie...............1                                           1,000 pA.                  500                  600          100            800          900          1,000        1.100         1,100           1,100
10.1 Lbr .............1                                            700 p.a.                 600                  700          800            900          90             800        1,000         1.000           1.000
~iI leatb
Olpping  ...............OIh.ad                                                               70                  150          150            170           190           200          210           210             210
mi-,aal*   ............                                          2.50lhee                    100                 330          380            430          480            500          530           530             530
YacImaa .............                                            1.40/head                   100                  180         210            240           270            280         290           290             290
orLar .1..............                                            0.8Blead                   60                   100         120            140           130            160         170           170             170
P.at.e                                                          ifth.-2Oh                   100                   100         100            100           800           900          800           80              800
p~e     ................                                       51 of Vl~b                    40                   40           40             40           130            130          130          130             130
uster ................I of Valee                                                              20                   20          20             20            30             30           30           30              30
Beidiog .............                                        101 of Vl.,a                    50                   50          50             so            so             50           50            so              so
S.teel ledí.g Farlitia......                                  101 of Velo                     20                   20          20             20            so             80           so           80              8
~¡Wry.....................                     G0  of Vlab                    -                    .            90)            90          180            l80          180           180             180
P.*" Labrlrata
~ dti-~y .............160 h... P...-                                                                                            -              -           160            160          160           160             160
Boíl Ie       r ....   ......                    6501be.d             700/hoe.d                  -                    .            -              -         .650             700          700           700             700
ltu"e1a1o.a............100                                                                                           130    150                  130          250            270    270                 270             270
Sobtot*1                                                                               i.640                2,400       2,830          3,150         4,72.0         5,440       5,700         5,700           5.700
SerPurch~* o130/bea                                              LSOIhad                     -2..2%                         3.5            2 340         1 430                                      Z
TMZAL 016*12  66P                                                                      194                  5.390       6-8            5.490         6. .30        -544          L.70          5.700          5.700              , 
~-*20t 0perat.~ lo.      ........                                                              2,160               (1,090)      2,420          3,610         2,950          5,560        5.100        6,000           fi,80
A-oo1 ierra.1 oper.t¡og 1or    .                                                                                  (3,250)         260          1,450          790          3,400        2,960         3,860           4,640



Iodl 2 -  a! D5a¡  Fax  - 100 h.
*nnci»l Prolactiona
(SUS Iquivalent)
E.
r -----__-_-----_------__------__-_-------_--_-_--_-_--_-_______----_-__----_-____-_-_-__-_-__-_____-_-_y__-  _____-_____-.-_---------------------------------------------__-_____-____-__-______-___,__-_-__-
knDlo_n              t 1    .     .         ..          ..          ..         ..          ..         ..          ..          ...          ...............                                      ...... 2  3  4  5  6  7   119   10   1 1 12 13  14-19  20
1.    las ....                                           4,000          4,300       8,500       9,100       9,100      11,000      10,80      11,700      12.50       12,500     12,00        12,500        12,500      12,50         12,50         12,500 
2.  1as Tana Iat_nta:
(a)  0ew1owent Loas n  1!                                    .     .......  r   ... -  6,720  3,920  2,160  -         -
(h)   ooro.T'a Coutrie,tion                           -             1,680         980         5C0
3. trking Capital Reaorcas:
(<) Praviou  Yer    Ca  bIl   . ..... B                             1,160       2,060       2,739      3,017        2,520       2,113       -           -          _           _            _             _          _              _
O6)  Short T-  Lo   Er aparat-n
a .-.                       .                                                          -          -            -    -    -    -                                         -            -                       _ -_ - _
4.  oa  *or For Star ..............                        -             2.990    3J250         2.340       1.430          -          -          - 
TOTAL                                  4.000          16.850      18.710     16.879      13.547      13.520      12.913      11.700     12.500      12.300      12.500      12.500        12.0        1200           12.5          12.500
CASE oUNI
1- Long Teo. ¡o.acsoten: -
(a)  Da1 ont La. .-                                                 6,720       3,920       2,160        -            .           -         -           .          -           -            .                        -
(b)  Bor~r' Contribution                               -            1,680         980         540        -            -           -         .           -          .           .            -             .          -              -
2. q,eptn   apan.;
(a>   Iaclius. Loa In ltereat
Pnrcite of *          Str  ...... r          1,840           2,400       2,830       3,150      4,720        5,440       5,700      5,700       5,700      5,700       7,500        5,700         5,700      5,700          5.700          ,700
(6> loa rotarant:
(1) 0a Sen ar T. L
tor Operti.g ¡apea..                     -               -           .          .           -            -          -          .          .           .           .                         -           - p                          -
(11)  Ofn Dlo ent L1                           -               -           672       1,064      1,280        1,070         860        650         440         230
3. .  Los n     en.t:
(a) Short Term o- Oporatfl
(b) ,  .a1o_nt  ao  -         .      .                                 -          -           -         2,100       2,100       2,100       2,100      2,100       2
4.  Pear Ster:
(a) lan   f or t          rde o 5t_ra                  -            2,990       3,250       2,340       1,450         .           .                                        -           -
(h) LIon l          .te .    ...                      -                -          329         358    257              137
(e)  l     Rp      ta .................                               .-        2,990       3,250       2,340       1,430
5.  4prosteta 4to e  petrnairons
lor aser*  nlf  CoBt  .               O            CO 1.000        1.00       1.000         00   1.0     0        1           1.000      ..                1.500    I .000   2.000       2.000         2.000       2.000          2.00          2000
TOTAL                                  2.840          14.790      15.971     13.862      11.027       11.407       9..L0      9.950       9.740      9.,73       9.500        7.700         7.700      7.700          7.700         7.700
6.  Esaeted C         Balse  t e Tas,.                  1 160           2.060       2.739     -             2.520       2.113       3.253      1.750       2.760       2.770      3.000        4.8SW         4.000      4.80D          4.80          4.800
.nd........ .......................
7.  Ier tu l            ier   . ................ a                      _                                                                                    _             _                         _              .                                14J
1/ La  tan.  thOIaae           -nid te onin   e. icluiteg tIrin yearo graoc  at 102 Intereit.
Y  Testly parcnt of total ii tuent coat.
3 L       -osid be grastad by c           hr~al b   at 11  intereit.
/ Reprasant. total cost of inehstseno t      a fnted by deralopurrt loan sed borro-'. coetebution., brt ehíie  ji o-t of brodisg ntck recal- ad d.riS dovsíopme.t per,id.
*                                                                                                              _ o  



ra
LIVESrOCK DIhELPIEI  PROJECT
Ndoa1 3 - *r-dina  Kae-e.iha Isne, - 400 h.
Estlite of Inwst_t Cost
(U8* Equivalent)
*                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P K1 A 5 E D   I H V E S T NE H T S
--------------------------------- TOrAL COST-
------------- Tot-l Coet -------------             F or 4n           Y.. of                         No. of                          Y.  f
No. of         Unit                           Foreign                             lachasg.          Unita          Iount           Unit           Anout            Uit°          Auont
Iast.nt Ite                        Unite           Cost           Local          £..h               Totl               Cost             ------ Ter 1 ------           ------ Tear 2 ------             ----- Yer 3 ------
Pastura.
Clearíng  ............................                s a             50 so        2,000              500            2, 500              20                30 ha        1,500             20 ha        1I000
sta blsl=at .100 h.                                                   30             600            2,400            3,000               sO                50 h.        1.500             30 h.           900             20 h.         600
M inte.a.ce. . 1         0                           100 ha           20             400            1,600             2,000               80               -                              50 ha         1,000             50 he       1,000
Stard Typ  F.n         ...cg           5                km           350             350            1.400            1.750               80                 3 k.        1.050              2 k            700             -             -
lIterans Pacilities
Supply..               -                              ..........................  -  100              400               500               sO               -              -                               500             -             -
D.ildisas
Lor  -uig.2 ........................                                 600             960              240             1, 200              20                2            1,200                            -
Stock Hasdílbs
Corrl. and Crsh . .....                                 1            800             600              200               800               25                              -                1              800
Spray reaes ..........................1                            1,500             300            1,200             1.500               80                1            1,500            -               -               -             -
Livaatock
Enlls - Local. 7....................                                 650           4,550              -               4,550               -                 4            2.600             1              650               2         1,300
Ereedablo Palels - Locl ............                   25            250           6.250              -               6,250               -                 15           3,750             5             1.250              5          1.250
Miscellaneo   Itea                                                                       890              560             1.450               40               -               900             _               200             _             350
TOTAL                                                                      1.                                 25.500               33               -4U.OOO                         -            7.                -           4.500



Hal
11950700K        -------------------------............-0--------
.   .....raer. 004                                      r.;  5-lo             ftAAa                   a                                 o1          11        12          L           2            12
Cari .       .               .       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~120      165                 140               123        169         182        194         212        222         232        232           232
Coite,       ........... .       .             30                    40                  (63>             <77>       <92>       <110>      <117>       (136>      (148)       (162)      <162)         <162)
saltar. 9-24  --hoet      .......                 120                   120                  30               30          34          7          5           9          62         6            31
Ot-ar   9-24eooehe         .....    .             150                   140                  30               31          37         49          33         6l          '6         72          28           76
sofr2- 3y.r150                                                     162                   12               27         29          35         46          so         33          33         23            13
Otee   2- 3 Yeera........                         160                  172                   29               15          -          -           -          -           --                     --
Faltaníno 0.11 Cave . .        .    ~~~         ~         ~~110  120              7-U1                      .12        .2           lo         23         J7J                    31             27
0gb-total Molsa  Uocte                                                                 249               269        265        320         »34         299        418        430         443          443
Purahanad Sinare.........                         130                   140                 -j              .11         ¿ja         i5          157        1-21        102a        90          77           75,
toraL MIA   29113                                                                  250              320        400         480       3420         520         520        320        320           207
B.11 .-.......-.......0                                                                                        0           0          0          0           0          0           0          0             0
C.1v...............5                                                                                           2           2          3           3          4           4          4           5            3
Otear   9-4eli                                     --                                                          1           1          1           1          1           1          111
stlfare9-24   --ar.-....-....0                                                                                 0           1          1           1          1           1100
Otearv.  2- 3 yaaro .-...1..-.-.....
Stttae t     eer2 e 31  2.........                                                            1                                                   2          2           3          2          2             2
FaitorOno 0.11 Con                                                                                                         0 0                                                                   
ota   ono L1                                                                                          8           9         13          14         13          14         13          16           3
Moí.6-..............                               50                  700                   -4                            1          2          2           23                                  
¡rec¿e         ..............               250--1.                                                                                     3 *:                                                
046-total                                                     -               ~~~          ~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~                                                        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~19  6  7  2  3  3  2  ¿a
oeaore.~~~                                      ~         ~~~~~~~                                         ~~130  LSÓ  fl  11  1050  137       Jfl        15-         .J0        721           __
iota romomeosos                                           -               39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  121  157  132    124         102        9L2          72          22
Osr7le  hilera  2-3 Yer.;....                     180                  200                   17               -          -           -          -           -          03         29          36           41
anoib re.d LIner  3-4 ye.; ....                   200                  220                   29               28         15          -          -           -          -          -           -             -
lea*  BrdOgt..r;2-3 y .    ....                   172                  190                   -                14         30          24         48          35         60          61         71            77
C.nlísíter. 9.-2eni - ......                      100                  110                                     2          2           3          3           2                                   
C.lífull.tula                                                          200                   -                 í          1           1          1           2          3           3          2             2
C.O1 Con.............                             110                  120                    7             .11          12          16        43         .13          24          6        .2±            -h
sa-toreo                                                         ~~~~~~                       ~~~        ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~                    ~~~ ~ ~~~53  56  46  26  69  79  114  124  1317  650
P-rstoedOt-ara172                                                      190                   --                          56         113        147        j4          12-9       j90          es            75
iOTAL &ALE                                                                                         .56         ¿2         168         216         13         24         226         223          323
TaClilcí.4  Coatfesete                                           954
coOvnalioro                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               43               55          60         63          70         70          70         30         70            70
~toaeltlna:  <a)MaItC                                         1 ....                          3                2           2          2          2           2          2           2          3             2
ColOn  (.31.alIe                              1 ~ ~                ~         ~        ~      ~~~         ~~         ~~         ~ -  0I  12  12  15  1   15         13         13            11
C<l.BiSCn                                                       -58                                                8         1          10          12         12          12         12            12
(o>¡eítera                        1          -~~~~~~~~I           0                3                                  3          3                                   
lelatOan Cosafliuíl.-    ~~~~~~~~CoenIpul                 -                  0:1             20:1       20:1        20:1       20:1        20:1       20:1        20:1       20:1          20:1
PesaaaCor  oc Toa   ed                                                                44               43          44         41          39         38         40          58          1,7          37
ít..liotte lera ..                  - ~~~~~~~~~~ADM/i    -                    .6¡íe            .           1        1.2         :1.         0.3        1.3        1.3         1.303
Carrylng Capafy ........            .-                      80/4        -16le                                 .1102                            1.54        1.3        13         1.3         3.            13
Esítasttsa Ia1q  1/ .      ...-.1.....1                                                                       16         16          12         14          14         13         16          ¡7           la8
Offtaba tet .I . ............                                 1                              17               16         16          12         14          14         20         21          22            26
staero 3-4 ynaa.....           .                  222                   -                  6.5              6.3         3.:                     -          -           -                        
Otauro 2.3 ya.. ....           .                  28                   222                  -               2.8         6.         7.          9.6       11.7        13.0       14.6       16.0          17.3
Ovil Haltera 9-4  ---tbo                          140                  150                   -                .3        0.3        05          0.3        8.3          .          .           .            .
Cu1  lO 1.1........225                                                 no0                                  0.2         t.2        0.2         0.2        0.5         t.3        0.5        0.5            ¡.5
Cul1 Cra.   ............                          160                  Leo                  1.               .44       jJ           2.6        2.7        4.          4.3        4.7        4.1.          '.7
oab,toíel                                                                              7.6             11.4       11.8        10.5       12.0        16.7       ¡e.$       20.4        21.8          23.í
PraadSta;.       ........                   200                  225                  -                 -        10.0        22.4   ~294            5¿         3.0        fJ                         ¡
TMAL mana   mmc                                                                    7.6             11.4       21.8        3.         42.4       U_         SL          S!         ±1.AO
Ltsreental lIresoadthte                                                                -               3.8       14.2       23.5        24.8       43.6       40.2        53.3       34.0          33.4
/.  Cattls unían  a         -petad ea ric l.bat 10  1. lY.ee  5 -.aly ése eealePrort 00 9t8*IIey uf pr¡eay tliroofl opgrad     basiad  eioo
ftneasd andr the trajese oed tepraa  - ~ .Can   ae  nritlaa  ataedara..
2/   -.hb Ired solae "l.    d 8. ea  leaCtír -ot I IlqPerodied otean   spre---d -  ePorastoa. of total ro-ol brd Ited .soítdO     p.ao.d   tae
¿1   .n.  ired alele  "Id fo; bredía  anA  ~lgton  ant 14.1081« .15yeolad asa.apta.ed .C   poroentag  of totel   -. eab lrd hand  -oldla
4 lOiffereao  baltee piraeo  md *al* polsa par Ita  lo  actaseS  » b..i ~             ftSO*~ ¡bot  wnsíA  jaettfy teli prof Itoblíety of tha  tetr fatteatq  oper*te.
Ae¡ot 20, 0972



PAU~
Iodel 3 - Ir_dingF-ttenina R neh - 400 ha
Euti_ta of Sale I  O..ratmng Coati
(089 Eqdunil.nt)
PW                             r---------------------------..... _________* ....... _------       -            -«c -e  ------~---- i~--~---------- - --------~~-~ i -------
"   C^t«ere  Ye«  0-4   V«ra 5-20        D v fot_ t             L             2            3                                                      7            8             9-20
A. Cattle Sales
Swplm  NBif.ri 2-3 y.r . .                  10 0                 200                  3,060               -            -             - _ _ 5,0D0                                         5,SOO  *      ,800           8,200
¡        d sOnra 3-4 »~            .        200                  220                  3.00              3.600       3,00             -
a~  Srid SOne  2-3   a   .                  175                  190                                    2,450       3,230        6,300          8.400         9,0          11,400       12,350        13,490         14,630
0011 BuífOS  ...........                    100                  110                                      200         200           300           300           330           330          330           330            330
Cull 3.11 .  .........                      lUO                  200                    -                 180         180           180           10           400            400          400          400             400
CQIl 00   .                                 110                  120                    770             J.210       1.320         1.760         1.670         2.640         2            3.120        3.120
S.b-teta1                                                                         9,630             9,640       9.930        8.540         10.750        13,2s0        20,010       22.000       24.140          26,680
P~dn, sOar. V.175                                                190                    -             _             8.7s0        19.780        25.730        29.2 6       0 24. 510  19.000           16.720         14.250
=OCAL CAT   s11SAZ                                                            9.630             9.60       18.70        2B.320         36.480       42.510         44.520       41.000       40.860          40.930
D. OOber 5al*s                                       _                    _                     _                                                                                                             - _
TOAL 9*5                             -                   -                    9.630             9.640      10.700       Z8.320         36.4B0       42.510         44.5Z0      41.000        40.860          40.930
C,  O"r ti«~8U U °ntt Valus
Lahor
C        ..eb.y..1                                          1,OOO p.a.            1,0oo             1,000       1,000         1,000         1,000         1,100         1,10        1.100         1,100          1,100
PYot Lor .1                                                   900 p.a.              900               900    go    0            900           90          1.000          1,00        1,000         1,00 0         1,000
Oíppiag ........-........                -        I          .O/h.d                 320               400         300           600           650           700            700         700           700             700
Nia.ral .- ...o.ha.d                                                                 600            1.000        1,250        1.500          1,650        1,750          1,750       1,750         1.750           1,750
V     cctir   .-                                           1.40/head                450               550          700          850            900        1,000          1,000       1,000          ,ooo           1,000
other .........................         h- 0./ead                                    260              320          400          500            500          550            550          550          550             550
Mlltetace
Pastura ..........5............                           S/h. - 10/ha -             500              500         50           500         4,000         4,000          4,000       4,000         4,000           4,000
P nec   ............ ...............    %- 7. of V-lue                                50               50           50           50            140          140            140          140          140             140
Wter .........................          -                 5% of Value                 80                O           W0           80            110           110           llO          ll0          llO             110
Bildt . . .......   .............                       10_ lOf V.oo                1o               180          180          180            300          300            300          300          300             300
Corral- .....   --- ........            -                10% of Value                -                -            -            -              230          230            230          230          230             230
Bull  ReplacOnts  ...................    t         501nead          700/heed                                   -     _                  -            1,300         2,100         2,100        2,100         2,100          2,100
mI.cSIaoo S. .......................                                                                          400          500          500            750           800            600         6O0           600           e8o
S.b-tot.1                                                                     4<,840                5,380        6,060        6,660         12,430       13,780         13,780       13,760       13,780
St.er Pr%chaes   ........   ..............   130ihead               150/head                                6.650       14.950       19.500         20.400       18.150         15300        13500         11350          11.500
TOTAL o008a101  E0PX9S0 S                                                     4.840            22.030       21,010       26,16          32,830        1             29.080       27.280       25,330          25.260
I.t Operatííg lnco ......     ............                                                 4,790           (2,390)      (2,310)       2,160          3,650        10,5          15,440       13,720        15,530         15,650
Ao--al Incremntal Operatsns loco~. ...                                                       _              (7,180)     (7,100)       (2,630)       (1,140)        5,790-        10,650       8,930        10,740          10,860
1/ US55/ha pradoi"nnt; 0S$29ho froe YeSr 4; Teor 1 to 3 tn lodd 0u iove,t .. t loit.



Ll~ITC  DEVELOP9~  PI1WJET
Ihal3    lad~Inaattzania lanh - 400 ha
VIMPOAnna Proíbrtioné
1           1                                                                                 91                       1A                       13          14-19           2
1.  Sale*a..................                            9,630             9,840      18.700       28,320      36,480     42,410      44,520      41,000     40,860      40,930     40,930       40,930      40,930        40,930        40.930        40,930;
2.  tan  Taza Ilz,tawta,
<a)  Owevaía.n  Loan .1... 2.....-                                  11.200        5, 600       3,600         -          -           -           -          -                       -..-                                         -
(h)  Eazrrsr's Coatributicn1 .....                                   2,80         1,400          900         -          ----                                                       -----
3.   ~Lakig Capital Eaaazce,:
<a)  Pravioia  ear'* Cas el~n.a ...                                  3,790        7,050       10,190      12,570     11,940      13,470      4,300         -                       ----
(h>  EL.at Taza Loa  faz oparatina
4,  Loa, Lor Poeda. steera i .........6.650                                           14.950       19.500     20.400     i4.IJ2       ... 
TtAL,                                _9630             34.080      47,7W        62 510      69.450     f2,j00      57.990      45.3010    j_0A9       40Lf30      40-830       40,J3      40j93         40.930        40 930         40.930
CASR OuTFLOI
1.  L004 Taz  Ivo=      t
<a>  Oaealop.at Loan..........11,200                                              5,600        3,600         -           --                     -           --                     -            -          -             -             -              -
Ch>  Borromez'. Contríbotían .......2,800                                         1,400          900         ------                                                                             -----
2. Operatlng Expaaaaa:
(a)  taclwaíw Loa  Intarest and
Puzchasa of Feed.r Staera ....              4,940             5,380        6,060        6,660      12,430     13,760      13,780      13,760     13,780      13,760      13,780       13,760     13,790        13,780        13,780         13,780
<b) Loa Intareat;
<1) On Short Taza Loan faz
<11>  On Ozvaop.at Loan........1,120                                                       1,680       2.040      2,040       1,940       1,610      1,630       1,430       1,120          820        410           410--
3. Loa. lapayat.-
<>Shart Taz, on Oparating
<1>  Devalopaest Laun  -.........-                                                                                     1,020      1,020       2,040       2.0410     3,060       3.060        4.080      4,060                                        - 
4.  Feeder Steer6:
ti          61          ji          6i         Al           ji          jij                        ji             6i
(a>  loan faz Paedaz Seaeza .......6,650                                          14,950      19,500      20,400      18.150     15,300      13,500-    11,500      11,500-    11,500        11,500      11,500       11.500        11.500         11,500-
(b>  Loan lntarat ..........                                                        730        1.650       2,140       2,240      2,000         -                      - -          -          -             -                  -             -
(c)  Loa  Rapayanta..- ......6,650                                                            14,930      19,500      20.400     18,130         -           -           -                       -                        -             -
5.  Appzaxmate *¡l~i.  Reqoizntá
foz Ranchez', Living Cost   .....                  i..OP           J.Am           lj,W        1,0         LO0       j,,           1.500      1.500       1.0        1.500      2.L          ..¡.         L2.00       3.000          LD3.0.
TOrAL                                 5.940            27.030       37.51       49, 9       57.5310     59.130      53.690      321,j0     30.450      3120       31.460       321.180     3177          28.080       2820           28.200
6. Expactad C6ab Salama at Yeaz',
£Ud ....i....  .......                           3790              .7.050      10J.22       12.570     11.4        13.470      4.3002    12 j640                  _L660       9.470        8.750       9 160        12 240       U.5               .
3. nernta1 86td Vaa.-                                                                                                      .           .           .          -           .                                                   
~/Loan taz, vald ha on tha  ~ataao 12 yaaza i0cl,d<ng fo.r yaara 9race at 101 ítrtreat.
1/  Tvánty percent af total ±nvaa~nsa   cost.
31/ Loan ~I,d he gzantad by caarcíaí barbo at 11% locareot.
í!  Repreacnte total caot of nan tnvaatn6nto f mancd by delo~a.nt loar aod borroar', zantríbotlón, but uhích ¡. net of breading atock retatred d.ting developent parlad.
/1  8á5.d nr alght yaba rapa5 tn pariad wi th four yaazag óf atane. 101 íntrerna  adInatd t. b..r~t,6'w O Innciel  (rjcín   R.papeat. .-Iod ba lo T.ar. 5 ard 6, 51 nf total anut; la Y.az. 7 and 8,
10%;í ír Veara 9 cad 10, 151; & nd lo eatao 11 ánd 12 abóut 20%.)
Frz Yeaw O p.rchaá6 nf faeder atterta financed by nWf fnda.



PARMAN
LIVESTOCK O67VEWPMENT P~ROJEOr
Meodl 4 - Breeding Fatt.niga Ranch  o a Load Refor Settl~nt Enterpri.. (A"ntmi.nto)
Estiíte of In_.t.nt Cost
(USS Equiavlent)
P .  A S E D  I N V E S T N E N T S
s                                                                                                                                 __ __________________-_-__-------- TOTAL COST ----------------------------------------- TOAL  OST-----------------------
------------- Total C. st -------------             Foreiga            no. of                          No. of                         No. of
No. of               Unit                           Pardan                                  nhaoe           Un"cO          A"wnt            valta           Io~nt          VoIta          Awont
Int---t 1t.                           Uit.                 Cost            L-onl           Eh¡                Total               Coat             ------ Y"  1   ------           ------- Y,ar 2 ------          ------ Yeoar 3 ------
Cle  r    ..a                                         50 ha                50            2,000               500            2.500                 20               30 ha         1.500             20 ha         1,000            -
Establi     t  .      .t  ,*,. .                     100 ha                30              600             2,400            3,000                 60               50 ha         1,500             30 ha           900           20 ha            600
Naiot..n n. .100 ha                                                        20              400             1,600            2,000                 80 s                             -               50 ha         1,000           50 ha          1,000
Standard Typ  P         .encing  -----.- -             5 k.               350              350             1.400            1,750                 sO                3 k          1,050              2 lm           700            -               -
Waterimca PFilities
SPpply .-                                                                  -               600               900            1.500                 60               -               -               -             1,500            1               -
Buildinas
Mana5er- s Hnun.e,,                 ,.1                                 2,500            1,000             1,500            2,500                 60                 1           2,500             -                       -                      -
Stock 8iling
Corro I nd Cr-.shs.                                    1                  800              600               200              800                 25               _               -                 1             800            -               -
Spray R.aes .1                                                          1500               300             1.200            1,500                 80                 1           1.500             -               -              -               -
cales .1                                                                  600              100               500              600                 80               -               -                1              600            -                -
Mchií.r,  nd Enuipaent
Rotary C.tter .1                                                        1,200              240               960            1,200                  so               -              -                 1            1.200            -               -
Ltva-tock
B.llo - Local .8                                                          650             5,200              -              5,200                  -                4            2,600               2            1,300            2             1,300
Breedable Feoles - Local                               00                  250          20,000                -            20,000                  -               40           10,000              30            7,500           10             2,500
Miscellaneous Ite                                         -                   -              1.610               840           2,450                  34               -             1 350             -               800           _                300
TOTAL                                                                         33,000            12000            45000                  28               _            22.000             -            17300                           5.700



7*1i. 5
LIT~ZO0  DEVIN             0.!
tael4 -  oaadsullttesn  lai ss   Ltalatolattst loerstas   Aaeuaintí -400 ha
k &------------------I-----------------
¡ni..................                                       400                 440                    2                3         4          7         7          7         8         a          a 
COS    *................                                    130                 163                   so               05       12?        iS¿       154        143       10.0      160        160          160
Caívss   *...............                                    30                  40(23>                               <28>      (57>       <832      <94>      <14>      <100      <30>)    <312>         <112>
Ocíftco9-24 utli ...........              .                 130                 170                   I1               10        12         27        38        44         44        47         52           52
Stecral-24sca           ...........                         130                 140                   11               11        13         27        40        4    45  *s                     s¿          54
l1.lfsoe2-3  yes............              .                 130                 163                    3               11        10         15        24        37         23        23         22          23
Ota---  2-3  y.a.a       ....... .....160                                       175                   11                5             -    .                    .               -               -           -
iatteuísg Cosíl         ..........                          110                 120                 -1                  'í        7       .1O        .10        _3         16G        19        11         .1±
ToraL                                                                                      116               169       23        31         5          0 3¡             ~             1            1
3gb-total Anisal 0.115                                             01              112      ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~ ~         ~~     ~~       ~~~~1__  2012  23  343  3  12  31!  21!
3urchaoed sisare ............130                                                140                                   M          3         26        27        23        3»         23         214         234
TOTALa tUO    03513                                                                          91i            132        400       480        52        330        520       320       520          550
Oi.- ....................0                                                                                              0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0o
Coa.-.........-.........2                                                                                               1         2          3         3          3         3         3          35
C.lvo    ...........1                                                                                                   1         1          2         3          3         3         3          3
0.ifaro24sonha .O...0.                                                                                                            0         0          1          1                     
ta-os  9-24 soth                                                                 - .........           0                .0        0          0         1          1         1         1          11
Ocft -o  23-Sy..         ...........                                                                   0                0         0          0         0          5         1           
Stero   2-3  y--*....o           ......                                                                0                0         0         -- 
P-4.ha.dStars                                                                                                          - ..........  4       5         '          5         5         3          5           4
Foitcln  Cni  C~c   ...........                                                                                         0         0          0         0         02         0         0        .1            0
tora  00.0                                                                                    3                2         7         10        13        14         14        14         14          33
br~sh aff_                                                                                                                                                 _E
5bus     .................                                  650                 700                                     4         2          2         1         1          2          1         3            1
foa.................                                  230                  -                                     9          9         10        -          -         -         -          --
-44                32        12          1         1         2                      
Obsto.130                                         100                                  ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~1811  550 _  2  270  238  532  Z23  214  314
ToALra  man                                                                                                 22LZ5      560       200       271        12         Di3-      215!      212          2i5
SpVlo.  2iso    -3 y~r                                      10.......0e         200                    6               -         .                              -          19        te        .23          34
lasa RocA BIsen 2-4 yesos                    500~~~~2            220                   11               11         3                                        -         -         - 
labledleol-yc~           a12                                                 90-                                              1          3         24        39        44        64         47           53
CollOeifao. ..............100                                                   110-                                    1         1          1         2          5              2          2          3 3
ColIlul.11................0e                                                    500                   -                 1         1          1         1          1         1         1          1            1
CoIICe...................150                                                    130                    3                4A        7       .      10  -L         >1       1m          45         19          19
1gb-total                                                                                        20               23        25         25        59         53        el        06         93          10
Puochasd Sota. ............175                                                  180                   -               -_    1L77    223    245    m2                      a »       ¡ti    350             210
=oALsa                                                                                       20               23       202       243        302       220       313        533       1,13         315
TeorboIrl Codfiolcto                                                       921
C.~a            .................       .-                              1        -45                                   35        s0         60        70        7.0        70        70        7m           70
NootIit---   <s>Multa .    .....-.                                                                     3                2         2          2         2         8          2         5          2           2
<bh>Cal-a                                    -         1         -.....               4                3          3         2          5         3          3         5         3            3
Colla:          <4 .>hI .-..1...-.                                                                     0               10        12        15         15        15         15        13         15          ¡5
<b)C.       1........                                                                 3                 8         0         8          8        10        12         13        15           12
<a>Iílf-os   -...1..-                                                                 o                 5         5         5          5         5          5         2         3            5
lI.lalo   C~olao      .............-    Ca/EiiII                                                   30:1             20:1       20:1      20:1      20:1       20:1      20:1       50:1      10:1         20:1
P-rst~s  0.-  .f Tota1lb    .....1..-                                                                43                56        »3        44         3*        37         40        30        57           37
lt.okIug  ete..............                                           AS/ha                           .2               .8         1       1.5        1.3       1 3       1.3        1.3       1.3          3.3
taurio   Capnty 21.-.........h.Av^                                               -                   .61               .8         1       1.2        1.3       1.2       1.2        1.5       1.3          5.3
isioaotioslat2,............                                             1        .2                                    14        1,1         9        3.1       14         16        16         16          1a
Oflu*. R«*  ...................1...1,7                                                               14        11          9        15       .14         21        .51       22           24
tSsllu.Jataha                                                                         (k§)              <s.l..>          (s.l..)  (-.1..)  (s.l..>   <--to.>         .t (si  <.l.t.     (seo.>   <s..tnb     1.to
«seo   3-4 Yeso............223                                                   -                 2.43             2.46       1.13        .          --                                       -
Stoe~  2-2 Y lao.3...........00                                                 222                  -              1.5        2.2        5.6       5.3       6.70       9.9        tI;    30.50         31.93
Coll Iiejoa...............140                                                   120                  -.14                       .54       .14        .50       .3          .3        .2       .43          .5
Cotí1.1    ....olIa.........                                23                  220                  -.23                       .23       .22        .132  13  .25  .2           5       .22        .2      53
0.11 cese...............160                                                     180                                  -J¡..A¡   1.12      .J6.        1  .24  ..aA          US   _4á          3.42         3.4
Sa-_total                                                                                     2.04             4.69       4.62      4.57       7.11     11.67      13.55     15.17     114.7        14.03
a---í.l «casad Oslht ..A...5726....11                                                                                                             502       AL        .42,       212         1.2*       60 34
3/  CtItis vana era ap tnd so ría  ."aaC 307 .    Yes  3 aatiy do. t. a  tepoav nu  is 4sa3Itt  .5  ~rs   th~ug    pgoSa   hoesisg aluk
fís---d osr  bs Paejarí sd Uttn~   sa                  t  -a sst.ttgoa  aoeoo
3/  lad. bocA astLea    -ld Coo  ~la mta  sod  Iulsdleg ~aahce  al.aste euprcd at~                   a pcooaut   of total oa   boc  barA1  sosA6'   ot           e  aleen.
finot 50. 1972



I    f.14   I.,dOo.IYttaoiga 8.0.  -  a L.od gel~r  S.tth.ot Eotorori  (M.oa olmt1    600 h.
ufti..t  Of S.l.. 4. 0..rati. cosí.
06r  Vs al~.                         Befor*.----------------    --  -                                -------      o          --------------------- --------
~ XT                        ~~~~~~y~~O:Ar         Te"& 5.20             D_~ooo.Ut                13                                                                    z92
AL Cottil. 8.1..
Sorpl... SaLfor. 2-3 y~or. .......                      180                   200                   1,0                  -             -                           -                         3,800         4.000           4,600          3.200
ld.r.dst`*r. 3-4 yaos.                            200                   220                    2,200   2,0                      ,00                          ---                                          
lo-bad  ra  St.. 2-3 yo-                                175                   190                      -                ,030         1,930         2,200        4,530          a,380         0.80           9,68          10,340         11,660
Cuil 8.10................                               100                   110                                        100           100           100          200            220            220           220            330           5,30
Colí lulí,  ..............                              180                   200                      -                 150           180           180          180            200            200           200            200            200
(3.11 Cav   ...............                             110                   120                      300               440           770         1.110        1.100         ..L.           -1.920        2.2L0           2.280          2.280
&.h-total                                                                                     3.610             3,970         3.980         3.660        6.030          10,560        00,830        16.380         17,756          19,670
P. ~..o   sta      ..............                        175                  190                    --                 - _         30.980        39.030       ML030          50.330        4427           43.130         41.80          390
T=AL C6TTLK 88188                                                                         3 ,j0             3.970        54-960        42.690          0-6         60.910         6009          59.510         59I4»0          59.570
O. 0-tiato  Lw0000                                             Ua1te             ih,Lt -Vobo
F-  .          ...1.1...00.......                                                                1,200              1.200         1,200         1,200        1,200          1,300         1,300          1,300          1,300          1,300
Co,.o  ...........1                                                      1,000 p.a.:              1,000             1,00          1.000         2,000        1,000:  1.10                 2100           1,100          2100w           1.100
!oot láb- .............1                                                   700 p.&.                 900               900            00           900          900          1,000         100            1.000oo        1,000          1,200
Dippin   ........................                      .0/haad                    00               350           460           570           620            620)          630           64              640            640
mi---l .   ................                             . "/hoad                 230                880         1,150         1,470        1,550          1. 550         1, 58         1,600          1,60>0          1.600
voarí .    ........1.40/head                                                                        130               490           640           800          870             870           880           900            900             900
oth.............                                                         0.8hoa*d                    70               290           370           460          500             500           500           510            310             510
p  tn il ...............kb  - 20/ha                                                                 300               500           300           300        4,000          4,000          4.000         4,000)         4,00O           4,000
F:neo...51 .  Vol,,                                                                                  50                s0            so            50          140             140           140           140            140             140
W.  ..........52 of Val,,.                                                                  80       00            1             8           160             160           160           160            160             160
IoIld(08. ..... .....102 of VOb.                                                             -                        -             -              .750                        150           250           230             250            250
O;tock HadI,0g Fao1tIiti                                                101 of V.1.                 --                                                         290             290           290           290            290             290
m-, .           .......... .....                                        101 of VOIe                                   --                                       120             120           120           120             120            120
3.1I1 S.Iparmoní...............                             650/haed                 700/h4o                   -                 -             -             -            650            700          1,400           700            700            700
M4clo,vo,,,.                                                                                                  250               300           350           360          650            650           loo            650            650             630
S.0-total                                                                                        4,300              6.030         6,700         7.330       12,900          15,250        14,030        13.260         13,360          13,360
S10.0 P,rchaoo.    .......1 .........                       130/hoad                 1301he.d                                2 3 530        29 640        3484         35.100         35.700        34.800         33 750         3J210          32.100
TOIAL 0208338  WUSE$                                                                      4.500            29.560         36 340       4219          48             40.950        48,550        47 110          45 460         4546
900t Opr.rtla  loco..............(890)                                                                                       <25,590)       (1,380)          500        6.060         11,960        11,240         12,400         14,090         14,110
80-01 lnr..~ta1 OP-rtia 1g 2. . - ....                                                                                       (24,700>          490>        1,390        4,950         12,850        12,130         13,290         14,980         15,000
1/ US$101h. pro-dewjO0op~   ao.t1y weediog: U1$ 20/ha frco Ye., 4; Y.a0 1 t0 3 íwold.d 00í',1.c00e0 000t..



999<  14    ~,IgJ?4tt~ jsg        Rael ooa    Refoin 2tt1.mot maeisrrí. (AoBptomi.o) - 1400 h.
Retor.          .~           ~         ~        ~~------y--- ----- - -  ------
D.v.lo~~~~~~~.ot  1  2             14 ~ ~~~~~~~~----6 -------- Y                          ------           ----   ------------1------4 -------0
1.  ReIa  ..                                                      3,610            3,970     314,960    14e,690    52,060     6o,92n     60,090      59,510     59,550     59,570     59,570      59.570        59,570      59,570      59,570      59,570        59,370       59,570
2.   OB TB!u                         .............
(A   OO1O1, t 000-                                                         17,600     13,800      14,600        .          .          -.                              -.                                                                           
(142  Iorrow,  ooto,to    /                                                    4,1400     3,500      1.10-                              -           --                                                                                                             
3.   ~U4,.0   Ca¶pit.1 ROo. -,
(*) pg ~3  yeer.j  ~j  801O   .......                           -                           520        342        432                   499        322        484       1,191        200       1,0           1,278      4,807          386       3,04                         -
(14>  ~ot '844  LoA  ~e  Oy.rtlo                                                                                                                                                                                                                   --
ap. v/ .............                                               í.ooo         -        1.000      4.990                 2.         1,000                   -           -            -                        -
14, LOA ter iP~ba of y.d<  19.a 1/ ......                                         £W           a2       3          XJ0_          LW       ff,  8     JU         Y. 1-       210       32,          3RI          30.1W       1.W         1,00 .L_ -                   -         --Z
TOM                              3.610          3~~~~~3.~   8742,40    a4 771     fl1 ¡      IZ612IJf                         9 8L13$    92¡Ml       ¡1J27       92.740        L*           LZ U.,88.               611          .ILJ1.33B
C>D. ~. o.o  L.p  ..............                                           17,600     13,80       14,60 "                                                                                                                                                        
(14  Rrr..r  Contribotion   ..........                                      14,400     3,500      1,100         -                     -          ---------
(.>  1001    1 ^900  íAt1rSt -AO
P.~oA. of y~14.0           .........1                   4,500           6,030      6,7o0      7,350     10,900      13,250     114,050    13,360     13,360     13.360     13,36C)      13,360       13,360      13,360       13,3140     13,360        osc
(13  OP  ~7   T~0  Lo@  tP
2¡w,stiog   s                   -                -         ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~~390  390  300  940  940  1,140  1.270  1,7           30         26- 
(11) Op ID~ye2o1= Los1,760                                                                       3,)140      3,600      3,602      3,150      2,700      2,250      1,80       1,1150         90           450                                  --
3.  Loes 8P~      *:t9
(al 8404 T~  M os  p.rtLOg
-       9 ~/       -          -          -                                                      ,09       360         4,0                                        
(b     M1o~ot LOBO........................04,5                                                                                                   ,500      14,00      1,50       14,00        4,50         4,0---                                                            -
14. F.~s po~r.:
(a) LoB  tsr p.~ ha..............23,530                                                  29,6140    314,8140    35,100     35,70C)   314,800     33,750     32,100     32,10       32,100      32,100       32,100      33,000       1000           -             - 
(b)14> A  i.~tr.................                                                          2,588      3,260         ,        3p ,861    3,927      3,80       3,713      3,531       3,531       3,531        3,531        3,531       1,650       1,100                   
1.000 8u99.bPL.  ..-                                   -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23,530  29,614  34,8140  35,1.00  -35,700  314,800    33,73      32,100      32,100      32,100       32,20       32,100       23,000      10,000           -       
00-18. f    iiiii                                    -               -          -:         -  -::   :- .-  .    -            -          -          -                      -           -            -         17,100      22,200      32,100        32,100        32,100
5,  6929031.4A 05       Re.dxI 0t
ts  RsO 'r. lAvIs  0054 tí  ................-                                                                                                                                                               -                       -
W04L  ~           ~           ~                     53.A3~~~    UAUI. 4.%,   R.M      24L       941..931, 197.87       .4.098     10343      9L4j,.    8L7U.         8I1A9       _86.0141     8L2J,         JP           2§~M        14s,460 
6.   ~.ted calI hIpe   t Tus,'
Ud  .(8............3.........42                                                                 432         AAO      4ft       *,32¡         4f4      ij191       J00         .0         1,278        4,907       3.J6         L7    .^                   410          L¡n
7.  loeusptl P~  vl*...............                                                              -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          --                        -           -                                                 70-
u=OA109O 09.   Al.0B0u~   b* 3 u        OA 001s410<   o  YoS of  ~e00  At 10% It~rs.
TOBAI? ~BP*P  Of tote  1sv.tP  05.
loB  .91  be.' ~sot  by - ~51A   1bak *t 2,1% b*1..44
P~ ~oot tsta  es.t of ~B ls*~Ot  flsmasd by d.,.lOles   LOA *M bo~rrova' oorlbutlol, but ,*41ob la mtA of bro.dIog .14,taj.od do.LO  der,looAt perbod.
.~ ap141o usid14 . <blBt lo  .385   ileber 1~    c- org 0t 04  eePprBPtv   'BO   .1ld h~ s. hib         Os, d1at.1batlo  Per of tb. .q.ctqd o.-h asPLO.



*                                                                                                         e                                                                 .*
L1YES!0(3C IEVEWHy flOmCa
Mod l 5 - otrehe-d Br----   Caetlr - 400 hf
n   t_te ef lt_Da ,at C at
e  elq
w                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F LASI8D  I11V I S 2 NBb S
--~'~~''~~~~~                                                                                                                                                            -------. eI--  -          _____ ___  ._
-------Tota  Co     .VwI Mbt-'--'     04                 o. of                      Mo. of                        No. of
eo. of       Dell                                                    latb4D  a          Delta        ~t              DeLa         WDt              CoIte         _ot
.l       Js.._                       ..tu&sd        San1                                    2_e             Co Tta              --lee- r 1----            ----Year 2------              ----  Y r 3   ----
C        lar ,         .10 ha 5, .............    100                 54,000            1,000       5.000             s0                 3 la      4,000             20 ha      1,000       *                    -
lat blt    t ,,                     200             ha 5.............. 0  1,200        4,800        6,000             810              IC0 ha      3,000             70 ha      2,100              10 ha         900
N       o.    ....................             2  ha        200          800 3,200                  4,000             so                -             -                                            100 ha      2.000
St rd St,e ..................5  .....5 .                   350           350           1,400       1,75               0               803   1,050                    2 h         700              -             -
Uateri,u Facllítiaa
l^qi¡pped lol h,,,,.1                                      2....    . ....             ......      ..2500  500  2,000  2,500  80         -            -               -                             1          2,500
D_ ,, , ,, , , ...... ^1I,O                     0          400             100         500             20               &¡500                          -           -                -             -
Bul Shads .,,  .....                                                   ...,            ,,1/3    3,0eo    500  500   1,000  50          -            -              113    1,000                  -              -
Stock Emadlina
Correas & Crahes ,.         .                                800          300             100         400             25                 -            -                            400
Spray lace..113                                             1,500         100             400         500             80                113           500                    -     -               -              -
Seales ..1,.......                               ,           600          150             650         800             80                 -            -                            800
Livestmk
B.11  - Imprtad ............    .....           2          8,000         800          15,200      16,000             95                  2        16,000                          -                              -
Bll|. - Local .6                                            2, 200     13, 200                     13, 200                      -                     -                3         6,600              3           6, 600
P.rebred  eLifer. lo CalO - laported..          11          2,000       1,100          20,900      22,000             95                  5        1000oo              3         6,000              3           6,000
Porebrad Eaf*r. 1-3 yea.- L.ol ....            13           s50        6,               -          6,500                                 6         3,000              4         2,3oe              3           1,50W
m.scellncoos at                                                           2.100           2.750       4.850              -                 _           2.150                       1.500                          1.200
TOTAL                                                          32.000          53.000      ,5.000             62                 _         40.200            _          24.100 I                       20.700
IN1



ha ji~~~~~~ M-E«
hE      - ,  r1  r  B~na conrnr - 400 h. 
ar    v1 a ,                                        ------a-------------T-------------~h Tuar-------------------
cto                                 i_ará            ta_rf               hu20a lA 1                           2                   A    1                  _           2           8-20
*lord Coaiotioa tbari
2ulla *.............................         1,100               2,0                    6              8          10          12          13         13          13          13            13
Stud  %resi7 Co                     *           560                670                130            155         204        245         250         250         20          2350          250
lvas.    ............o..r                        43                53                (120)          (12.)       (140)       (1*)       (221)       <235)       (225)       <245)         (225)
mleltr  9-24 nthr .       ...............       Z20                143                 5S             29          62          6          se         109         110         ¡l0           110
Sollo 9-24 atn  .. ................             400                445                 56             56          60         6(          85         103         105         ¡06           104
Storl-2l   th .é        ................        ti*                120                  2              3           3           3          5           3           S           6             4
HR lt      or 2-3 »r ...................Z       530                373                 16             03          61          27          24         24          2           24            24
Sull 2-3 y*r. .535...................           5»                 me                   5             55          53          59         65          84         102         103           101
*t--  2-3 y-r  ..........a .........            M                  180                  2              2           3           3          2           5           5           6             6
Frttisin  Cal r malu . ............eo           130                14a1-U                                        -U1         .16          2C         2           20         -LO            26
TOTAL  -D                                                                        474            2°         jiO          5          776         la          §a         U 1            S65
TOTAL SIL UiES                                                                   M              406        46          j2           i           0          6a4        t26           627
wantho 04~er1
'.111 ....., ..............................._______.. 
Xtud anodina e~   ......................                                                2              2           2          2           2           1           1           3             3
e*lv . ................................         -                  -                    4              2           3          3           4           4           5           5             5
Reitero 9-24 uontb .........                      ....1                                                ¡           1           1           1          1           1           1             1
JU la 9.74  ~the ........... ........          *1                                                      ¡           1          1           1           1           1           1             1
$t.;ra 9-24   nha ...........-                                                                  -                               
ReIt er  2-13    r  ........ .........          -                                                      -           1 
Sol1 2-3 Y~r   ........    ..........             .                                                              I 1          I          1                       1             
Oteora  2-3 yr  ...................                                                                      .                                                                     
Faiteioa¡ Cul  _-as ..-............aas--_
TOTAL DITS                                                                      -                 7        .           .            _           10          11          u             11
E.lia <aortad)  .         ...............    5. s.eo-                                                  2     -                       -                                        -             -        a
Eolia (ocl)        .....................     2,200                 -                                                          3           2           1           1           1             1
Porebrod hIfara 2-3 ya
¡apnad & 1-l  .......a.......              2.0                                                                              3             
Por-brad M¡lotar 1-2 ysro  <lo.al)              510                -                                 J                  4                 --
TAL  UA                                                                                        Ji            10                      2           1         -             1     
iouplua Balra  2-3 yan .                       *00 4.0                                 43              -           -         35          40          60          79         II            sO
S-plqa    Solía 2-3 yan .      .0                                  730                 49             54         54 24                   se          64          *3        101          1¡0
te-r 3-3l jy..r.1 SO                                               21o                                 2          2           53                      5           5          5             6
ColI lard S .l.          .00                                       220                  1                          1          1           1           1           1           1             1
c.l Cv.            .                           155                 170                 i              11    12    1S                     20          20    59    20                       20
CaiI ¡Iafa.ro 2-3 y.       . ..                 155                170       -        - A                                                                         5           3
TOTAL SALES                                                                      107             la         72         LS4          5          151         193        212           214
Tacbaloal Coaetioisata                                      Bal
Calvig <a(b)                                             1 7...                                       i5          90        9se          9           90          lo 93                    90
M-artaliltla  (a)  Alulto                                2                              s              1           1          1            1          1           1           1             I
(b)  Calvo. ¡ ...                          7 1                                           2           2          2           2           2           1                         a 2
Colla         () i ulls Cd   .                                                          3              5          5           3           3           2           5        
(b) Co    1t                                                                             8           8 *                    8             11  5     3fS
(c)  Coll Cclva                             2                                            3           5          5           3           5           5           5             5
(dS  laIfaXras -lyar             1            S                           a                               5           s                 s           s           s             s
Rolatioa Coatull.         .                           Com/llull                      #:             20:1       20:1        20:1        20:1        20:        20:1         2051         20:1
Forc-- toga Ct of  otlt  Nrd                             1                             j2             29         33           S          52          20          29          29           29
staokdl   S t   ../A3                                                                 11             1:1       .9:1        .:1 .I71                .3:1        .3:1 1      5:1           5:1
Carryiqa Capalty   .... .                                                             6: 1 u6:1                5:1        55:1         3:1         5:1        '3:1        *5*1          5:1
Oatoyt lao.1                                                                           23             13    16    17    14    18    22    25                                               23
l~o-torC--tio  rsd ILobí
St.oa  3-3tá y  .r.        .                   220    ka40C0       230                  -             .4         .4          .7          .7          .7         1.2         1.2           1.4
Cull*rd Elulo.    o (~d)                        250                260                 3               -          .5         .2          .3 .1                   .3         .5             .3
Cul Cavo.                                      200                 220                2.2            2.2        2.4         3.2         4.0         4.4         4.4        4.4            4.5
Cal Oa¡far .130                                                    15< .                               1. .. 4..                          s          2 -. 8.                J              J
TOTAL    SSRD  W                                                                                           ll 2  i 2 7  4  6       5 5    0                     6      .7  7          0
Ircr_td  re..d W ht ..i ....                                                                           (0.2)       0.         2.0         2.6         3.1         3.8         3.8          4.1
/  ThOC  tya of r-oh Lo   Catd  bat  -t a_uaa Illy>    b= oa a.                          ---- arar ,   r.n o  ..s.rabrad parotio  of tba rh la a tad to  adrt   * 040 *td-d
of dvalao        * tludlqc po~turo iproant.
1/  anOrard  catla v ais ae    atod ta rao aba_t 101 1l 2ar 5   atly                t  an  ar st la quoity of proay thobreud ItaprC  ti1,ao                   a~   a r t _a
Yrajoat os i prova  aa5a     oS arioiaaal a*t_ar4
3/  8b qoality         l.  artd  lo ie ar.ao  harÉ atar    of a ro  rada---  -t o-.lob   o    local orra.e
/  Culliag portolagea prajoao  doliberataly  o  becase nlt o             taa  ~te' aí 11upd   taad  niala v~Id bh  ntilad fwa  m cba              lly long  arid o   ~uId
dia oc ch  rnc  ra..  o  ubr- bao th l h.  I rt a.   c   pretL. d r    vtb  nrc- l It2.-
/   atar-lor tala anot oulabla Lar rntoaain a tle rc  atd  aud a  t. q"liíy c--toctationa ata.  bot  -uId be sld a  br«ng  mlsal.1
Auga.t 28, 1972



noda 5 -LarbradIrodina Contar - 600 ha
Bstímate of Sls&Oaa            ot
ftr  Val~             zafora~00  antvaar
Par Usad Talas      autora             ~~~~--- -------------------------   -       -       Enob Ta-----------------------------
~apino MaLFar  (2- pr") .........                                   440                17.20                              -1,00                        16.000          264034,800                      35300             35.200
Blarpíua llo (2-3 pro  ........                  60                 730               32,300           35.600          35,600           35,6U0         38.300          44,700          60,600          71,700            74,500
tero (3-34 vra)  1..0.210..-..---so--           ¡lo                                                                                                        co             toe4          1,100           1.100             13
cili lord saila (eg) .........                  20                  220                   10                               0 00           200                             200             no              200               200
Cali Cs ...............                         135                 170                 1,700           1,700           1,800            2,500          3,100           3,400           7,400           3,400             3,400
Cali Usaflra <2-3 pra)               *           5                   7                 ....            ,a......a13103»ms                               ....           .....z         m.....               §u...
nO  C     n~                                                               5AS 0S 31a                                                                                      ML               ma~                LU
Fa~                            1             ~~~~~~~~~~1,200 P.A.    1,200            íao             1,200            1,200          1,200           1,400           1,400           1,400             1.900
C~                                3 5~;..         1,000 p.a.             3,000            4~00            4,000            3,000          5.000           3,000           3,500           s,3               5,300
loor Labor   1 .         ,      .3.3                           900 P.A.              2,700           3.600           3.600            4.300          4.500           4,500           3,000           3,000             5.500
Dtpp                             *                               /oa                    0              600             600              700            6000            90              900             900                900
Niasrala 1 ..................                                                        1,200            1,400          .1.500            1, 700        1,900           2,100           2,200            2,200             2,200
Votariar  .............                                      1.40thoa                  700              900            900            1,0             ,10120                           ,00120                            ,0
Orlar  ...............                                       0.80/had                  400             400             500               00           6me              700              700             700               700
PA*trare  ..............                                       10/ha                 2,000            2,000           2,000            3,000         3,000           4,000           4.000            4,00              4,000
toaras             ,                        31~~~~~~~~~~~5 of Vaina     600              600             600             600            700              100             600             90                600
«arar                                       51~~~~~~~~~~~~~ of Val.o   -                                 -00             30              0 .-0                                           404
Enlidinga                                                 101 of Vaina-                                                                                 LS 0  w  0  0  1,000          1,00            1,000             1,000
Corrala                  .....                            107. of Valuo                600              600             600              600            600             600              00             800               80
NU.aohfry                                                 101 of VaIna                 500              800           1,200            1,200          1,200           1,200           1,500           1,500             1,500
Vahídlos                                                  101 of Va.uo                 400              300             600              600            600             00              600             do                600
Vertillser                                                     15/ha                 3,000            4,500           5,000            5,000          6,000           6,000           6,000           6~00              6,000
Fuel 6 Luabricato
~ísiary ..............000 hra.p.s.                                                   1,000            1,200           1,1200           1,200          1,200           1,200           1,200           1,200             1,200
Validtes..............15.000 ha. p.a.                                                1,200            1,500           1,501.0    1.500                        1,500           1.500           1,500            1,500    1,0
Livoarocí Putcano
Eolia (local)                                             2,2001head                 4,400                             -                .             4,400           2,200           2,200           2,200             2,200
Sanrancea sd ¡tai Fac  ......14-2,000 p.a.                                           1 400            1.600           1.60             3,            2.92            _2.000          2,,W             2.000-00
Sub-total                                                                      25.400           25.900          27.700      ~    31.400         32,000          37.000          38.90-0         36.900            38.900
Cotaera   101)                                                                  2j600             2.600           20               3.100          3.200           3.700         4±192>60                            3 600
TOTAL 0pfl.T2  EXPESES                                                         280.00)          28.300          30.400           34.500         35,200          40.700          43S22           42. 50            43.30
¡st Operatiog -Inc    ..........                                                       23.900            9.400           8.200           19.70          23,600          37,300          56.000           72.00             73,L
.4ona Iocrmoetal Operaring Incoa ...                                                     -             (14,500)        <15,700)         <4,200)           (300)         13,400          34,100          46.11UD           49,100
II 06*3.00 por dey lnc1nding 231 social aacurity.
2/ 08*2.50 par day incIdl.ng 23% acetal sccnrtty.O
3/    por Quintal of coafrcio1l tkco, cadhancica) rocotving  75 pon por dey.



~e1 5 - urabr d Xr"dtt.t Canter
F      irQ~1  .rol*Qttooe
mU$ I.«twl n
"                                            b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¡fore
rIO_     t                    2          2          4                                Z          a         _1                      11         12          13          14-19          20
1  Sala                                 ,,            51.900        37.900      38,600     54,200    58,d00    78,000'  lo0,o0       114,5D0    115.500    115,5U0     115,500     115,500     1IS,S0o     115,500       115,500      11,500
2. lo  Te~ I~Owet_      ;
(a>  1.1o0     Lo         .   . ... ..                          32,200      19,300     16,600      -          -          -          -          -          -           -           -           -           -                          -
(b)   errfr  CoXtth,tt. . - ..      ,,,             -            S,OOO      4,800      4,100             -       -       -                     -          -           -           -           -           -            -
3.    1~   Capital a..&t-
(a)  tret    TYere Cab Baa.. ..                     -           18,90U      23,300     23.300    32.850       -          _          -          -                      -           _           _           _             _            _
(6)  Short Te. 1~ for COPwtio
e        .        ...............                   -            -           -         -                -          -          -         -          -           -           -                 -            -            -
4. Lon for Te.der Stee                                                _           -                                -          -        _-          -          -           -           _           --          -
TOTAL                                $1.900        97. 0        6,00      98.200    91,650      78.000    101,000    114.500    115.500    115,500     115.5D0    115.500                 115.500       113.50       115is
1  L~  Tero 1ew.eoet-'
(->  0D       £ Le   2/ ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.            -           32.200      19,300    1,600        -          -          -         -          -          -           -           -           -           -             _            _
(t)  porroeer, Ctrlbutio.           .               _            8,000       4,800      4,100       -
2. Opar          za"rS.
[a-  Clvtw  Loa. Itetent *nd
rhda   of leadr steere                     78,UOD        28,500      30,400     34.500     35,200    40,700      43,0C0     42,500     43,500     43,500     43,500      43,500       43,300     43,500        *3,500       43,5EO
(6)  1n Iotereet:
<1) 0. Short Ter. for OperatIng
£ e    ..........- . . . .                                                                                                                                              
(tí) On Dlo~t L~u  .........-                                            35,720     5, 5       6,810      5,110      3,410       -         -          -           -           _           _           _             _            _
3. Loa. E~epematsa
(a>   Sbort Tr   m Operation  tepe....              -             -           -          -          -                     _         _                     _           _           _           _           ,             _
(65   Dv.lopt Lo   37 .......... .                                -           -                   17,000     17,000     17,000     17,100                  _          _           _            _          _             _            _
4   A raméte M.t   requítr..to for
R~a' LfvfDg Cose. .... ...5 O.OD.                                                     .00       5,0        5.000      6.000       6000      6.000      6  000       7 0        7.000        7.900    ...°°°6.000                  8.000
WT0L                                  33.00D        73,7DD     b2,720     65350      64.010     67.810     69,410     67.310    49 5SD      49.500      5-05        50. SOO     SO SO                    51.500       51.500
5 .    aetad CaD zalat.et eaerra ¡d                    38.900       23.0        231300    22  50    27.640       10.1       31590    47,190    66 0          66.    5000             650         65 0        65000         4           64 .000
6.  nCrto.zl rOrd Vlu  -               .-                                             -           -          - .                                          - .                                                        -                163.600
3/ Wwt1y parent of tOtal invitment cott.
2/ Lprao  ate total en t of s  Lrveetao_ta firaocad by davIop t loe. a.d borr.ra' cootríbu.to., b.t íh.ch * r.t of breed¿ta stock retefoed during deelo_ent parlod.
_l Bn d m four  aelr repant perlod, sith ihree ymí of rcace.
e.                                                                                                                                                                                            



LIVEBTOCK DCERLO2Rtn 280.185
Laitate of Inves---t Cost f r Teehoical sud Coemlt*sct Sao-olees
(oSS'000 Caoivaleat,
tíit       ------Total Cost -----             Fo-eig,       lo. of                  Re. uf                  8. of                   loof                    Re   f
8o   f    Con                Fonigia                  S,chae        Cofta       Aoout       Cuita       A-ci        Celi        Asocut      [uio.       Aooot       Culta        ~eot
te.jent Nmagt ji15 e- y.24,000                                               1.0         180.0        360.         50            3           72.0       3            72.0       3           72.0          3          72.0       3            72.0
Ado.iuitrativa Offieor.5 *ytu.  7,500                                         375          -           37.5        -             1            7.        1             7.0       1             7.5         1           7.3       2             7.5
Ocaleo Líveatuc  Techaiotao
(Graduates) ...................22 -yra.  7,500                             165.0         -          165.0        -3                       22.5        4           30.0        5           37.5         5           37.5       5            37.5
Livsstuck Techeicteas
(Dipícatea >...................48 *yo..  3,000                             144.0         -          144.0                     a           24.0       10           30.0       10           30.0        10          30.0      10             30.0
S-eoostcls......................                         .        3,000       15.0         -           15.0        -1                         3.0       1            3.0        1            3.0          1          -3.0       1             3.0
mlaeago r edDivr10 eyta.  200 O                                               2.         ......       .22           .            2          ,4J          2            4.0        2            4.0         2           4.0       2             4.0
0c6-totaí .................                                        6-         180.0        741.5.       24                       133.0C                  146.5                   1-54.0150
Teoh.íciaa  proí Li...............120   yo--.  1,000                         120.0         -          120.0        -            13           13.0      23            23.0      29           28.0        28           28.0      28            28.0
Opeotile  of VYbcles ...............120 Yuc-                        80        48.0        40.0         96.0        30           13           10.4      23            18.4      20            22.4        28          22.4      28            22.4
Office.........upanas......    5yesat  10,000                           40.j        10.0        JQ.&         20            1           10.0       1            10.0       110.0                     110.0                 í0.
3ob-teCol ..................                                       0           58.0        266.0        22                        33.4                    51.4                    60.4                    60.4                    6.
ltseasro  of Ase..ietopíc     VA ............                                   123.0         -          123.0        -12.0                                             21.0                    30.0                    30.0                    30.0
Vehi.lso.......................15                                 4.000       12.8        51.2         64.0        00           11          44.0        5            20.0        -                        --                    -             -
Offi.e Eqíuleet sed FooItere ..........-                          8.000        3.6         6.4          8.0        80            -            9.0       -            -                       -----
Techeioal gqctpset ...............              .      -          2.000       0.4io        1.6          2.0        80                         2 .0      -                                                                  
Seb-ttal ................14.8                                                  59.2         74t.0       ¡j                        54.0                    20.0-- 
Toafotee Fr.so~  ..................10                                5,000                   50.0         50.0       100                        3LQ0                  ]DL.                      15.0
C---scitst SaniosaQ
Tropical Paetera.............6ao.uth. 6,000                                    -          36.0         36.0       100            2           12.0        2           12.0        2           12.0----
L-tvstok FeortlOty & Ropeoducití             .         6. t.ehs  6,000                    3 6.0        36.0       100            2           12.0       2            12.0        2           12.0----
Atientio Cosst Study .-..............17.0                                                 50.0         07.0        735                       23.0        -25.0                   ----                                           -
Scb-tota.117.0   132.0   139.0   áR                                                                                               49.0                    49.0                    24.0         --                     --
li1ocai  mas.~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            ~~~~~~~80.0  122.8  202.8  60           41.9                    00.1                    64.6                    12.4          ~12.6
Sob-toti................                                        1.004.3       592.0      1.596.3        37                       343.3                   391.0                   348.0                   257.0                    257.O
frite Coatiaecwie. ( s%)>    ....................ga                                           3,0          3,7        A                          2.7                   ....                      -- 
TOTAL TECHRIC6I. SiRVICS  COT .........                            flLa,      595.0      1 600.0        27346.0                                          3 92.0                    L-                    257.023.
~/The figure aho   -  »coube  of coito" ioc1edes 3 secbera of Projeot Manageeet - ProJect Director, Agrfcoltorel EcoaoeLet sed Daioy Po-doctí So poc.ioia  -aployed f.o
o psotod of fí-s yesos (3 u 5 - 13). The ".alt o..ot' repr-eusto the aveosg.aoseol coat feo oes  a-year inc1.diag aoioy sed other eliovo.ceo.
~/Toe reatO  -an-e  osíleares ployod by MSA snd secocld tó tOe podiect tu i ..ege 10 breeu!fng/fattsoiog oso.heo ofeetaio  fíosowed frma 904 bdlget
31l ApplOsa ooly te equipeet por.ohtses.






~~~~Wc                                                      --~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                            :
_~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~~ ~~~ee cOO'c. Ie                                   ecee                                 eeC                   ceO         cece                               ecee.e 1  _ W'   e-e ccc              ece               WeW                                         e -   ece   cee                                 cecee                                 __                               .;uw
-NZ'S                                                                                       1 ce ' 9. . -'E                     1 WW'S-  Eç1 EZ                                                                             -        O         0 .  2. 1., w
---- --                                                                         ----- --  - --                    ------- ----c---   ------ cece---ce-e---e -c                           e------e ------------                             -- -----                 .. --------------                      ------ -------                     cec-------------e,-   ---- ------------
nos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     E               Ea                                    «c"                                                ecje,               ceee             neC                                                           El EN .l ecec                                                      see ezw
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                        -                    «WW    tenr    an                               -l cene Olu            arr                             Meec           e,l
Uta'rsl   DOD'tI;                             Wo'IZ               wnee   eee     WOe  cWOe eec c                                      ee .c           eec            .c    ce             c eee               =c ce            ecc           e,                         WWc ee e           eow  c   e ee                  cece               eeec              ec c             eec           ce   eec                             ceceeec    c
ercer-I                    /e cee ee. nae                               .cc            arr           ce eec.                na  ,  .er        nace            cr             ces-   eecc    ,_    a    W aa           na,w            >D             c, cn               aee  ce                  c,eB n         nc            .c ce -e  ec                            ce ceq3          ce            ce-  e /l
------ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ cee                 ce&c          ceee                    eece             ecece           eece--         .c--  cee            ceeecc--            eeee .W.e                       cc ceec                  eeecc               ecec -c                     cece                  cec               cee              ee            e
eecce  cce  cecee ce,e      eeee              ec cc ec                           ce                 ece             ee,          ceee                 ceee                 eece               ee.c eee                             e&e                 cece            ec           cece                 ceceeceec ce cececce 
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eeee                                                               oc           eccceccee






PANAMA                       ANNEZ 14
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Import Duties of ProJect Related Items
Percent of
Ex Factory
Coet
In3ecticides, fungicides, disinfectants                       11
Veterinary medicines                                         free
Semen                                                        free
Milking machine and similar eqci¡mpent to
farms producing milk, including accessories & supplies       11
Other machines and mechanical tools, cutters
and forage machines including                                11
Machines and agrictultural equipment to harvest,
mow, thrash, separate, classify and cultivate including
accessories, supplies and apare parts                        free
Tractors except steam machines, including apare parte         free 1/
Trailer                                                       free
Barbed wire of iron or steel and plain .wre                   6.01
Galvanized nalls of iron or steel                             6.02
Ungalvanized naila of iron or steel                           6.02
Cramps to iron or steel fences                               6.01
Crolurmns, pedestals, towers and poeta of iron or steel
aseembled or with parta                                       26
Bacteriological products, whqy and cowpoxs to
veterinarian use                                            free
Corbs, ropes, cables and ary textile filament                6.15
Hand tools                                                     11
Four wheel drive vehicles                                      16
Fertilizer                                                    free
Cattle Scales                                                  26
1/   Tractors used for non-agricultural purposes (construction work) are imposed
by a tax of about 20%.
2/  Trailers with sides are imposed by a tax of about 20%. Sides can locally be
attached and cost about $150 to $200.
SOURCE: Contraloria General de la Repuiblica
Direccion de Estadistica y Censo,
Panama City, July 1972
August 28. 1972






= " * ... ~~~~~~~~P A Nd ' 
_ ...                                          LIVESTOCK DEv liPOJ EGT                    _
Axnnual Phasing of Investments ani bissuroaaans
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Year:  ...          ..      1                  2                   3                  4                  5                  Total
Jk1MUAL PRASING OF PROJECT INVESTMENT
Model 1                                                        95.0              228.0              266.0                76.0                -                  665.0
Model 2                                                       840.0            1,750.0            1,425.0              650.0               135.0              4,800.0
Model 3                                                       700.0            1,750.0            1,625.0               800.0              225.0              5,100.0
Model 4                                                       110.0              152.5               124.4               51.7               11.4                450.0
Model 5                                                       160.0              217.0              275.7               134.4               62.1                850.0
Total Ranch Investmenta:                        1,905.8           4,097.5             3,716.1            1,712.1              433.5             11,865.0
Technical Services                                            347.0              392.0              348.0               257.0              256.0              1.600.0
Total Project Cost:                            2_252 8            4 489.5            40641               19691                 89.5              3465.
DISBURSEMENTS-1
Ranchero' Contribution to Investmente                         381.0                                                    _3420                87.0              2.373.0
Financial Institutions:
Development Loans                                        857.5            1,844.0            1,672.1              770.4               195.0              5.339.0
Technical Servitas                                       246.0              194.0              168.0              127.0               130.0                RAS n
Total:                                          1203.5             &3S O0.1                                897.4              32 
Goverrnent:
Technical Services - Asen5amientos                        12.0               21.0               30.0               30.0                30.0                123.0
Purebred Breeding Center2-                                                    8.0                5.0                4.0                 -                   17.0
Miscellneous                                             13.0               24.0               16.0                                                        53.0
Total:                                            25.0                530                5-0                34.0               30                   193.0
IBRD-
Development Loans                                        658.0            1,416.0            1,284.0              592.0               150.0              4,100.0
Technocal and Consultant Services                        129.0              145.0              129.0               96.0                96.0                595.0
Total:                                            787,0            1.561.0            1.413.0              688 0              246.0              4,695 0
P¶hsing of IBRD Loan in Percent:                               17                 33                 30                  15                  5                  100
1/ Disbursements are based on a proponed cost sharing that on average total investments on ranch development would be fínanced as follows:
BdP/BDA/Private Banks    457
Ranchero' Contribution   20%.
IBRD                      35%                                                                                                                                       . ,
2/  Paid by IDA - 20% of development cost - for development of purebred breeding center at Divisa Agricultural School, and of Buena Vista
and Gualaca Experinent Stations.



ANNEX 15
Table 2-
PANM
LIVESTM   DEYLOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of  LlarerIY DbursementU
IBRD                                     Cumulative
Fiscal Year                                Disbursementa
and Quarter                               at End of Quarter
(US$ 1000 Equival4nt)
1973¿ 4
September 30, 1973                           100
December 31, 1973                            300
March 31, 1974                               500
June 30, 1974                                800
197X/75
September 30, 1974.                        1,200
December 31, 1974                          1,600
March 31, 1975                             2,000
June 30, 1975                              2,1400
1975/76
September 30, 1975                         2,800
December 31, 1975                          3,200
March 31, 1976                             3,500
June 30, 1976                              3,800
1976/77
September 30, 1976                         4,000
December 31, 1976                          4,100
March 31, 1977                             4,200
June 30, 1977                             44,300
1977L7
September 30, 1977                         4,1400
December 31, 1977                          4,500
March 31, 1978                             4,600
June 30, 1978                              4,7o0
January 2, 1973



ANNEX 1 6
Page
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference and Qualificationa for
_ T'echnical and Consultant Servíces
Prolect Director
1.        Duties and Responsibilities.  The Project Director wculd be required
for five development years and would have, inter alia, the following specífic
duties and responsibilities, which he could delegate in part to the technical
staff of the Project organiíation. Re wculd:
(a) manage and execute the Project in accordance with policies
and procedu es of the borrower;
(b)  cooperate with the management of participatirg financial
institutions In accomplishing Project objectives;
(c)  recomxend to participating financial institutions secondment
of such staff to his office and as approved by him, as he
considers necessary to carry out Project activities^
(d)  train and supervise the technical staff, including managers
of asentanientos, in the technical and economic aspects of
ranch development and livestock production in connection
with individual ranch investment plans;
(e'  give final technical approval and recommend to the management
ef particípating financial institutions ranch investment plans
for loan action;
(f) introduce to Project sub-borrowers techniques such as
tropical pasture and legume establishment and controlled
grazing management systems for improved and natural
tropical pastures; provide design and specificatíons for
oni-ratich Arass and legume seed multiplicatlon plota and
efficient techniques ini low-cost land clearing; assist
in determining layouts for ranch structures and stock-
handling facilities; make recommendations in regard to the
selection and purchase of breeding stock; and provide guidance
to sub-bhrrowers and Project technicians in livestock and
meat mnarketing;
e



ANNEX 16
Page 2
(g)  provide the supervision and technical assistance necessary to
ensure successful completion of each ranch investment plan and
loan;
(h)  establish and maintain ranch records for sample ranches, as
required for Project evaluation;
(i) assist and cooperate with special consultants engaged under
the Project;
(j) make recomimendations to the proper authorities in partici-
pating banks with respect to:
(1)  remuneration for Project staff and other compensation
necessary to attract the most qualified personnel
available; and
(íi) recruitment, suspension, or removal of Project staff;
(k) prepare the annual budget for the Project Management Unit;
(1) prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for submission
to BNP for transmittal to the Bank; and
(m) coordinate and cooperate with the MDA/FAO Pasture Research
Project team at David and with all other agencies of Gov-
ernment related te the livestock sector.
2.        Qualifications.  The Project Director shall have the following
minimum qualifications:
(a) a university degree in agriculture or allied science such as
animal husbandry;
(b)  a broad professional experience in commercial beef ranch and
sÚiall dairy fazm developmert in tropical and subtropical
conditiona; and
(c)  experience in the use of credit for ranch development, with
ability to prepare and appraise technically sound and finan-
cially viable investment plans.
In case an expatriate is contracted, a working knowledge of the Spanish
language would be preferable.
Agricultural Economist
3.         Dutíes and Responsibilties.  An agricultural economist would be
required to assist the Project Director and participating financial institu-
tions in evaluating the economic aspeots of investment plans and setting up



ANNEX 16
Page 3
data retrieval mechanisms. He would be required for five development years
and would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) assist the Project Director in overall operations and help
in the selection and training of Project technicians, par-
ticularly with respect to financial analyses of investment
plans and monitoring project results;
(b) make recommendations on the economic viability of investment
plans;
(c) review and analyze the livestock credit portfolios of par-
ticipating financial institutions and provide the Project
Director with necessary financial data on which to base
lending strategies;
(d)  monitor Project results, keep close watch over costs and prices
of Project-related in-puta, and suggest necessary action to
take in case of significant variations that might adversely
affect Project plans;
(e) coordinate closely with the economic specialists of the MDA/FAO
Pasture Research Project at David and with all other agencies
of Government related to livestock development;
(f) prepare and submit quarterly and annual progress reports to
the Project Director;
(g) establish farm and ranch accounts systems for optional adoption
by participating ranchers and farmers; and
(h) advise and assist participating sub-borrowers in preparing
economically suitable investment plans.
4.        Qualifications.  The Agricultural Economist shall have the followíng
minimum qualificatíons:
(a) a uníversity degree or its equivalent in agricultural economics,
with emphasis on farm management and production economics;
(b)  experience in the use of farm credit and ability to prepare and
control an adequate data collection system; and
(c) a broad professional experience in agriculture in Latin America
or in a country of similar sociological and production conditiona.
In case an expatriate is contracted, a good working knowledge of the Spanish
language would be preferable.
e



ANNEX 16
Page 4
Dairy Production Specialist
5.        Duties and Responsibilities.  The Dairy Production Specialist shall
asá;ist the Project Director and his staff in the implementation and supervision
of all dairy-production-related aspects of the Project. He shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
(a) assist the Project Director in introducing and encouraging
intensive smallholder dairy production in Panama, utilizing
the results and designs of the MDA/PAO Research Station at
David;
(b) formulate and implement technical training programs for Project
technicians and participating farmers;
(c) develop a simple uniform system for keeping records on all
Project farms involved in dairy production, includíng data on
breeding, production, expenses, and income, and compare results
with the respective dairy development plans so that Project
impact can be measured;
(d)  ensure that every Project farm is provided with technical
assistance and adequate veterinary sérvices;
(e)  assist in preparing, approving, or rejecting dairy develop-
ment plans; and
(f) assist participating farmers in the procurement of farm
machinery and livestock.
6.        Qualifications.  The Dairy Production Specialist shall have the
foLlowing mínimum qualifications:
(a) a university degree, diploma, or equivalent experience in
dairy production;
(b)  experience in working with smallholder dairy farms, preferably
under tropical and/or Latín American conditiona; and
(c) experience with tropical dairy production techniques, nutrition,
and marketing, and ability to design and control an adequate
farm record system.
In case an expatriate is contracted, a workíng knowledge of the Spanish
language would be preferable.
Tropical Pasture Specialist (Consultant)
7.         Duties and Responsibilities.  This specialist would have the follow-
ing duties and responsibilities and would be assigned under the Project, if
required, in the first two development years. He would:



ANNEX 16
Page 5
(a) determine the most suitable grass, forage, and legume types for
Panamanian conditions, taking lnto consideratíon:
(M)  establishment and cultivation techniques;
(ii)  economic rates of seeding;
(iii)  response to and need for fertilizers; and
(iv)  tropical pasture management, stocking rates, and the
effect of improved pasture on tanching economics;
(b) investigate the cheapest methods of renovating existíng pastures
and compare costs of such work perfórmed manually and mechanic-
ally;
(c) provide guidance on the timing and most economic methods of
performing pasture maintenance, including weed and regrowth
control, refertilization, and reseeding;
(d) make recommendations as to the best methods of fertilization,
comparing alternative costs of nitrogen introduction and fix-
lo                     ation to pastures; the need for phosphatic and trace mineral-
reinforced fertilizers; and required amounts for inítial and
maintenance applícations;
(e)  formulate a plan for pasture and legume seed multiplication
for Project beneficíaries, using local and imported foundation
seed; and
(f) coordinate and cooperate with the MDA/FAO Research Station at
David in pílot investigations on the yíeld of tropical pastures
and the development of rangeland pasture.
8.        Qualifications.  The Tropical Pasture Specialist shall have the
following minimum qualifications:
(a) B.S. degree or equivalent in agriculture, with considerable
experience in extension or applied research with tropical
pastures, particularly at the ranch level; and
(b)  experience in selection of tropical legumes and grasses and
the laying out of simple apecies selection and fertilizer
trials and knowledge in rhizobium requirements of tropical
legumes, seed production, and pasture management.
In case of expatriate is contracted, a working knowledge of the Spanísh
language would be preferable.



ANNEX 16
Page 6
Animal Reproduction and Fertility Specialist (Consultant)
9,        Duties and Responsibilities.  This specialist would be required
on an annual-visit basis for t.ie first three development years. His duties
and responsibilities would require him to-
(a) determine the reasons for the relatively low fertility in the
natural herd of Panama and, more specifically, in the herds
of the participating ranchers and farmers under the Project;
(b)  investigate and advise on methods for improving herd repro-
ductive performances, with special emphasis on:
(i) survival supplementation;
(íi) male and female fertility testing procedures; and
(iíi) use of artificial breeding techniques on an expanding
basis, particularly within the dairy sub-sectors;
(c) train technical staff and participating ranchers and farmera in
fertility testing techniques; artificial insemination; pregnancy
diagnosis; veterinary controls (breeding, diseases, and such);
oestrus detection under range and stable conditions; and semen
collection, evaluation, dilution, and storage;
(d) review the national system of artificial breeding services
available to farmers and make recommendations for improvement
in efficiency and reduction of breeding costs to farmers;
(e) establish a coordinated system of artificial insemination
services for the Project; and
(f)  coordinate and cooperate with the MDA/FAO Research Station in
David in all reproduction and fertility aspects of the Project.
10.       Qualificatíons.  The Animal Reproduction and Fertility Specialist
slhall have the following minimum qualifications:
(a) a university degree in animal husbandry (also preferably a
Masters or Ph.D in the Physiology of Reproduction);
(b)  experience in all aspects of reproduction and fertility
problems in tropical and/or Latín American countries; and
(c) experience in artificial insemination systems, organization,
and economics.
e



ANNEX 16
Page 7
In case al expatriate is contracted, a working knowledge of the Spanish
language would be preferable.
Feasibility Study for Livestock Development on the Atlantic Coast
11.       The study shall determine the feasibility of more extensive exploit-
ation of about 2.6 million ha of presently underutilized land for livestock
production. Priorities of regions and phasing of development should be
indicated, based on production potential and projected return. The primary
goal of the study would be to locate an optimum region within the total area
that should have priority in development under a future Project. The study
should, inter alía:
(a) describe the proposed Project;
(b) appraise the natural resources in the Project area, providing
data on classification by land and soil type; water resources;
forms of land use and land tenure; types and sizes of livestock
operations; size of agricultural resources; and the intensity
of present and programed utilization;
(c) indicate prices presently received by livestock producers,
location and size of livestock markets, marketing systems
and market prospects, costs, and approximate demand for
local consumption, considering anticipated population growth;
and
(d) delineate a livestock Project in this area, detailing:
(i) type of operation and borrowers;
(ii) investment items;
(iíi) Project cost; and
(iv) benefits.
This study, which would complement the broad feasibility study of livestock
development in the Eastern Region and Bocas del Toro, would require about
seven to eight »mnths' work.
March 1973






Protmeto  of ?rolact ¡06. ?
(189 '000 ¡qfvl.dmlt
ftojwt Ye~ ,
1          2          3          4          5          6          7                      9         10         11         12         13          14         15         16         Total
a~  7~Df
hv.1oDat loae                               653      1,416      1,284        592         10   .                                                                                                                               4.100
red~   & C          ~  8s«                  129        145        129          96         f6          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -         595
_ LtcieXí    ~  &  oc                t  f«:
Dna1oh.t Ion.                               867      1,861      1,689        778         197          -          -          -          -          -           -          - -                    -          -          -        ,392
T~cal & C aleat es ces                      218        247        219         161        160          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -       1,005
u ~,,n  by a- -'aa.,¡
I2er.at 10%                                   -        153        480         778        915        949        908        803        668        332         397        261        12m          31          -          -       7,000
Rs ty_e _                                            _          _           -                                                     .  403 L2    356  L   1.356      135 6      ..           30           _           -       9.492
Tota1:                   1 872      3.822      3.801     27.05        1518       1.357        =        2.9        2.024     Id          L753       L61        L,n          35            -          -
AlCATO M   r 0    Ds
1ma   to Borrm  for ¡h  D~lot               1,525      3,277       2.973      1.370        347                     -          -           -          -          -          -                -                -          -        9,492
Te~cal 6 c e«  e           e0 s                347        392        348         257        236          -                -          -          -          -           -          -           -          -                -       1,600
28RD Ln  ¡aayu /V
.et 7-114%                                              58        174         276        312        335        314        291        266         239        211         180        147        111         73         33        3,020
ipal                                          -                      -          -          -        295        315        335        360         383        415        450         480        520        550        595        4,700
ce   e rz                                     -          s2        17           7          3          -          -          -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -          -           56
8.ovr  of Prtlc4mateln  Bak and
G     e   rund_7                               -         66        289         495        600        727      1,328      1,533      1,398       1,264      1,127         173          -          -          -           -       9,000
Ampl Caah sgal~                                         --- z         -      -  e                    _                               -        -_--                         814        446       (293)      (623        (L28)       (284
Total:                   L.872      3.822      3.801       2.405      1.318      1.357      1.957      2.159      2.024                  1.753      1617        1073                      - _                27.384
¡1  Bued mn  tbed araag  of proj eod  ~la, aboat four ye     of groce, seven yrs re~_.t.
2/   d   mo rqp_t .ithín 15 y.ara, tncíliog dx% Yar  of grame.
3/ Dle1o_t loa   of obout U9S5.4 111., 87 I.terest to BNP of c tbou  US$2.6 nillion, toc~ l .nrvi.e aboobt U9$1.0 ullío, mr total at  U9S9.0 IdllADO, reord fblly by y~ar 12.






ANNEX 18
Page 1
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
IBRD to BNP
(1)  Interest rate at 7.25% per annum;
(ii)  commitment charge at 0.75%;
(iii) repayment in 16 years, including five years of grace;
(iv)  IBRD would disburse 45% of eligible loan releases
made by participating banks; and
(y)  BNP would assume the foreign exchange risk.
BNP to BDA and Participating Banks (PB)
()  Interest rate at 8% per annum;
<ii)  BNP would refinance 45% of eligible loan releases;
(iii)  repayments to BNP on same terms as granted sub-borrowers
by BDA and PB; and
(iv)  BDA and PB would assume credit risk for loans
granted by them.
BNP, BDA and PB to Sub-Borrowers
(1>  Interest rate a mínimum 10% per annum;
(ii)  sub-borrowers would contribute on average 20%
of total long- and medium-term investments fron their
own resources;
(iíi) repayment periods would be flexible, reflecting the
forecast cash flow of the investment plan being financed,
e                           and would range from seven to 12 years, including grace
periods of three to four years as follows:



ANNFX 18
Page 2
Years Repayment      Grace    Total       Enterprise
8               4        12      Small Dairy Parm
6               3         9     Beef/Dairy Farm
8               4        12      Breeding/Fattening
Ranch
8               4        12      B/F (Asentamiento)
4               3         7      Purebred
Breeding Center
Other Conditions
(i) All sub-loans in excess of US$100,000 would require
prior IBRD approval;
(ji) no more than 60% of each sub-loan shall be used for
purchase of breeding cattle. No limitation, however,
would be applied for purebred breeding center invest-
ment plans;
(iii) BNP, BDA, PB livestock technicians, and asentamiento
managers would assist the applicants in the preparation
of detailed investment plans, income and expenditure
estimates, and cash flows and would appraise the plans
in terms of incremental returns and management capacity;
(iv)  BDA would grant loans only up to a maximum of US$12,00)
equivalent with the exception of sub-loans granted to
iiasent¿i-eíitos, which would have no limits;
(v) The Project Management Unit and technical staff would
ensure, through periodic visits, that funds used were for
intended purposes;
(vi)  BNP, BDA, and PB would be responsible for providing
sufficient short-term funds, including seasonal re-
quirements, so as to enable the beneficiary to carry
out his investment plan; and
(vii) Livestock sub-borrowers would take adequate measures
for protection of animal health (regular vaccinations
and dipping, and such).
March 1973



ANNEX 19
Page  1
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk and Beef Marketing
1.        The Panama market for beef and dairy producta is favorable, with
demand for beef, milk, and dairy products on the increase. Domestic
production so far, however, has been unable to keep pace with local demand,
in the case of milk and dairy products, or with export quotas, in the case
of beef.  This situation has made it necessary to increase imports of
dairy products and to lose sales abroad in the beef markets. Since the
world prices of dairy products, especially skim milk powder, have increased
and will remain well above the levels of the 1960's for the foreseeable
future, it will no longer be economical to Panama to continue to import
them on a large scale.
Milk
2.        Milk production is low on the majority of farms, characterized
by once-a-day milking, calves nursing the cows, and short lactations.  During
1970, 98,400 cows were milked, with an average daily production of about
2 liters per cow per day. About 4,000 cows are concentrated on modern
large-scale dairy farms, which produced about 8% of the total milk output
in 1970. Seasonal variations in production are high, the peak usually
being achieved in September-October and the low in March-April (Table 1).
The annual range between production levels is about 100%, with the level
during the peak season twice as high as during the low production period.
3.        Of the 71 million liters of milk produced in 1970, approximately
twvo-thirds entered the organized milk market and the remainder was consumed
on farms, sold locally, or processed into cheese. Of the milk entering
the organized market, about 28 million liters was used for the productlon
of condensed, evaporated, and dried milk and about 17 million liters was
consumned as pasteurized milk. Nearly 10,000 tons of [ce cream were produced,
made mostly of the 28 million liters mentioned above.  Additionally, the
equivalent of about 44 million liters was imported - mainly as dried milk,
evaporated milk, and cheese - to provide a total annual consumption of
115 million liters, or a per capita consumption of about 80 liters. Because
of price increases on the world market, the importance of milk powder and
other dairy products have substantially increased and the competitiveness
of the national dairy industry has grown (Table 2).
4.        On the basis of the 1961-70 average world prices for butter and
skim milk powder, the CIF cost of raw material required to reconstitute



ANNEX 19
Page 2
1 kg of milk (with 3% of butterfat) was about US$0.5, which is below the
level of the producer price (about US$0.10 per kg) generally considered
necessary to render dairy farming attractive. However, with the improvemnent
of prices in the international dairy market, the CIF cost of raw material
for reconstituted milk would now be around the cost of locally produced
Grade C fresh milk.
Wholemilk Skim Milk
1970/71                    Butter    Powder      Powder   Cheese
(US$ equivalent)
(m ton)
1970
Average World Market Price           700        720       200        -
1971
February                           1,400     1,200        700        -
September                            970       -           -         -
1972
February                           1,415       -           -       1,235
Source:  IFE - Commodity Division.
5.        Four processing plants provide the main market outlets.  Three of
these pasteurize milk for the Panama City market, while the fourth is an
industrial plant situated to serve the central provinces. These plants,
together with their ancillary collecting and cooling substations, operate
at about 70% of capacity during the months of peak production (para 2).
6.        Average annual milk prices to the producer are fixed by Covernment
Decree 11; however, they vary according to the season 2/, the quantity of
milk delivered by the producer during the dry season, the relative proportion
of the milk delivered for industrial and fluid purposes, and the estimated
transport cost. Milk sold as Grade A fluid milk is graded on periodic bac-
terial counts (maximumn count, 200,000 colonies per ml) and on an examination
of the milking and cooling facilities available for clean milk production
on the producing farm. Actual farm prices for Grade A fluid milk are, at
present, around US$0.16 per liter. The milk supply for the Canal Zone,
however, comes from four particular herds that meet the health requirements
of USA officials, and a farm price of US$0.20 per liter ls paid. Milk sold
1/   Decreto de Gabinete No. 229, July 16, 1969.
2/   The Nestle milk processing plant in Nata pays to the producer, regard-
less of the grade, an additional US$0.02 per liter in the period
January-May and US$0.01 from June-December, but, in this period, only
for the quantity over 100 liters delivered daily.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
for industrial use, which represents by far the major portion, has a uniform
price throughout the year that now approximates US$0.10 per liter. This
type is highly contaminated, as milking is perforved by hand, in the open,
once a day. It is, in addition, not refrigerated, seldom is there adequate
w¿vater for cooling and sanitation, and it is rarely subject to inspection by
the Ministry of Hlealth and Agriculture. Since milk processing plants would
be prepared to pay an extra US$0.02 per liter for chilled milk, there would
be justification for installing simple milk cooling units on small dairy
farms.  Such systems Twould be based on the principle of spraying chilled
water over milk cans, the water being continously recirculated fromn a tray
underneath containing a freezing unit and pump.
7.        Rletail milk prices are fixed by Government at US$0.27 per liter
for Grade A and US$0.25 for good quality pasteurized industrial milk.
'Aolesale prices are US$0.02 less per liter.  Reconstituted milk is also
available at US$0.22 per liter, and nilk imports are now about 20 to 30%
more expensive than locally produced industrial milk.
Beef
8.        Cattle and beef production, both for local consumption and export,
ís shown in the following table, along with the per capita consumption
figures over the past seven years.  The 17-kg rate shovm for 1971 indicates
that, of the total amount of meat and fish consumed, about half is beef.
Cattle                                 73eef
Slaughtered ('000 head)          (, tons)   (m tons)/L         k
Domestic            /2                            Local      Per Capita
Year  ConsumDtion  Exports/-   Total    ExportsL-  Consunption  ConsuTmption
1965     121.9        12.1       134.0         -         19,408         15.6
1966     123.1        21.1       144.2       1,364       19,596         15.2
1967     131.0        17.3       148.3       1,441       20,97P         15.7
106i8    134.6        18.8       153.4       1,796       21,430         15.6
1969     149.0        15.1       164.1       1,337       23,725         16.7
1970     152.1        21.2       173.3       2,357       24,n20         16.8
1971     156.4        11.6       168.0       1,857       24,914         17.0
/1   On the basis of 159.3 kg carcass weight.
¡2   Includes Canal Zone consumption.
7i-  Includes only exports to US.
Source:  Records of Oficina de Regulacion de Precios.
Although the volume of exports, mainly to the US market, is small in relation
to the total beef supply, the trade las had a noticeable effect on local
price formation. Since 90% visible lean boneless beef exported to the 77S
brings about IJS$0.70 per pound (US$1.54 per kg) and domestic demand is
rising, local cattle farm-gate prices have been forced up, rising from about



ANNEX 19
Page 4
US$0.24 per kg in 1966 to about US$0.38 per kg in 1971. Export quotas to
the US market for 1970 and 1971 were set at about 2,600 tons for each year,
but they were only 90% filled in 1970 and about 50%Ó filled in 1971. These
quotas are open for 1972 and 1973, but, because of the increasing local demand,
the Ministry of Conmerce and Industry does not expect substantial changes in
amounts available for export.
9.        Míaximum retail prices for three main groups of common retail
cuts were established by Government in N\ovember 1970 (Decreto de Gabinete
No. 60, March 7, 1969) and prices for 1 kg of beef were fixed to range
between US$0.77 and US$1.32. Prices for the best quality cuts such as
filet and lomo and for offals were not affected. The imposition of
these controls on certain cuts of beef also, indirectly, set a limit on
the price that butchers could afford to pay for live cattle, although, so
far, producer incentives have not been adversely affected. Meat from a
carcass weighing 170 kg, which corresponds to the weight of a live animal
o-f 350 kg for which the butcher pays about US$140, is sold to the consumer
foor around US$200.
10.       Sales to the abattoirs are generally made on a liveweight basis,
but: export cattle may be sold on the basis of dressed weight. The smaller
livestock breeders usually sell calves for fattening at about one year of
age to a livestock dealer, who then sells them in larger groups to farmers
englaged in fattening operations.  Similarly, the marketing of fattened                   e
cat:tle is handled mainly by buying agents who put together a truckload
of cattle assembled from various small farmers from whom they buy on a
per head basis.  Larger farmers sell directly to an export abattoir or to
a "Matarife," a butcher's agent, whlo may then have these cattle killed
for a service fee at an abattoir and sell the carcass meat to retail
outlets. The purchase of cattle for export must be authorized by the
Mirnistry of Agriculture in collaboration wjith the Office of Price Controls.
Export animals are bought directly by the export slaughter plants and sold
on their account via brokers in the US as 90% visible lean boneless frozen
"cow beef." The dressing percentage of good steers is about 52% and the
yield of 90% visible lean boneless meat about 33%. The sale price of good
quality cattle now averages US$30.43 per kg liveweight delivered in Panama
City, although prices are higher from April through July. Cows for
slaugllter average about US$0.33 per kg liveweight.  The wholesale price
for carcass meat in Panama City is now about US$0.83 per cg.
11.       Panana has twso certífied slaughterhouses autheorzed to export
meat to the US, one in Panama City and one in David. These plants have
capacities of 250 and 200 head of cattle per eight-hour day, respectively,
an¿l both have steam and cold storage facilities and by-product plants.
Twc, similar plants are now under construction. There are also about 50
nunicipal abattoirs tqhich operated, according to a recent study 1/, under
falr or poor sanitary conditions. According to the sane study, the through-
put of the abattoirs in 1970 varied fron 50 to 300 cattle per month, the
majority being closer to the lItmer figure.
1/   Latinoconsult - Argentina.



ANNEX 19
Page 5
12.       The total charges for slaugbtering, including taxes, is US$13.81
for male and NUS13.06 for female cattle.  There is usually a reftnd of
US$3.75 for the use of by-products.  A breakdown of the fees and taxes is
as follows:
líale     Female
(US$ equival,ent)
Taxes (Revenue of the Ninistrv of Finance)
Slau7.htering Tax                             4.50        5.00
Retention Tax                                 1.50        0.75
Subtotal                                   6.00        5.75
Fee for Livestoclk Association                   1.25       0.75
Slaughtering Fee                              6.00        6.00
Weighing Cost                                 0.06        0.06
Subtotal/1                                 6.06        6.06
Transportation Cost                              0.50       0.50
TOTAl.                               13.81       13.06
/1   Revenue of abattoirs.
Female cattle that are slaughtered are predominantly culled cows or those
not appropriate for breeding.
Supply and Demand Projections
13.       Donestic supply and der.and projections for a5'riculture products,
made hy USAID in 1971 1/ (Table 3) reflected changes in quantity demanded
resulting from population growth and per capita incone increase. INo
alternative don:estic demand projections were calculated for beef, but
tlhe first, or larger, prolection, showing a deficit of about 4,700 tons
in 1975 and 9,300 tons in 1980, is judged to more closely approxirmate
expected future domestic beef requirements.  Rising imports of ham and
other canned meats strongly suggest some import substitution for local
sunplios of beef and otber meat products. The value of han inports alone
approached B 1.4 million in 1970 and could exceed B 3.n million in 1980 if
present trends continue. The analysis also projects deficits in the
domestic supply of mill - about 12,000 tons in 1975 and 25,000 in 1980.
e          1/   Agricultural Sector Analysis and Planning, Panama, by R. A. Hoffman,
April 1971.



ANNEX 19
Page 6
14.       Both domestic and export rmarket prospects for Panan.anian beef
appear extremely satisfactory and no constraints in ¡narketíng of this
commodíty is envisaged (Appendix 1).  Provided supplies are adequate, local
consumption is expected to rise by about 5% per year. The expected inerease in
beef imports into the US is about 57 per year and there is little doubt that
Panamia could fully share in this market. lUowever, future exports will
clepend on internal demand/supply balances and Government policy on US quotas.
115.      Local demand for milk and dairy products is high and, considering
substantial present imports and highl world market prices of dairy products,
increased donestic milk production could be sold at favorable and stable
prices.
March 1973



*                                                    *                                       l
PAN AXA
ILIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT FROJECT
Total Milk Production
r,i                                              ('000 liters per nionth)
!Month                     1965           1966            1967            1968          1969           1970
TOTAL                    60,639         681411          7O,381          69,231        76áA81        7z2998
January                   5,158          5,820           5,987           5,889         6,506          6,o0o
February                  44,W45         5,015           5,159           5,075         5,606          5,204
March                     3,567          4,024           4,140           4,072         4,499          4,176
April                     3,238          3,653           3,758           3,696         4,084          3,791
May                       4,171          4.,705          4,841           4,762         5,260          4,883
June                      4,939          5,572           5,732           5,639         6,229          5,783
July                      5,488          6,191           6,369           6,265         6,921          6,425
August                    5,872          6,624           6,815           6,704         7,406          6,875
September                 6,146          6,934           7,134           7,017          7,752         7,196
October                   6,11W6         6,93h           7,134           7,017         7,752          7,196
November                  5,817          6,562           6,751           6,641         7,337          6,810
December                  5,652          6,377           6,560           6,453         7,129          6,618
SOIJRCE:  Boletin de Informacion Agropecuaria, Anos 1965-70.
Direccion General de Estadistica y Censo.
Contraloria General de la Republica.
\ Io



PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
:imp<t and Exporb of Mlk and   lk Products
<'000 toni)
H
IMPORTS                                       EXPORTS
967   1-96      1969    1970    1971          196     1968      -9    1970   1971
Fresh Milk and Creaun           0.0     0.0     O.O     O.O      0.0           0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Condensed Milk                  0.0 0           0.0     o.8    1.0.0    0.0                            0.0      0.0
Butter                          1.3     1.2     1.5    1.U       1.4           0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0.1
Cheese and Fermented Producta   0.9     O.9   1io       1.2     1.3            0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Unspecified Mllk Producta       0.6     0.8     o.6     0.9    1.o            0o.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      o.o
1/  Preliminary
SOURCE: Contraloria General de la Republica, Díreccion de Estadistica y Censo, Ju2  1972.
*                                                  e ..*a



LIVE5OCK DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
1~~~~~~~~~~~'~~1 7
..1975                                  1980      _   _ ._.  _
Product              Projected  Projected  Projected   Projecte                           rojected
Demand-    Supplyz-/   Balance          Demand-l    SuppLy?J   Balance
Beef  11/               46.8         42.1          -4.7           58.8         49.5        -9.3
Beef (2)3/              43.6         42.1          -1.5           52.8         49.5         -3.3
Chicken  (1)2/          10.9           6.98        -3.9           15.3          8.1        -7.2
Chicken  (2)3./         10.5           6.9.8       -3.5           14.5          8.1         -6.4
Pork                     5.3           3.6         -2.7            7.0          3.8        -3.2
gam                      1.6       (Imported)   -1.6               2.1      (Imported)    -2.1
4/
Other canned meat        5.3           1.11        -4.2            6.9          1.1-       -5.8
Milk                   113.4        101.3         -12.1         144.77        119.96      -24.8
Eggs                     8.95          7.8        -1.15           11.3           8.7        -2.6
Co rr  (1) 3           122.6         93.4         -29.2         159.3          95.1        -64.2
Corn  (2)-/            109.2         93.4         -16.2         127.7          95.1       -32.6
1/  Projected demind includes domestic denand and exporte for beef, coffee, and bananas.  Beef and
coffee exports vere included at the average of the three-year period 1966-1969, 2.7 and 1.3
thousand tans, respectively. Banana exporte for 1975 and 1980 were estinated froz a linear
trend equation based mn the period 1960-1969, 740.3 in 1975 and 919.3 thougand tons in 1980.
2/  Projected supplies were estimated frca linear trend equations based on the period 1960-1969,
with the exceptiona of corn, rice, and beang. Estimates for carn, rice, and beang vere based
am projected yields in 1975 and 1980, based on the 1960-1969 trends and the total hectares for
each crop in 1970.
~/   Alternative estimates were calculated fer beef, chickens, and carn. In the opin:Lan of the
contractor, the first estimates for each product probabJy mare close2y approLC:mte future denaind.
i   Domestic supply was based on average productian for the period 1966-1969.
SOURCE: Agricultural Sector Analysis and Planning, Panama 1971.






ANTNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 1
PANMIA
LIVESTOC1R DEVELOPMEITT PROJECT
The 2'arket Outlook for Panamanian Beef Exports
1.        Panamranian beef is exported as boned out frozen beef in boxes
wei7hint ahout 27 kg (60 lb) each.  Thc US is the main market for this
export, withl Puerto Rico and Florida as the major consuners of Panaranian
bcef within tlie US.
2.        The table below summarizes the main features of beef production
and exports in Panama.
fxpor ts                F.xpor ts as
/1          /1  US7 Import  as a %.' of   Total US   a % of US
Year  Production-  Exports--   Price,L2_ Production  Imports/4    Imports
19h0     41,350           -         n.a.-         _            413.8        -
1°61     47,700           216       n.a.        0.45           569.1      0.04
1962     53,100           344       38.46       0.65           863.3      0.04
1963     54,900         1,040       37.87       1.89           988.5      0.11
1964     55,800             5       38.09       0.00009        703.3      0.0007
1f65     60,300            66       39.99       n.o1           583.2      0.001
1966     64,3no         3,007       46.62       4.64           763.6      0.39
1q67     66,600         2,869       47.22       4.31           841.7      0.34
1968     68,400         3,899       49.22       5.70           947.3      0.41
1%69     74,900         2,947       55.47       3.93         1,036.5      0.28
1970     77,400,        5,200       59,16       6.72         1,162.2      0.45
1971     83,200         4,100       61.04       4.93         1,142.0      0.36
/1   1,000 lb.
/2  UIS cents/lb.
13   not available.
/4   million lb.  Fresh chilled and frozen beef.
3.        Production has groim at a rate of 6.5% per annumi from 1960 to
1971.  Fxports were erratic in the first half of the 1960's but, since 1966,
they have grown at a rate of 6.4% per annum.  Ilowever, exports currently
constitute only about 5% of production, so the donestic market is of far
greater importance to Parama's cattle industry than the export market.
4.         Ur imports of fresh chilled and frozen beef and veal have
increased hy 9.8%, per annum since 1970 and the US import price has
increased at an annual rate of 5.8% since 1962.  This indicates that US
e  dcand for inputs of these types of bcef continues to outstrip supply.



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page  2
Current indications are that this situation will continue, due to a strono
and continued increase in consumer demand for fresh chilled and frozen
beef, especially in developed countríes.
5.        Ulorld trade in beef and veal declined by 4% in 1971 despite a
1% increase in production. This xras attributed to the increased consumer
demand and a decline in slaughterings in the major South American exporting
countries of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay. Cattle numbers continue to
increase in these countries and the decline is expected to reverse itself
in the near future, but nontariff barriers in the form of hygiene regulations
forbid exports of fresh chilled and frozen beef from these countries to the
US. As a result, direct competition from these countries in the US import
market is effectively shut off. The main suppliers to the US are Australia,
New Zealand, Ireland, and Mexico. However, Mexico's exports of beef declined
by 20% in 1971, due mainly to a high level of exports and increasing domnestic
consumption in the past few years.  Furthernore, continued increased domestie
consumption due to increasing per capita GNP and an increasing tourist trade
is thought likely to ensure no spectacular increase in Mexican beef exports.
Also, Ireland is now about to enter the FEC and can be expected to divert
much of its beef exports from the US to continental Europe. New Zealand
cattle slaughterings are expected to remain constant and Australia expects
cattle slaughterings to increase at a rate of about 7.57Ó per annum through
1973.  Doubtless, more of this inereased production will be exported to the
US and the forecasted increased output in Europe and increased exports to
Europe fron South America may cause Australia and New Zealand both to divert
exports to the US. This, together with large increases in cattle nunbers
in North Amierica, may result in a slowier positive price trend than current
conditions would indicate.  lowever, diversion of Irish exports to EEC
coulntries and no foreseeable change in Mexican exports are two factors offset-
ting this.  Finally, the existence of the US import quota system ensures
that the US marlet will remain an orderly one with no great price declines
as a result of imports.
6.        The position of Panamanian beef exports in the US beef import
market is seen in the last column of the table in paragraph 2.  As a percent
of total US beef imports, Panamanian exports are negligible and so are not likely
to upset the market. Being declared free of foot and mouth disease ensures
that Panamanian beef exports to the US will remain unhindered by nontariff
barriers but they are still constrained by a quota systexn based on historical
exports to the US.  In the recerit past, Panarna has failed to fill its quota.
This was due to increasinpg domestic consumption and increasing consuniption
by residents of the Panama Canal Zone. Botlh trends are expected to continue,
perhaps at an increasing rate; thus, Panamanian exports of beef are not
expected to increase substantially.
7.        The net result is that the outlook for future beef exports fron,
Panama is good, as these exports are directed to a market whicD has the
characteristics of continued expansion in the foresceable futiire.
Source: Trade Policies & Export Projections Division of the
Economics Departrent.



ANNEX 20
PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Baaic Data of Producers' Benefits
Before           After          Full
Enterprise                                Development       5 Years      Development
I.  Small Dairy Farm
Total Herd (Milk Cows)    ..........        10               23             24
Production (Milk'000 1)   .........        4.5             38.6           39.9
Operating  Income (US$'O0O) .....          0.6              3.5            3.9
Herd Value (US$'000)    ............       2.8              7.3            7.3
II. Beef Dairy Farm
Total Herd (A.U.s) -  ...........           74              139            148
Production:
(a)  No. of Cattle  Y  ........           17               48             54
(b)  Milk '000 1 ..............            9               26             28
Operating Income (US$'000)   ......        2.2              5.6            6.8
Herd Value (US$'000) 3/   .........       11.7             25.2           26.6
III. Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Total Herd (A.U.s)          ,, 1.-----.    250              520            520
Production (No. of Cattle) -                53              233            225
Operating Income (US$'000)                 4.8             10.6           15.7
Herd Value (US$'000) 3/                   37.7             89.4           73.7
IV. Land Reform Settlement
Enterprise (Asentamiento)
Total Herd (A.U.s) i/  '''                  91              520             520
Production (No. of,Cattle) -1               20              320             312
Operating Income (US$'000) ......          (.9)            10.0            14.1
Herd Value (US$'000) 3/ .........         14.6             83.5            84.9
V. Purebred Breeding Center
Total Herd (A.U.s) ............            348              603             627
Production (No. of Cattle)   ......        107              152             214
Operating Income (US$'000)   ......       23.9             37.3            73.0
Herd Value (US$'000) ,..     ......      177.6            346.1           359.8
1/ Including purchased steers
2/                         e
3/
NOTE:  Full development would be achieved: Small Dairy Farm - Year-6;
Beef Dairy Farm  - Year-8;
Breeding/Fattening
Ranch         - Year-9;
Land Reform
la                                                    Settlement Ent. - Year-9;
Purebred Breeding
Center          - Year-8.
AuRust 28. 1972






LIM~SOc  D~VLP>01   MJECT
Batimate of Floaclal Ratee of ¡etur  by  ~oel
-                                                        1           1           3          4           5           6           7            8               9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~110        11-19           2
Kpde1 1
~~ hoa'~~~::::::::::::...                             49 ~           12~     ~ 1595      2,223       2,983       3,295       3.9          3295           3,295        3,295          3,295          3,295
"p                                                                                                                                (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,100)-
Incr`=~tal   rd                                                  -           -          -           -           --                     -                            -4- 
let Eanfitt 8tre.............(9,452)    <3,788>                                       1,595       2,223       2,983      3.295       S 295        3,295           3,295        1,195          3,295          7.,381
atIasated FIm.mcil la of Ratera   181
Noda 2
me~ Iovaetu.ts   ......                                       (8,400)    (4.900)    <2,700)         -           -           -           ---                                      -              -              -
Incr na   0~rT.n IAe(3.250)                                                 260       1,450         790       3,400      2,940       3,840        4.640          4,640        4,640          4,640          4.640
leplac.ut            .-. .-...........-.<1,800)                                                                                                                                                               -
1..r..t.i Nrd V.1.    ~ ~ ~ ~      ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~       ~       -                            -           14.100
Uet ¡anefíta Stram.............<11,650)   (4,640)    (1,250)                                        790       3,400      2,940        3.840       4,640          4,640         2,640          4,640         18,740
Estimated Fioctl late of lEturo - 151
Nodel 3
¡e  Imsutams........1  ......(14.000)    (7,000)    <4,500)                                         -                       ------
Iocr..aotaí o~~rato.a¡ íoe    Y                      (.7.180)    <7,100)    (2,630)    (1,140)        5790      10.650        8,930      10,740          10,860       10,860         10.860         10,860
Repíaenta -......t------------                                               ..          -          -           -           -           -            -              -            -                             -
Iocr~e--etal ¡erd Value  .-...-...-.........-.--                                                                                                                                                            36.03
Net 8Baftas Stre   .............<21,180)   (14,100)    <7,130)    (1,140)                                     5,790      10.650       8,930       10,740         10,860       10,860         10,860         46,860
Ratimated FEseacal Rate of Resturo - 161
Nodel 4
¡a. I~sveasta........ .              ......(22.000)   <17,300)    (5.700)                           -           -           -           -            -              -            -               --
T.Cremntal "9atfo¡ in~oc          ......                     (24,700)   ( 1,490)       1,390      4,950      12,850      12.130      13,290       14,980         15,000       15,000         13,000         15,o00
Replaceeto ........-                                                                     ..          -          -                       -            -              -    (1.200)                 -              -
Ioermental ¡erd Value--                                                                             --                                                                                          -           70,200 2/
¡et Bsuefíta Streao.............(46,700)   <17,790)    (4,310)                                    4,950      12,850      12.130      13,290       14,980         15,000       13,800         15,000          85,200
Ptultuted Pioaoí1l Rataeof Rcturo - 151%
>4odel 5
¡e. I-.et.eet ........           ,                           <40,200)   (24,100)   <20,700)          -           -          -           -            -               -            -              -              -
Iocr~eotal Op2yatIglostcom -l......                          (14,500)   (15,700)   ( 4,200)       (300)    13,400        34,100      48,100       49,100         49,100       49,100         49,100          49,100
Replaeots r.                                                                                                                 ----                                                                 
Iotu.therd Valu- .............                                                                                                                                                                       1_63 600 3
Net Benoefíto Str ee..<..........                            54.700)   (39.700)   (24,900)        (300)    13,400       34,100      48,100       49,100         49,100       49,100         49,100         218,700                  1
E.tf,oted Píaneamia Rate of Retur. - 211
11 The tero llícr~ataol" ¡a used to denote íecreaese  in operating incom  over the pre-developsent 1evel.
/Raplacea.t co.o represente total príce of e.. .achíoary.  Aoy tr.de-lo of old machioery wvold cll.et estjeated locreaae lo prices olor. initial l.ovetuat perlod.
1/ loludes locrentnal herd valuo as dilffror ..e betweao pre-dewelopment aod full davelopuent hard val.e.



P ANANA
LIVESTOcK DEVELONNflIT PROJECT
Bat_ted   e of Return to the Eco~
'O$000  Equfvalent)
-___------------ lwach Developnt -----------------                                                                                    Adjted
iacruntal                                    anch                 llplace t of            Teehnical &                                Iucr_t l
Operatiun  1/-sidual                    Develo_t                   achUny an             Couultant            Adjuasmuta           Inco_ toe
Y__                Iue    1           f llerd Value21         Cost                          it                 Sce/                     T
"        ~         ~1        (865)                   _(1.906)                                       -(346)                                     1S                (3,102)
^        ~        ~2       (1,745)                   _(4,098)                                       -(392)                                     35                (6,200)
s        ~        ~3       (1,026)                    _(3,716)                                      -(348)                                     30                (5,060)
4                  (3SS)                   _               (1,712)                        -                    (2S7)                 15                (2,312)
5                   793                     -                (433)                        -                    (257)                  5                   122
6                 2,320                    -                    -                         -                    (100)                  -                 2,220
7                 2,300                     -                                              -                   (100)                  -                 2,200
8            ~~~3,892                  -                   --(100)                                                                -                3,792
9            4,215                     -                   -1-                                            (100)                                    4,115
10                 m,6                                                                  (207)                   (100)                  -4,057
11                 4,370                    --(316)                                                              (50)                  -4,004
12                 4,370                    __(134)                                                              (50)                  _4,1S6
13                 4,370                    ---                                                                  (50)                  -                 4,320
14                 4,370                    --                                             -                     (50)                  -                 4,320
15                 4,370                    --                                             -                     (50)                  -                 4,320
16                 4,370                    --                                             -                     (50)     --                             4,320
17                 4,370                    --                                             -                     (50)                  -                 4,320
la                 4,370                    --                                             -                     (50)                  -                 4,320
19                 4,370                    ---(50)                                                                                    -                 4,320
20                 4,370                4,256                    --(50)                                                                -                 S,576
21                 3,058                6,498                    --(30)                                                                 -                9,526
22                 1 018                3,218                    -                         -(10)                                        -                4,226
Rete of Return to the E~oa    15Z
11 BorrowerB' *gg tetd amul s-leoi leas oprating expense and phased on ranch investoenta.
2|Shom as the difference between borrowera' initial herd v lue end that of full developcent herd value.
A/ ocud th t tecbnical services costo would gradually dec mae  but wuld be on a licited scale required during ehe lifetime of the Proej«t
4IValue of custom duties on certala ítem to be imoted has been considered in the fin ncial rate of return calculation and atded as a benefit to the
eco~.g
iea



PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BNP ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATIVE        .                                      CREDIT
| COMMITTEE1                                         COM TE
CONTROLLERS7    -                                     CONOMIC
L_   ..      I       ADVISOR
EXECUTIVE MANAGER          EXECUTIVE MANAGER                                                EXECUTIVE MANAGER
OF                          OF                                                              O
CREOIT                   OPERATIONS                                                    ADMINISTRATION
COMMERCIAL           OIVISIOÑ OF OFERATIONAL                                              LEGAL DIVISION
DIVISION                   CENTERS
INTERNATIONAL              DIVISION OF DATA                                              E           _ .    O
DIVIStON                   PROCESSING                                                           DIVISION
|GR1ICULTURAL ANO         OEVELOPMENT                 ACCOUNTING                                                   GENERAL SERVICES
LIVESTOCK BANKING          DDIVISION                   EPARTMENT                                                       DIVISION
NATIONAL SUPERVISION                                                MARKETING
FOR COLLECTIONS                                                     DIVISION
SUBMISSION OF 
LOAN PORTFOLIO     r
REGIONAL MANAGER                   REGIMANAGEANAGER                    REGIONAL MANAGER
|  CENTRAL    l             l          METROPOLITAN               CHIRIQUI & BOCAS
Wo,Id B.nk-7634






PANAMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL BANK
OF PANAMA
PROJECT UNIT
Project Director                                      AO
Agricultural Economist    iPasture and                                 _  _    O              _      _
Livestock Technícíans                       ForaguProject
Consultants
Administrative Officer
BNP                 ~~~~~~Agriculture andPR\TE                                                    Mnsro
Agriculture and Livestock            Livestock                                 COMMERCIAL                        Agriculture aind--
|Bankigri    Departmond etocle    | Development                                     A                            Livestock Development
Bank¡ng Department         Bank BDA                                      I3NSMDA                                                              -
BORROWERS - Dairy Farms, Dairy/Beef Ranches, Beef Ranches,Stud Breeding Ranches, Asentamientos
Vocational agricultural school at Divisa, Buena Vista and Gualaca Experiment Station
Source: IBRD Mission                                                                                                                                          Worid Bank-7027(2R)






IBRD 10159
8z7  -2Nr                                  Se°                                         SI                                          ea°                                         rS'                                          7                          SEPTEMBER    1972
C    A   R?   1   B    S    E   A    N                                   S    E   A
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -<  ANPAtO   ;t.  COLON--r 1 '* ISLAS DtE SAN BLAS
F'[             FIatFa'rC\ '29;,FBoo del Toro      LIVESTOCK    DEVELOPMENT    PROJECT                                      Freaaa:a       O             ,         "    1,'          . S   A
BNP - IFE                                                                            1 S.H~                                   - '$S            itad
".                                                                                                                                                               oue'Cptn                                        1'' u '    \       '  /a;\  MaR  '
"~,-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-    EtpraarA                                              PANAMA                            '        "       Iuitp
Ser-n alean  « Eoet B O C A S  D E    TORO R                                          ¡ i                RAN A              er Cal''')a
C 0 C7 L ET-b \              Ca b                Taage
1  ""*"- -~~~~~~~~~  Santa Fo  A  CalSíta       '                                                                     1-~~~~~~~~'11D   A R\ E 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOI' F;  ',                                                                -eR>e,t                              ~, Í i-                                                - a          \|
Praareaa        *~~~~~ D    C Hl R  Q U ¡                                           La 't'.aa                 eoa                                         ARCtfIPELAG9r                                   II`",
¡,TiII da   0Pedraga        Sabalo                          V E R A G U A S                                                                   O* SCt  SE LAS  PAS    *1  Gorohn                               á- Paha
orí¡¡a9                                        \     Cando             Ca abra *HO  C                         D Nata  H 
S      UerTaD  dTAEl R"ia ,3     upía a*.,              * Ta                 S7   Prtu¡                   * Ág,daía Puerta\ 0501dberca Highoy                                                                               -          ",            /
t-@  solbSl5 LA '3 g-+ 0 ás 0 LSaINTOaPeds *                             *ried or ie                                                       di                                                             g        1U  stisju   
SUEXICC~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~                            ~~~~~~           La  Mes        Sairiag CA-  'lat MG A  SEA                                                                                                            ElRe  )~|  onm  orm    {a[:     d # 1
,       k                                                                 0                   7                           O      lo    Eo    30   4,e   úo             8   hOtf                         X           $; z:., F,P~1O b(Qdi
P          ZaFlCCEAVpanot'   tAA nA C tilla   Mt
Mn~~~~~~~~a  ~               oG   U   LF                       O F       P  A  N       A  M  A 
S..Ría de.      '          Ps
(   rj    *  00~        ~~~ . *  PL.h.dTaS tos
ISLA~ ~   ~~ 2              'i           o        ier                                       -      tanLOat Ine---d,a  t~Ay                             1
J"AM>CUAÍ                              DE- t  t~Cir   ISL.daaSí                                                                           *    Auné,d  ar a dt'esnatierrad
HAITI O",-                                                                          al,P.,t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
<-11DR. HONDURAS  RE    11-1. 1 BA2O. 
110,11~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~oai                                      " ~'.---'f                        -    Ot                                                          "5.' 1--- ---,mel1  
GLIATEMAL'41  iInentírlbanale                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
EL 9--- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-CnlZn SaneieA Regiona Off ibe
CL 00,70050~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IO                                                              2            o     5
t A    4, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~s os                                                                          Rearh Office
PACIFI OCEA             i04l VORrH               e-     A      0      1     F      ¡ h  C                0,    O      E      A      N                                                       UM-i Oíftve



