Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 74866-BJ
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION
SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC-8)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.9 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
March 12, 2013
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate as of January 15, 2013)
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 496.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA             Analytic and Advisory Activities
ABE             Agence Beninoise pour l'Environnement
(Benin Environmental Agency)
AfDB            African Development Bank
AIC             Association Interprofessionnelle de Coton
ASTER           Computer-based Accounting system
BCEAO           Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank for
West African States)
BIs             Baseline Indicators
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CDD             Community-Driven Development
CEFAL           Centre de Formation de l'Administration Locale (Local Administration
Training Center)
CEM             Country Economic Memorandum
CFAF            Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc (African Financial
Community Franc)
CIGOP           Competitiveness and Integrated Growth Opportunity Project
CPAR            Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPS             Country Partnership Strategy
CSPEF           Economic and Structural Programs
DBI             Doing Business Indicators
DPL             Development Policy Lending
DSA             Debt Sustainability Analysis
EA              Environmental Assessment
ECF             Extended Credit Facility
EFA             Education for All
EIA             Environmental Impact Assessment
ENPLT           National Study of Long Term Perspectives
ESW             Economic and Sector Work
EU              European Union
FADEC           Fonds d'Appui pour le Developpement des Communes
(Communal Development Support Fund)
FTI             Fast-Track Initiative
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GEF             Global Environment Facility
GU              Guichet Unique (Port Single Window)
GUFE            Single Window for Business Formation
HIPC            Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
i


﻿HIV/AIDS         Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome
HSPC             Health system performance credit
IAD              Income and Asset Disclosure
ICA             Investment Climate Assessment
ICC              Investment Climate Council
ICRR             Implementation Completion Results Report
IDA              International Development Association
IFC              International Financial Corporation
IMF              International Monetary Fund
IN SAE          Institut National de la Statistique et de l'Analyse Economique
(National Statistics Institute)
ITN              Insecticide-treated Bednet
LDP              Letter of Development Policy
LOLF             Organic Law on Finance
MAEP            Ministre de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et de la Piche (Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries)
MCC              Millennium Challenge Corporation
MDGs             Millennium Development Goals
MDRI             Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF             Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances
(Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MEHUD            Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development
MOH              Ministry of Health (Ministre de la Sant)
MOU              Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF             Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
OCBN             Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins defer (Joint Benin-
Niger Railroad Organization)
OPCS             Operations Policy and Country Services
OSD              Orientations Strategiques de Developpement
(Strategic Development Orientations)
PAF              Performance Assessment Framework
PAP              Priority Action Plan
PCR              Primary Completion Rates
PEER             Public Environmental Expenditures Review
PEFA             Public financial management performance measurement framework
PER              Public Expenditure Review
PFM              Public Financial Management
PIP              Performance Improvement Plan
PPP              Public-Private Partnership
PRSC             Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PVI              Import Verification Program
PSRSA           Plan Strategique de Relance du Secteur Agricole (Strategic Program for
Reform of the Agriculture Sector)
SBEE            Societe Beninoise d'Energie Electrique (Energy and Electricity
Company of Benin)
SCRP            Strategie de Croissance pour la Reduction de la Pauvret (Poverty
Reduction Strategy)
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
SIGFIP          Integrated Computer-based Budget Management System (Systime
ii


﻿Integre de Gestion des Finances Publiques)
SIGMAP          Integrated Public Procurement Management System
SNIGS           National Health Information System
SONAPRA         Societe Nationale pour la Promotion Agricole
(National Cotton Company)
SSA             Sub-Saharan Africa (Afrique Sub-Saharienne)
SCO             Cement Company
TA              Technical Assistance
UNCAC           United Nations Convention Against Corruption
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
WAEMU           West African Economic and Monetary Union
WAMU            West African Monetary Union
WB              World Bank
Vice President    Makhtar Diop
Country Director    Madani M. Tall
Sector Director    Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager     Miria Pigato
Task Team Leader      David Cal MacWilliam
111


﻿REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC-8)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM            SUMMARY                                     .......................................... vi
1. INTRODUCTION                             ......................................................... 1
2. COUNTRY CONTEXT ..................................................... 2
A. Recent Economic Developments in Benin...............3..........                    .............3
B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability                              .................8.... ............8
C. Assessment of Progress Under the Poverty Reduction Strategy (SCRP I, II and III) ................. 10
3. THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES                                   ..   ............. 11
4. BANK GROUP'S SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S
POVERTY REDUCTION STATEGY                                              .......................................... 14
A. Link to CAS and Strategy for Africa                                  ................... ................  14
B. Collaboration with the IMF and Other Donors         ........................   ................ 14
C. Relationship to Other Bank Operations                                  ........................................ 15
D. Progress Under PRSG-7 and the Previous Series (PRSC 4-6) ......................... 16
E. Analytical Underpinnings                .........................................     ......... 18
5. THE PROPOSED EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION CREDIT                                        ...................... 21
A. Operations Description                                          ...................................................21
B. Prior Actions for the Proposed PRSC-8 and the Government's Medium Term Reform Plan........22
C. Policy Areas   ........................................................... 26
6. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION                         ............................................. 37
A. Poverty and Social Impact                ..........................................     ....... 37
B. Environmental Aspects                                           ................................................... 37
C. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation............              .................     ......39
D. Fiduciary Aspects.......................................................40
E. Disbursement and Auditing                                         ...................... .................. 41
F. Risks and mitigation .....................................................41
iv


﻿List of Annexes
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy ............................................. 44
Annex 2: Operation Policy Matrix...............     .      .......................  ........ 54
Annex 3: IMF Relations Note .................................................... 56
Annex 4: Country at a Glance...................................................... 57
Annex 5: Country Map                    ........................................................58
List of Tables
Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators, 2008-2015      ............................................ 8
Table 2.2: Progress toward the MDGs.....................1..........................1
Table 5.1: Prior Actions and Subsequent Actions                       ...................................... 23
Table 5.2: Outcome Indicators Matrix............................................... 25
Table 5.3: PEFA Ratings 2007 Versus 2012                            ..........................................26
List of Tables
Figure 2.1: Key Imports (billions of CFAF)                           .................5.......... ..............5
Boxes
Box 5.1: Good Practice Principles for Conditionality .................................... 24
The World Bank's core team for this operation was led by David Cal MacWilliam (AFTP4). The team
members were: Amadou Ibrahim (AFTP4); Katrina Sharkey (AFCCI); Erick Herman Abiassi, Kofi
Nouve, and Stephen Mink (AFTAl); Olivier Fremond, and Pepita H. Olympio (AFMBJ); Alain Hinkati
(AFTMW); Mathias Gogohounga (AFTPW); Emmanuel Noubissie (AFCF2); Itchi Ayindo (AFTPW);
Alain Hinkati (AFTMW); Aissatou Diallo (CTRLA); Solange Alliali (LEGAM). Madani Tall (Country
Director, AFCF2), Miria Pigato (Sector Manager, AFTP4), and Volker Treichel (Lead Economist and
Sector Leader, AFTP4) provided guidance. Judite Fernandes (AFTP4) helped prepare the document and
navigate the process. Cyrus Talati (AFTP3) and Jean-Gaspard Ntoutoumi Ayi (AFTMW) served as peer
reviewers. The team also worked closely with the IMF team, headed by Mario de Zamaroczy, and donor
representatives in Benin.
v


﻿REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Recipient:              Republic of Benin.
Implementing            The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) coordinates the
Agency:                 implementation in close coordination with the line ministries.
Financing Data:         IDA Credit Amount: SDR 19.9 million; (US$30 million equivalent);
standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace period;
single tranche.
Operation Type:         This Development Policy Credit is a standalone operation that
follows two previous PRSC series (six operations) and a stand-alone
PRSG-7.
Main Policy             The first focus of PRSC-8 is on strengthening public administration,
Areas:                  public financial management and public sector governance (budget
planning and execution, procurement, internal control and audit, and
anti-corruption measures). The second focus is on private sector
competitiveness through a strengthened business environment
conducive to private sector growth.
Key Outcome              The indicators included in Table 5.2 and Annex 2 are primarily a
Indicators:              sub-set of those presented in the Government's SCRP (2011-2015)
and correspond to the objectives noted in this operation, notably:
budget execution rates (investment and current expenditures),
average procurement delay, average payment delay, corruption
indicators, time to start a business, etc.
Program Development      The over-riding development objective of this PRSC, in line with
Objectives and           Benin's SCRP, the CAS and the Africa Regional Strategy is to
Contribution to CPS:     accelerate real economic growth and reduce the incidence of
poverty in Benin through focusing on the following objective:
(i) Strengthened public sector management, administration and
governance; and
(ii) Strengthened business environment.
Risks and Risk           Risks facing this operation include: (i) macroeconomic risks,
Mitigation:              including exogenous shocks and changes in commodity prices,
which may negatively affect macroeconomic outcomes; (ii)
political risk and weakening consensus for structural reforms; and
(iii) weak implementation capacity, due to lack of sufficient
vi


﻿professional staff and poor communication and coordination
amongst departments in charge of implementing the reforms.
Against this background, PRSC-8 is proceeding as a stand-alone
operation largely to help maintain consensus for key reforms and
alleviate financial pressures. It will provide needed financial
assistance to maintain macroeconomic stability, sustain key public
services, and generally support the authorities' efforts to ensure
that the progress made on essential governance and economic
reforms under previous budget support operations is maintained.
Specifically, this credit will contribute to enhance public sector
management, administration and governance; and to strengthen the
business environment. Commitment to and development of a
programmatic series will await greater clarity on the political
consensus around cotton and port reforms and greater clarity on
the reform path in these important sectors. Given remaining
uncertainty in these sectors, reforms at the port and in the cotton
sector are not explicitly included as prior actions in this operation.
Macroeconomic risks are mitigated by direct measures and actions
supported by this operation to strengthen public finance
management, promote civil service reform and support increased
competitiveness and an improved investment climate, thus
contributing to a sound and increasingly stable macroeconomic
framework. The IMF and the Bank are working closely together in
Benin, together with other donors, and will continue to closely
monitor the Government's macroeconomic performance. Reforms
to improve transparency and public financial management should
help reassure the public that resources are well spent and mitigate
political risks. Furthermore, IDA is supporting engagement with
domestic stakeholders, including the National Assembly, sectoral
ministries and civil society in order to build and reinforce
consensus around key reforms as well as leverage the
dissemination of AAA and ESW work as a means to increase
awareness on the benefits of structural reforms of national
importance. Finally, technical assistance and ESW efforts elements
related to capacity building and civil service reform are ongoing
and several complementary Bank investment activities are helping
build institutional capacity in key areas.
Operation ID:              P127441
vii


﻿PROGRAM DOCUMENT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Despite a long period of positive economic growth and a stable macroeconomic
environment, Benin's economy has shown little structural change, limited diversification,
weak export performance, and minimal job creation. A return to a more ambitious reform
effort is necessary in order to accelerate economic growth and meaningfully reduce poverty.
1.2   President Yayi's Government has demonstrated a renewed commitment to a
substantive reform agenda since earning a second mandate and enjoying a majority
coalition in the National Assembly. Over the past 18 months the Government has
implemented difficult reforms at the Port of Cotonou, has proceeded with meaningful anti-
corruption efforts, has made progress in strengthening public financial management, public
procurement processes in particular, civil service reform has accelerated, and important steps
have been taken in improving the business enabling environment. Some of these efforts were
met by stiff resistance, and implementation is proving difficult. The Government has
nonetheless demonstrated considerable resolve in proceeding with this reform agenda.
1.3   PRSC-8 supports this reform effort, strengthens and reinforces the substantial
progress achieved in these key areas and provides needed financial resources to help maintain
macroeconomic stability.
1.4   However, a stand-alone operation is proposed in place of a programmatic series
as significant resistance to reforms from those with vested interests in the status quo,
particularly at the port and in the cotton sector, has created some uncertainty. Appropriate
policy responses in these key areas are being considered by the Government in dialogue with
the Bank and progress is being made. While wishing to support the substantive reform effort
to date, it would nonetheless be premature to commit to a new PRSC series without complete
clarity in these important areas. A stand-alone operation will provide needed support for
ongoing reform efforts, while providing time for greater clarity to emerge in these more
difficult areas prior to committing to a new programmatic series.
1.5   The reforms supported by this operation are closely aligned with the SCRP 2011-
2015. This proposed credit is in-line with the proposed new CPS covering the 2013-2017
period, and leverages and complements other Bank operations in Benin. PRSC-8 aims to
assist the Government in reinforcing and strengthening the implementation of its reform
agenda and to lay the foundation for sustained pro-poor growth.
1.6   This operation follows two previous PRSC series (six operations) and a stand-
alone PRSG-7 operation. Implementation Completion and Results Reports (ICRR) for the
PRSC 4-6 series and the PRSG-7 have been completed. Lessons learned from the previous
series are taken into account in the design of this operation.
1


﻿2. COUNTRY CONTEXT
2.1   With a per capita income of approximately US$800, Benin ranks in the lower
income group of countries. Growth has been moderate over the past couple of decades,
averaging around 4 to 5 percent annually. This growth performance remains marginally below
the regional average and has contributed to only modest increases in per capita incomes and
improvements in human development. Not surprisingly, poverty remains widespread with the
poverty rate increasing from 35.2 percent in 2009 to 36.2 percent in 2011.
2.2   In 2009 and 2010, following the onset of the global economic crisis and the serious
floods experienced in 2010, economic growth slowed to 2.7 and 2.6 percent respectively.
Growth in 2011 rebounded only slightly to 3.5 percent and may approach 4.0 percent over
2012 due to an exceptional cotton harvest. The Government's SCRP 2011-2015 and the
support provided through this operation seek to accelerate Benin's growth performance.
2.3   The economy relies heavily on re-export and transit trade with Nigeria and other
neighboring countries, and on the agricultural sector, cotton in particular. Informal re-
export trade with Nigeria accounts for some 20 percent of GDP and makes the economy
vulnerable to trade policy changes or economic downturns in neighboring Nigeria. The
agricultural sector accounts for over 30 percent of GDP and provides nearly 70 percent of the
country's employment. Cotton is the major export commodity representing typically 25 to 40
percent of total exports, though exports have fallen below this level more recently.
2.4   Raising economic growth and per capita GDP will require that Benin
increasingly capitalize on its comparative advantages in agriculture and its position as a
regional trading center. Agricultural diversification and improved agricultural productivity
will be key as will an improved business environment in order to take greater advantage of
Benin's geographic position to legally and formally serve the Nigerian market and its role as a
gateway to land-locked countries to its north.
2.5   While considerable progress has been made recently, public sector capacity is
weak and corruption and rent-seeking behavior continues. Budget planning and
expenditure control, including procurement, have improved but continue to demonstrate
considerable weaknesses. Budget execution rates have improved from less than 50 percent,
but remain less than 80 percent in many ministries and often fall well below that level for
investment spending. Limited capacity in the areas of procurement, planning and financial
management is a fundamental issue leading to low execution rates. This has been exacerbated
by poor performance on the revenue side, resulting in the need for expenditure retrenchment.
2.6   Benin's economy is highly informal, with the informal sector estimated to
account for up to 75 percent of the total economy. Given the prevailing business
environment, incentives to engage in arbitrage opportunities related to Nigeria are
significantly stronger than incentives to pursue productive, value creating and employment
generating activities. Thus, economic growth remains muted and opportunities to diversify
the economy remain unexploited. On a positive note, the large, innovative and entrepreneurial
informal economy, in which women play a large role, is a potential source of growth,
investment and untapped fiscal resources. With an improved business and investment climate
Benin could position itself favorably as a competitive supplier to the Nigerian and regional
market.
2


﻿2.7   A decade ago, Benin was an ambitious and innovative performer and was seen as
a model among West African countries. Economic performance improved markedly post-
1989 following political reform, macroeconomic stabilization, trade liberalization, and
divestiture of state-owned enterprises. Unfortunately, this level of performance was not
maintained, momentum was lost and a period of reform stagnation set in. As a result,
economic growth over the previous PRSP periods remained too low for meaningful poverty
reduction, particularly in an environment of relatively high population growth. This was
largely due to difficulties encountered in implementing ambitious PRSP plans in a contentious
and divisive political, albeit highly democratic environment.
2.8   Benin experienced one of the most successful democratic transitions in Africa.
Following the March 13, 2011 elections and the April 30, 2011 parliamentary elections, the
Government is again headed by President Boni Yayi. This represents his second and final
five year term. The National Assembly is comprised of representatives from 8 political
parties, with President Yayi's party holding 41 seats, the opposition 20 and 7 other parties
currently aligned in a coalition with the President holding 22 seats. Thus the President has a
working majority of 63 seats in the 83 seat National Assembly.
2.9   Post-elections, the administration has moved boldly in several reform areas,
particularly at the port and within the Customs Administration. Implementation of both the
single window (Guichet Unique) and the import verification program (PVI), but particularly
the latter, were met with strong resistance and resulted in serious disruptions to port
operations and government revenue collection. Nonetheless, the Government persevered,
demonstrated considerable resolve in pursuing its ambitious reform agenda, effectively
countered the resistance, and pushed forward with its agenda, though difficulties persist.
A. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS IN BENIN
2.10  After several years of steadily improving growth performance, reaching 5.0 percent in
2008, growth slowed to 2.7 percent in 2009, 2.6 percent in 2010, 3.5 percent in 2011 and
possibly 4.0 percent 2012. Aside from the 2010 floods, which resulted in losses of 4 percent
of GDP, weaker performance in 2009 and 2010 was largely the result of a decrease in re-
export trade, primarily to Nigeria, lower cotton production, and lower foreign direct
investment, developments driven largely by exogenous factors.
2.11  Growth under-performance in 2011 on the other hand reflected weaknesses in
structural reforms. The implementation of port and customs reforms (PVI and Guichet
Unique) slowed port traffic, led to long backlogs and delays, caused debilitating congestion
around the port and in Cotonou, and led to a redirection of transit trade to competing regional
ports. These problems were partly the result of limited capacity to implement such an
ambitious reform agenda on the part of the authorities, weaknesses within the private sector to
adapt to these changes, but most significantly by strong resistance to the reforms encountered
from within the Customs Administration and among various port operators.
2.12  Growth estimates for 2012 were revised downward from 4.3 to 3.5 percent as a
result of the impact of the removal of fuel subsidies in Nigeria and continued weak
performance at the port. However, a much better than expected cotton harvest could boost
growth to 4.0 percent.
2.13  On the fiscal front Benin has conservatively managed its fiscal position,
responding to lower than anticipated revenues over recent years by restraining expenditures.
3


﻿Unfortunately, governance issues and capacity limitations have led to expenditure reductions
not being well-targeted and indeed restraint falling heavily on needed public investment,
priority social expenditures and pro-poor spending.
The Impact of the Petroleum Subsidy Reform in Nigeria was significant
2.14   The reduction of fuel subsidies in Nigeria had the immediate effect of increasing
fuel prices in Benin by 50 percent. Over 85 percent of petroleum products in Benin are
sourced illegally in Nigeria. Prior to January 2012, benefiting from the Nigerian petroleum
subsidy, informal gasoline prices in Benin were approximately CFAF 300 per liter, in contrast
to the official price of CFAF 570. This situation has existed for many years and has led to an
atrophied official fuel sector where there are only some 100 gas stations in the entire country.
Official importers are hesitant to import fuel supplies as they are unable to compete with the
unofficial market. Following gas price increases in Nigeria the unofficial market price of gas
in Benin increased temporarily to over CFAF 1,000 per liter due to market dislocations and
then settled at CFAF 450. This spread between the unofficial price (Nigerian sourced gas)
and the official price, CFAF 450 versus CFAF 570, remained sufficiently large to essentially
shut out the official market, providing no incentive for official importers and distributors to
re-enter the market.
2.15   In November 2012, measures were taken to stop the bulk importation of fuel
from Nigeria, in order to encourage official suppliers to import gas. Small scale unofficial
imports from Nigeria continue more or less undeterred, but the authorities have seized some
barges and some tanker trucks. The initial result was that the informal price went up to
around CFAF 650 per liter compared to the official pump price of 600, though the unofficial
price has drifted back down to 550.
2.16   This led not only to increased inflation, which rose to 7.0 percent in 2012 after
many years under 3 percent, but also reduced employment and income opportunities as
the illicit trade in gas and diesel engages many Beninois. Estimates range widely, but up to
500,000 people may be directly or indirectly involved in this trade. As such, higher gas prices
increased costs for households and reduced purchasing power, but the narrowing of the spread
also reduced profits and incomes for the many Beninois involved in the trade. It is estimated
that this slowed growth by 0.5 percent in 2012.
2.17   Notably, beyond the fuel issue, regional re-export and transit trade is a mainstay
of the economy (much of it informal), accounting for 20 percent of GDP and 25 percent of
government revenues. This highlights the vulnerability of Benin's economy to policy
decisions and economic conditions in neighboring Nigeria. Trade through Benin destined for
neighboring countries has slowed over the past couple of years, particularly re-export trade to
Nigeria. Trade liberalization in Nigeria appears to be the main factor. Nigeria's restrictive
trade policies, including import bans on certain goods (used cars, used clothing, edible oil,
tires, etc.) and high tariff rates on others (rice, tobacco, alcohol) creates profitable
opportunities for importing these goods into Benin and then re-exporting them informally to
Nigeria. This trade generates significant import duties for Benin. The reduction in some
tariffs and the removal of certain quotas and bans in Nigeria over the past couple of years has
reduced the profitability of this re-export trade. This is estimated to have reduced annual GDP
growth in Benin by approximately 2 percentage points and significantly affected fiscal
revenues.
4


﻿2.18   Rice imports are a case in point (Figure 2.1). Pre-2007, Nigerian tariffs of 50
percent encouraged rice imports into Benin for re-export to Nigeria. A tariff increase to 100
percent in 2007 led to a sharp increase in imports. The phased reduction of rice tariffs over
several months in 2008 and the eventual establishment of a 35 percent tariff in 2009 led to a
notable decline in rice imports into Benin.
Figure 2.1: Key Imports (billions of CFAF)
120
100
80
40 -
20  -
0
2004     2005      2006     2007      2008     2009      2010
m Used cars     a Clothing       Rice/cereals    * Veg. oil
Source: INSAE.
Developments in the Port of Cotonou are significant
2.19   Important port reforms were introduced in 2011, namely, implementation of the
Guichet Unique and the PVI. These encountered significant difficulties in implementation
arising from capacity constraints in both the public and private sectors, but also due to stiff
resistance from the Customs Administration and, to a lesser degree, from the private sector.
Nonetheless, the Government persisted with the reforms and took meaningful actions to
ensure effective implementation, including: using retired customs officers to continue clearing
goods in response to strike actions; passing back-to-work legislation; restricting future strike
action; and involving the military in the port to ensure continued port operations.
2.20   On May 2, 2012 the Government suspended the contract with Benin Control, the
private sector operator of the PVI. This turned into a fierce legal battle between the private
operator and the State. Customs assumed the PVI functions while the Government attempted
to renegotiate the terms of the contract with Benin Control. The stated intention was to
reduce the costs associated with the PVI so as to be more in line with regional norms.
Throughout this dispute, port operations were disrupted and the port experienced a decline in
port traffic and a diversion of traffic to other regional ports.
2.21   The contract with Benin Control has now been cancelled and the intention is to
enter into a new contractual arrangement through an international competitive bidding
process. The PVI contract may be split, with the GPS transit tracking function being tendered
on a completely private sector basis, whereas the scanning and import verification function
may be carried out through a PPP arrangement.
2.22 At the Government's request, the Bank provided in October 2012 a policy note on
improving the operational performance of the port.    This complemented efforts and
5


﻿investments in the port by the Millennium Challenge Corporation and several of the
recommendations included in the note were implemented in November 2012.      Port
performance has increased significantly over the past few months. Dwell time has fallen from
nearly 30 days at the height of the port disruptions to under 10 days most recently.
Congestion around the port has improved following the recommended implementation of a
pre-authorization system for truck entry, the recording of truck entry/exit times and the
imposition of penalties for prolonged stays in the port. Discussions are ongoing around
several other recommendations, including: merit-based staffing decisions; improved lines of
accountability; the devolution of greater decision making responsibilities to port authorities;
installation of scales and the enforcement of axle load limits on trucks exiting the port; etc.
The Cotton Situation Remains Uncertain
2.23  The economy remains heavily dependent on cotton. Cotton is Benin's largest
single official export, representing traditionally 25 to 40 percent of annual exports (though
this has diminished recently) and contributing to the livelihoods of 50 percent of the
population. Production had fallen markedly to a low of 137,000 tons in 2010/11, which is
about a third of its 2004/05 high of 417,000 tons. Cotton production rebounded in 2011/12 to
approximately 200,000 tons.
2.24  The cotton sector was subject to considerable uncertainty in 2012. Following
cotton sector reform and the sale of the national cotton company's industrial assets in 2008,
the organizational structure in the cotton sector had returned to a monopolistic structure, with
one large private operator controlling a very large part of the input supply and ginning
activities. This privately owned group was under the same ownership as Benin Control at the
port and was affected by the same conflict between the President and its owner. In April 2012,
the Government dismantled the existing industry structure and dissolved the agreement with
the Association Interprofessionelle de Cotton (AIC). The Government assumed responsibility
for the procurement, distribution and sale of inputs (fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides) and
managed the marketing and sale of cotton.
2.25  Despite initial difficulties and a slow start, the Government effectively procured
and distributed inputs and the 2012/13 harvest was the best in several years. Estimates
of approximately 350,000 tons are becoming more firm as meteorology remained favorable,
acreage under cotton increased, pest burden was low, and inputs were effectively provided.
2.26  Efforts are underway, with Bank assistance, to consider the sector structure
going forward, as all realize that government control is not the best option. Workshops
attended by Bank and contracted cotton experts were held in Benin in December 2012, as was
a meeting between Bank sector staff and Benin's President and his Cabinet. The Government
took Bank recommendations under advisement and options are being considered, though a
zonal structure would appear to be the preferred choice. The Bank will provide ongoing
assistance in these efforts as requested and future PRSC operations will support necessary
policy reforms in this area as they become evident.
Broader Macro Developments are Positive
2.27 As noted, inflation, which has typically remained under the WAEMU target of
3.0 percent, was 7.0 percent in 2012 following the gas price increases experienced in
January. Inflation trajectory will depend on the future path of gas prices in Nigeria and
Nigeria's continued efforts to reduce domestic subsides, which indirectly benefit Benin.
6


﻿2.28   In 2012, the current account deficit declined to 9.3 percent of GDP, from 10.3
percent in 2011, reflecting largely increased cotton and non-traditional exports combined
with more official transfers and relatively slow import growth. It should be recognized
however, that the current account can be difficult to estimate accurately due to the high degree
of informal and unrecorded trade with Nigeria. There is thus considerable measurement error,
which typically tends to inflate the reported current account deficit. Access to resources from
the IMF and donors, as well as substantial capital inflows, help finance the current account
deficit.
2.29   The overall fiscal deficit, which deteriorated in 2009, turned around in 2010 and
2011; reflecting considerable expenditure restraint. The fiscal deficit increased to -7.5
percent in 2009 following a positive fiscal stimulus in response to the global economic and
financial crisis. Spending was curtailed over the second half of 2009 and expenditure restraint
has continued since that time. The deficit was -3.1 percent in 2010 and -4.3 percent in 2011.
The overall fiscal deficit in 2012 was -3.6 percent with a basic primary balance of 0.2 percent.
The deficit is financed largely through the receipt of aid flows of around 3.7 percent of GDP
and the balance is financed by domestic borrowings or borrowings on the regional market.
This operation (US$30 million) represents approximately 1.8 percent of planned government
expenditures, or 11 percent of the fiscal deficit. HIPC and MDRI debt relief (2006) have
improved the debt and overall fiscal position considerably.
2.30   On the revenue side, total government revenue declined to 17.6 percent in 2011
following difficulties at the port and the heavy reliance on trade related revenues. Total
revenue increased to 18.9 percent of GDP in 2012 as the situation at the port improved. In
response to revenue shortfalls, government spending was severely curtailed in each of the
previous three years. Expenditure systems were shut down and the Government moved to a
strict system of matching expenditures to available revenues. As a result, the overall budget
deficit has remained stable and within program targets.
2.31   A high wage bill, at 7.4 percent of GDP and 45 percent of tax revenue, is well
above the WAEMU convergence criteria of 35 percent and has constrained space for other
expenditures. Public investment typically bears the brunt of expenditure reductions, falling to
5.5 percent of GDP in 2010, from 9.7 percent in 2009, and rebounding only modestly in 2011
and 2012 to 6.6 and 6.8 percent of GDP respectively. Other measures to strengthen the fiscal
position included: strengthening direct tax collection; freezing expenditure commitments and
new bonuses to civil servants; and enforcing more rigorous controls on expenditure execution.
About two-thirds of the deficit was financed from external grants and concessional loans.
Additional financing was also mobilized on the regional market.
2.32 Weaknesses in public financial management have resulted in low budget
execution rates within line ministries, many running at 50 percent or less. Furthermore,
given the need to control expenditures in response to lower than expected revenue, the non-
differentiated nature of the restrictions on expenditures, and the frequent closure of the
automated financial commitment and expenditure system (SIGFIP), priority expenditures and
priority investments were as likely, or indeed more likely, to be constrained as non-priority
expenditures.
7


﻿Table 2.1: Key Economic Indicators, 2008-2015
------ Actual-------     -------Projections-------
2008   2009   2010   2011   2012  2013  2014  2015
Population growth (%)                 3.2    3.2   3.2    3.2    3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2
Real GDP Growth (%)                   5.0    2.7   2.6    3.5    3.5   3.9   4.1   4.3
Real GDP per capita growth (%)        1.8   -0.5   -0.6   0.3    0.6   0.8   0.9   1.1
Inflation (CPI, average, %)           8.0    2.2   2.1    2.7    6.9   3.3   3.1   3.0
Gross investment (% of GDP)          18.1   20.8   17.6   18.7  19.1  19.2  19.2  19.2
Gross private investment (% of GDP)  12.3   12.1   12.1   12.1  12.2  12.4  12.5  12.7
Gross domestic savings (% of GDP)     4.8    7.5   7.0    6.0    6.8   7.0   7.8  8.2
Revenue (% of GDP)                   19.6   18.5   18.6   17.6  18.9  19.1  19.7  19.9
Expenditures and net lending (% of GDP)  23.0  26.0  21.6  21.9  22.5  22.5  22.2  22.0
Wage bill (% of GDP)                  6.1    7.3   7.3    7.4    7.4   7.4   7.3   7.2
Overall fiscal balance (% ofGDP)     -3.5   -7.5   -3.1   -4.3  -3.6  -3.4  -2.4  -2.1
Basic Primary Balance                 0.7   -4.0   0.5    -0.1   0.2   0.4   1.3   1.6
Overall balance of payments (% of GDP)  1.6  -1.6  0.8    -4.9  -1.6  -0.4   0.4   1.0
Current account (excl. grants, % of GDP)  -9.1  -11.2  -8.2  -10.3  -9.3  -9.1  -8.4  -8.0
Export growth (US$ terms, %)         20.0   -1.5   30.5  -22.8   9.7    8.9  10.4  7.3
Share of cotton exports (% of exports)  27.2  19.1  13.7  17.4  16.8  16.2  17.0  15.9
External Debt to GDP (%)             16.8   15.5   17.9   17.7  17.0  17.3  17.7  18.2
Debt service to exports ratio (%)     2.5    3.4   3.6    5.0    5.7   5.7   6.0   6.1
Source: Beninese authorities, IMF and Bank staff estimates and projections.
2.33 Benin is a member of the West African Economic Monetary Union (WAEMU)
and its exchange rate regime is managed at the regional level by the common Central
Bank (BCEAO). The CFAF is pegged to the Euro at a rate of CFAF 655.957 = El. Monetary
policy, conducted at the regional level by the BCEAO, continued to be prudent in 2012,
aimed at maintaining price stability consistent with the WAEMU Stability, Convergence,
Growth and Solidarity Pact objectives and stability of the CFAF. Broad money supply
increased by about 9.0 percent in 2011 and 7.4 percent in 2012 as a very modest economic
recovery continued, as illustrated by a projected increase in credit to the private sector of
about 5.7 percent in 2011 and 9.3 percent in 2012.
2.34 Benin has an on-track program with the IMF. The Government agreed to a three-
year ECF arrangement with the IMF as approved by the IMF Board in June 2010. Subsequent
reviews have confirmed that the ECF program remains on-track. The IMF relations note is
attached as Annex 3.
2.35   In sum, Benin has maintained positive economic growth and a broadly stable
macro environment despite having to confront significant challenges. However, growth
has been below the level necessary to make a difference to poverty and significantly improve
living standards. Inflation has typically been controlled and price stability well-maintained
despite pressures to the contrary, though inflation in 2012 was an anomaly as a result of
Nigeria's subsidy reduction efforts. Since the 2011 elections the Government has proceeded
with important structural reforms, though these have encountered resistance and
implementation difficulties. As a result, the benefits of these reforms have yet to fully
materialize.
B. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY
2.36   The medium-term macroeconomic outlook (2013-15) assumes steady recovery, a
rather benign external economic environment and more effective implementation of the
Government's reform agenda. Growth is expected to be 3.9 percent in 2013 and 4.1 percent
8


﻿in 2014. While risks to this growth trajectory are real, there is unrealized potential for
achieving higher growth performance should global conditions become more favorable,
should there be positive exogenous shocks, or importantly, should the Government continue
with more effective reform efforts aimed at creating a business environment conducive to
private sector-led growth.
2.37   Benin has significant comparative advantages in agriculture and, given its
geographic position, also in commerce and trade. Capitalizing on its comparative
advantage in agriculture through agricultural diversification, including a reinvigoration of
cotton, will be important, as will positioning Benin as a cost-effective, transparent and well-
governed economy with a strong business and investment climate that can increasingly serve
regional markets, particularly Nigeria. The Government is proceeding with structural reforms
to strengthen competitiveness and improve the business climate, including ongoing efforts at
the port to facilitate trade, commerce and the movement and clearance of goods, as well as
implementation of a new national agricultural strategy. Effectively tapped, building on these
comparative advantages could lift Benin's growth rate above current projections.
2.38   However, considerable uncertainty remains in respect to the reform paths in the
cotton sector and at the port. Developments in these areas would have important growth
implications. Fortunately, despite some setbacks in both areas, outcomes have nonetheless
been positive. Cotton production has rebounded significantly in 2012/13 due to favorable
weather, low pest burdens and effective government efforts to distribute agricultural inputs.
Port traffic has increased and port efficiency has improved markedly following operational
reforms in late 2012. Nonetheless, the longer term plan for management of the cotton sector
remains uncertain and the situation with the PVI program at the port remains unresolved, as
will be explained further in this document. The Bank remains involved in dialogue with the
authorities on these issues and resolution is expected over the first half of 2013.
2.39   The greatest risk to near-term fiscal performance is further wage expansion.
While a wage settlement with civil servants in August 2011 was initially seen as the only
settlement that would be entertained over the 2011-2015 period, new inflationary pressures
and demands by teachers that they be included in the 2011 wage settlement could lead to new
wage pressures. Teachers unions are demanding inclusion in the 25 percent salary increase
granted to all other civil servants and have staged rotating strikes. The Government's position
is that teachers received a 25 percent salary increase in March 2010 and they have to date
resisted granting the wage increases demanded by the teachers. The wage bill represents
almost 70 percent of the primary and secondary education ministries' budgets. Given the
Government's desire to maintain social harmony, the demonstrated power of public sector
unions and the effectiveness of previous labor action, it is not inconceivable that further wage
concessions could materialize.
2.40   The BCEAO is expected to continue to use a prudent monetary policy to keep
inflation under control and maintain a comfortable level of international reserves. However,
Benin is vulnerable to developments in Nigeria. Exogenous price shocks could continue
should Nigerian authorities continue to progressively remove gas subsidies. The current price
for gas in Nigeria is the equivalent of approximately US$0.62 per liter so there is room for
further subsidy reductions and resultant increases in gas prices. The impact of future
reductions in petroleum subsidies will be muted as the gap between the official price and the
unofficial price of gas diminishes and the formal market assumes a greater proportion of
gasoline and diesel sales.
9


﻿2.41  Fiscal consolidation is intended to create the fiscal space necessary to increase
priority spending while reducing budget deficits. Measures are being implemented to
improve domestic revenue mobilization while more rigorously managing public expenditure.
Total revenues are expected to average 19.6 percent of GDP over 2013-2015. This is to be
accomplished through efforts to expand the tax base, strengthen tax and customs
administrations, and combat fraud, including more specifically: computerization of tax
services, continued implementation of the "guichet unique", strengthening import verification
measures, use of scanners at the port, borders and airports, limiting exemptions, and
application of a unique taxpayer identification number system. Expenditures will be targeted
to support growth and poverty reduction and average 22.3 percent of GDP over 2013 to 2015.
This will take place in the context of plans to improve public financial management, enhance
capacity to absorb resources, improve the quality of expenditure with a focus on improving
control of recurrent expenditures, particularly the wage bill, and a greater focus on priority
spending. Furthermore, civil service reform is proceeding with the development of a plan to
reform civil service remuneration, the consolidation and harmonization of human resource
management systems with the payroll system, and the preparation of a comprehensive civil
service reform strategy.
2.42  HIPC and MDRI debt relief helped reduce Benin's external debt stock from 47
percent of GDP at end-2002 to 17 percent currently. The latest DSA update, July 2012,
confirms that Benin faces a low risk of debt distress.
2.43  The evolving situation in Mali is not perceived as presenting a significant source
of risk and uncertainty to Benin. Economic, political and social linkages with Mali are
marginal as compared to the extent and influence of linkages with Nigeria. As such,
developments in Nigeria are of far greater importance than those in Mali.
2.44  In light of recent macroeconomic developments, a stable outlook, and responsible
fiscal and debt management, all of which are detailed above, the macroeconomic policy
framework is considered to provide an adequate basis for the purposes of this operation.
C. ASSESSMENT OF PROGRESS UNDER THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
(SCRP 1, 11 AND III)
2.45 Benin remains a low income country with per capita income of US$800. With a
Human Development Index of 0.427 Benin finds itself situated 167th out of 187 countries in
the 2011 Human Development Report. Despite moderate economic growth, progress in terms
of poverty reduction has been limited. The incidence of poverty at the national level is
estimated to be 36 percent in 2011, compared to 35 percent in 2009 and 37 percent in 2006.
As is typical, this aggregate figure masks important urban-rural and regional differences.
Rural poverty in 2011 was 39.7 percent while the urban figure was 31.4 percent. Regionally,
there is a 21 point spread between the poorest and the least poor Departments (Couffo with a
46.5 percent incidence of poverty and Ou6m6 at 25.4 percent). Differences are even more
stark at the commune level where the difference between the poorest commune (Ze at 61.2
percent) and the least poor (Abomey-Calavi at 18.4%) is 43 percentage points.
2.46  Nonetheless, social indicators have been improving, particularly in the areas of
education, water and to a lesser extent health. Between 2005 and 2011 primary school
enrolment increased by more than 18 percentage points from 93 percent to 111.5 percent.
Overall completion rates improved from 65 percent in 2005 to 71.6 percent in 2012, and the
completion rate for girls increased from 54.3 to 65.8 percent. Despite these achievements,
10


﻿regional disparities, continuing gender disparities and the quality of education remain
outstanding priorities if education MDGs are to be met. These outcomes are considerably
below SCRP established targets of 88 percent for overall primary school completion and 83
percent for female primary school completion rate.
2.47   Considerable progress has been made in the provision of potable water as rural
access to potable water has increased from 36 percent in 2003 to 61 percent in 2011 (62
percent in urban areas), putting Benin on the path to achievement of the MDG concerning
water. This is the result of using more programmatic approaches, greater decentralization in
the water sector and important Government measures in improving sectoral capacity.
Nonetheless, further progress in this area will depend on the availability of additional
resources and increased local community engagement.
2.48   Health indicators have also improved. Maternal and child mortality have declined -
maternal mortality falling from 474.4 per 100,000 live births in 2002 to 397 in 2010 and child
mortality falling from 184 per 1,000 births in 1990 to 70 in 2011. Also, at 1.2 percent, the
prevalence of HIV/AIDS is among the lowest in the region. Despite this moderate progress,
most health indicators fall below MDG targets.
Table 2.2: Progress Toward the MDGs
MDG                                            1990          Current Status   Likelihood of
(year)       achievement
1. Poverty
- Reduce extreme poverty by one half      57% (estimated)     51.6% (2011)      Unclear
- Reduce hunger by one half               35% (estimated)     25.2% (2008)      Possible
2. Universal Primary Education
- 100% completion rate                    31 % (estimated)    71.6% (2012)      Unlikely
(65.8% for girls)
3. Promote gender equality
- Girls/boys ratio of 100% in primary school  49.5% (1990)     98% (2012)       Unlikely
4. Reduce Child Mortality
- Reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds  184 deaths per 1000  70 (2011)        Unlikely
live births (1990)
5. Improve Maternal Health
- Reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths  547 deaths / 100,000  397 (2010)  Unlikely
births (estimated)
6. Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other
diseases                                      3.8%            1.2% (2011)       Likely
- halt and reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS
7. Ensure Environmental Sustainability
- proportion of individuals with access to safe  37% (estimated)  61% (2011)    Likely
water (reduce non-access by one half)
Source: Beninese authorities and World Bank staff estimates.
2.49 Achieving the MDGs will require higher and more stable growth and a significant
improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of public service financing and delivery.
Poverty and social indicators indicate that results under SCRP I and SCRP II were moderate.
Even if macroeconomic performance was satisfactory, economic growth and improvements in
service delivery remained too low for meaningful progress towards the MDGs.
3. THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES
3.1    SCRP (2011-2015) represents Benin's third PRSP. It considers progress achieved
under prior PRSPs and reconfirms and furthers the objectives elaborated in SCRP II. As such,
11


﻿it builds on the successes and addresses the failures and constraints encountered in
implementation of the previous PRSPs. The over-riding objective is to improve the quality of
life in Benin and to place Benin firmly on the road to emerging market status. Achievement
of the MDGs is seen as attainable in water and sanitation, HIV/AIDS and primary health care
with some progress envisaged toward the other MDGs. The pillars identified in the SCRP are
the same as in the previous PRSP: (i) accelerate economic growth; (ii) infrastructure
development; (iii) strengthen human capital; (iv) promote good governance; and (v) balanced
and sustainable regional development.
3.2   The PRSP emanates from long term national visions contained in the National
Study of Long Term Perspectives (ENPLT), Benin Alafia 2025 and builds on the Strategic
Development Orientations (OSD) outlined by the Government in 2006. These strategic
documents were the product of extensive consultations within the country. The SCRP (2011-
2015) operationalizes the OSD through the preparation of the associated Priority Action Plan
(PAP) and the MTEF.     The SCRP itself was the result of a participative process.
Consultations were undertaken at the national and departmental levels and thematic groups
comprised of government officials, civil society, private sector and donor representatives were
established. The output of these groups served as the foundation for the drafting of the SCRP
(2011-2015). Workshops were held to evaluate, consider and ensure effective inclusion of
cross-cutting themes such as gender, HIV/AIDS, demographics, environmental considerations
and human rights. The process however, was not immune to criticism from civil society and
many felt that the level of engagement could have been broader and deeper.
3.3   The macroeconomic framework associated with SCRP (2011-2015) is based on a
scenario that envisages acceleration in economic growth to 7.5 percent by 2015, rising from
2.6 percent in 2010 - an average of 6 percent over the period. This is 2 percentage points
higher than the level of ambition stated in SCRP II - a level not attained. While growth
approaching 7.5 percent may be necessary to attain the MDGs, this is a rate of growth that has
no historical precedence in Benin. The alternative scenario expressed in the SCRP is based
on a 5.2 percent average growth rate that, while more realistic, still exceeds growth targets
forecast in the ECF program. While ambitious in its objectives and optimistic in its forecasts,
stated goals could be considered attainable, if accompanied by a similarly ambitious
commitment to meaningful reform and effective implementation. Improved results and
historically high growth rates will not be achieved in the current environment. Meaningful
changes in outcomes will require meaningful changes in behavior.
3.4    The level of resources needed to implement the SCRP (2011-2015) as identified in the
Priority Action Plan (PAP) is similarly ambitious. The PAP outlines the investments and
priority actions that emanate from the SCRP and will be updated annually. It is consistent
with the PIP and reinforces the program-based budgets developed by line ministries. The
PAP serves as the link between the SCRP, the sector-based program budgets, the national
budget and the MTEF, the latter of which is also updated annually on a three year rolling
basis. Unfortunately, the PAP, while providing the necessary detail rendering the SCRP
actionable, arrives at costed resource levels in excess of the annual national budget. As such,
it is insufficiently prioritized to inform allocation decisions in the context of limited resources.
3.5   As noted, the pillars remain identical to those of the SCRP II, but are reinforced and
extended to consider new challenges and constraints. This extends to greater consideration of
crucial development challenges such as: youth and female employment; the opening up of
new agricultural production zones and activities; the promotion of rural economic growth; the
reduction of gender inequalities; and social protection needs. Furthermore, themes such as
12


﻿rural organization, agricultural diversification, demographic challenges and adaptation to
climate change have been more meaningfully incorporated.
3.6   Pillar 1: Accelerate Economic Growth. Economic growth remains too low to meet
the fundamental development needs of the population, particularly in light of high population
growth (3.2 percent). The SCRP notes that poor performance is largely due to the lack of
economic diversification and an uncompetitive economy. The Government is determined to
accelerate reforms in order to encourage economic diversification and raise growth. Four
priority areas are identified: (i) the provision of a stable macroeconomic framework; (ii)
fostering a more dynamic and competitive private sector; (iii) encouraging economic
diversification; and (iv) furthering regional integration and global engagement.
3.7   Pillar 2: Infrastructure Development. Economic infrastructure plays a key role in
the development process. It links producers to markets, reduces factor costs, improves
economic competitiveness and provides essential services, such as potable water, electricity,
sanitation services, communications services, and as such simultaneously improves both
economic growth and the quality of life. Five priority areas are identified: (i) transportation
infrastructure; (ii) energy infrastructure; (iii) information and communication technologies
infrastructure; (iv) water and sanitation infrastructure; and (v) housing and urban development
infrastructure.
3.8   Pillar 3: Strengthening Human Capital. Despite progress over the course of SCRP
1 and 2, economic growth was not sufficient to respond to the social needs of a rapidly
growing population. Should population growth continue at this pace, stronger efforts will be
required in human resource development and in providing access to basic social services --
not only to extend services to an ever increasing population, but also to strengthen human
capital as the fundamental building block for medium and long term economic growth. Six
priority areas are noted: (i) controlling population growth; (ii) provision of education services;
(iii) improvement in the health and nutritional status of the population; (iv) creation of decent
employment; (v) reduction of gender inequalities; and (vi) strengthening social protection and
social safety nets.
3.9   Pillar 4: Promote Good Governance. Good governance is essential to overall
success of the SCRP, to the creation of a private sector environment that can more effectively
contribute to national development, to improving the quality of public spending, and to the
effectiveness of Government programs and services. The Government has stated its
commitment to reinforce the quality of governance in Benin in order to improve public sector
effectiveness and efficiency.  Priorities include: (i) strengthening public financial
management; (ii) strengthening public administration; (iii) strengthening political governance
and processes; (iv) strengthening statistical capacity; (v) promoting improved environmental
governance; (vi) promotion of peace and security; and (vii) promotion of human rights and
the legal capacity of the poor.
3.10   Pillar 5:  Balanced and Sustainable Regional Development. Truly national
economic development and meaningful poverty reduction requires an approach that leads to a
balanced development path across all regions of the country. As such, the SCRP seeks to
develop local resources and local potential as the building blocks of wealth and employment
creation and reduce spatial inequalities in the provision of infrastructure services. This
includes reforms in the areas of decentralization/deconcentration, regional development, land
management and environmental protection. Priorities include: (i) strengthening the
decentralization and deconcentration processes; (ii) strengthening regional and local planning;
13


﻿(iii) land reform; (iv) promotion of frontier areas; (v) strengthened environment and natural
resource management; and (vi) improved natural disaster risk management.
4. BANK GROUP'S SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S
POVERTY REDUCTION STATEGY
A. LINK TO CPS AND STRATEGY FOR AFRICA
4.1    PRSCs are a key instrument in the Bank's policy dialogue with Government and
development partners. The CAS for FYO9-12 (Report No 46485 - BJ), discussed by the
Board on February 26, 2009, as well as the new CPS covering the period 2013-17, note the
importance of relying on a combination of development policy and investment operations in
order to encourage a coherent approach to supporting structural reforms. The CAS and the
new CPS explicitly include PRSCs as a key IDA instrument for supporting Benin's SCRP and
in addressing the Government's request for donor harmonization around key reforms.
4.2   The proposed PRSC-8 will provide support for implementation of the Government's
reform agenda in two key areas targeted by the new CPS, namely: (i) strengthening
governance and public sector capacity; and (ii) strengthening economic growth and
competitiveness. The third CPS priority, access to basic social services, is indirectly
supported through efforts to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public sector
administration and hence more effective and targeted delivery of basic services to the public,
particularly the poor.
4.3   The operation is closely linked with the Bank's Strategy for Africa. The strategy
identifies governance and public sector capacity as its foundation and notes: ". . . underlying
Africa's many development problems is the challenge of governance and political leadership.
Competitiveness is constrained by restrictive business regulations that are difficult to remove
because of vested interests. Infrastructure-often considered another binding constraint-is
itself impeded by poor public investment choices, weak budget management, corrupt or
lethargic procurement practices, inefficient public utilities, and regulations that prohibit entry
into the trucking industry or keep electricity tariffs below sustainable levels." PRSC-8 focuses
directly on governance issues (budget management, procurement, corruption) while also
fostering increased competitiveness by strengthening the business climate.
B. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
4.4   Benin is considered only moderately aid dependent, as compared to other low-
income countries, including those in the region. Over the 2004-2009 period aid represented
approximately 4.5 percent of GDP and 25.2 percent of total government receipts, placing
Benin below the average for francophone West Africa. In 2011 aid totaled 3.8 percent of
GDP. Aid typically finances between 15 and 20 percent of total government expenditure and
close to 50 percent of public investment.
4.5   Relations with the IMF in Benin are strong and constructive. IMF program
review missions are presented as joint Fund/Bank missions and Bank participation is integral
to these review missions. Structural benchmarks and performance criteria included in the
IMF program are not only coordinated and consistent with PRSC prior actions, but also with
investment operations and AAA work. The IMF has been fully consulted in the preparation
of this PRSC and has made substantive contributions.
14


﻿4.6   Donor coordination in Benin is well-developed, particularly around the provision
of budget support. The identification mission was carried out in the context of a joint donor
review of Benin's SCRP. This latest review June 20 - 30, 2012 included: (i) discussions,
review and revisions of the common policy and results matrix as well as the main
performance indicators; (ii) the formulation by donors of coordinated comments on the SCRP
progress report; (iii) discussions on major policy areas, notably public financial management,
private sector development, governance, decentralization and civil service reform; and (iv)
joint preparation (donor/bank/government) of a comprehensive aide memoire identifying
agreed-to policy and reform actions. The donor community in Benin was consulted in the
preparation of this PRSC and the operation has benefited from their substantive comments.
C. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS
4.7   Several ongoing and planned projects are direct complements to this operation
and provide financial and technical assistance and institutional capacity building in mutually
reinforcing areas. In private sector development, the ongoing IDA/IFC Competitiveness and
Integrated Growth Opportunity Project (CIGOP, US$25 million) is helping improve the
business climate, provide the needed infrastructure for private sector development and
promote enterprise development. The business environment reforms identified in this PRSC
reinforce and strengthen the policy environment in which this initiative is operating and
enhance its effectiveness. IFC technical assistance and the placement of an IFC supported
advisor in the President's Investment Council is also directly helping the Government in
proceeding with and implementing some of these reform measures. On the one hand, this
technical assistance helps support the implementation of measures supported under PRSC
operations, such as the development of an action plan to strengthen the investment climate.
On the other hand, including business climate measures in PRSC operations increases the
influence and effectiveness of the TA being provided.
4.8   The Abidjan-Lagos Trade and Transport Facilitation Project (US$75 million for
Benin) addresses trade facilitation bottlenecks identified along the corridor and provides
technical assistance and capacity building in the Port of Cotonou and directly complements
and informs policy dialogue efforts on port measures. The IFC and the WBI also provide
advisory services to promote the development of a PPP law and to promote sound PPP
arrangements at the port. Given the predominant role of trade and commerce in Benin's
economy, this investment project is key to increasing private sector competitiveness and
directly reinforces actions supported in PRSC-8.
4.9   In the agriculture sector, the Emergency Food Security Support Project (US$9
million) implemented under the Global Food Crisis Response Program is supporting the
implementation of the Emergency Food Security Program prepared by the Government in
response to the food price crisis. The project supports Government efforts to boost food
production by subsidizing the provision of fertilizer to about 50,000 producers of rice and
maize. The Agricultural Diversification Operation (US$31 million) supports the
development of promising agriculture subsectors and value chains and improvements in the
productivity of food crops and again directly helps inform the policy dialogue undertaken
through PRSC operations. Furthermore, the support of specific policy actions in a PRSC can
strengthen the performance of investment operations. Bank involvement in these agricultural
investment operations led directly to the Government requesting Bank assistance in cotton
sector reform and implementation of the new agricultural strategy, both areas of active policy
dialogue.
15


﻿4.10 The HIV/AIDS Multisector Project (US$35 million) aims to increase access to
information and prevention services as well as to treatment and improve monitoring and
coordination of decentralized activities. The Decentralized Community Driven Services
Project (US$46 million) aims to support Benin's decentralization and financial management
reforms by increasing resources available to communes for basic decentralized services,
empowering communities and building capacity for development planning, fiduciary control,
monitoring and evaluation, and social accountability. The 2nd Decentralized Cities Project
(US$75 million) is helping increase access to infrastructure and basic services for residents of
Benin's primary cities and selected secondary cities while improving municipal management
and community participation. These investment operations help extend PFM reforms
supported through the PRSC to the local level and also help inform the policy dialogue
process on issues and constraints in PFM at the community level through direct engagement
and experience with PFM at the decentralized level.
D. PROGRESS UNDER PRSG-7 AND THE PREVIOUS SERIES (PRSC 4-6)
4.11  Initially conceived as the first operation in a series of three, the PRSG-7 was delayed
and presented as a stand-alone operation intended to elicit demonstrable commitment to a
more ambitious reform effort on the part of the authorities. Following the March/April 2011
Presidential and Parliamentary elections, the environment appeared conducive to the
implementation of a more ambitious reform agenda. This was communicated to the
authorities, who responded accordingly and implemented a number of meaningful reforms as
previously noted. The present PRSC-8 builds on the reforms initiated in the PRSG-7 by
supporting measures intended to reinforce, ensure implementation and make effective several
of the measures initiated under the previous operation, including in the areas of governance,
procurement reform and the business enabling environment.
4.12 Prior to PRSG-7, while macroeconomic management had been commendable,
progress on structural reforms was mixed. Progress had been made in cotton and
agriculture sector reform with the privatization of SONAPRA. Similarly, the sale of public
companies such as the cement company (SCO), the wood company, and the withdrawal of
Government ownership in Continental Bank were positive. Electricity sector reform
permitting the entry of private operators in the distribution market was also a positive step.
Nonetheless, delays were evident in other important reform areas. Civil service reform had
progressed very slowly despite Government recognition of the need for reform. This is
rendered more difficult by influential public sector unions and the inherently political nature
of such reforms. On the private sector enabling environment, Benin has largely stagnated in
its Doing Business Indicators (DBI), falling to rank no. 175 in 2012 from 173 in 2011.
4.13  Port reforms demonstrated significantly increased momentum during the PRSG-
7 period, including the establishment of the "guichet unique", the streamlining of
import/export procedures, the subcontracting of key port operations to the private sector,
reform of the import verification program, and consolidation of informatics systems. These
measures should, once effectively implemented, improve service to the private sector. Benin
ranks relatively well in the DBI trade area, 130 of 183 countries. Costs to import and export
are low compared to African countries -- US$1,549 to import a container compared to the
SSA average of US$2,567 and US$1,079 to export a container compared to a SSA cost of
US$1,990. Many of the necessary steps have now been taken to return the Port of Cotonou to
its position as the most competitive port in the region. However, the scale of the reforms,
limited capacity to implement this reform agenda and the resistance encountered delayed the
realization of expected benefits - benefits which should become increasingly apparent over
16


﻿time. Nonetheless, the required scale of effort in this area, particularly around resolution of
the PVI and its implementation, should not be underestimated.
4.14  Decentralization efforts in the water sector supported under PRSCs 4-6 were
very successful. Funds were transferred from the center to local communities and were
effectively utilized in the provision of potable water services. PPPs were fostered and there is
now significant private sector participation in the delivery of water with over 30 percent of
village water systems managed under PPP arrangements. Targets for access to potable water
in rural areas were exceeded, while targets in urban areas were basically met - both now over
50 percent. This is one area where Benin is likely to meet its MDG target.
4.15  Progress in education and health were more ambiguous. The notable progress
achieved in 2007 and 2008 on key health sector outcome indicators was mostly sustained
through 2011, though not improved upon. The utilization rate of basic health services by the
general population slightly improved, from 45.6 in 2008 to 47 percent in 2011, while the
utilization rate by children under-five improved from 76.1 percent in 2009 to 81 percent in
2011. Immunization coverage for children under 11 months increased from 94.2 percent in
2008 to 98 percent in 2009/10. The proportion of deliveries attended by health personnel
remained stable at 78 percent. C-sections increased from 4 percent of deliveries in 2007 to 7
percent in 2011 -- a result of the free c-sections policy implemented in April 2009. The MOH
has decided to extend the hygiene and basic sanitation marketing approach, supported on a
pilot basis under the PRSC-6, to the twelve departments of the country; the ultimate goal
being to help prevent the recurrent upsurge of diseases such as cholera and diarrhea that
particularly affect children under five. The coverage rate of household latrines broadly
reached its target of 46.5 percent, while the coverage at school level stands at 82.5 percent,
against a 2011 objective of 80.7 percent.
4.16  The Government has pursued efforts to curb the high morbidity and mortality
rates linked to malaria with the support of the Bank and other donors. Data released in
September 2011 by the National Health Information System (SNIGS) indicate that in 2010,
while malaria continued to be the leading cause of visits to health facilities (43.9%), the
number of deaths due to malaria is steadily decreasing, especially among children under five,
falling from 767 in 2009 to 651 in 2010. At end June 2011 (at the closing of the IDA-
financed Benin Malaria Control Project) the number of households with at least one
insecticide-treated bednet (ITN) reached 73 percent; with 76 percent of children under five
and 60 percent of pregnant women sleeping under a long lasting insecticide-treated bednet
(LLIN). In September 2011, the Government organized a campaign during which 4,500,000
LLINs were distributed. The Government is also providing free malaria treatment and care to
pregnant women and children under five, in line with the country's strategy to strengthen
human capital and reduce poverty. Under a new National Malaria Control Plan, the
Government aims to reduce the number of malaria cases by 75 percent and to reach near zero
deaths due to malaria (1 death per 100,000 inhabitants) by 2015.
4.17  In education, enrollment has increased significantly over the last few years, but
progress in increasing primary completion rates (PCR) has been slow. The primary gross
enrollment rate increased from 98.5 percent in 2006/07 to 119.7 percent following the free
basic education policy. Pre-school enrolment also increased, from 4.5 percent in 2006/07 to
12.5 percent in 2011/12. Girls' participation improved from 92 percent to 116.8 percent.
Gender parity is progressing with girls representing 46.8 percent of total primary education
enrolment compared to 44.4 percent in 2005/06. Despite these achievements, completion
rates improved only marginally and Benin is not on track to meet universal PCR targets; the
17


﻿PCR improved from 65 percent in 2005/06 to 71.6 percent in 2011/12, while girls' PCR
increased from 54.3 percent in 2005/06 to 65.8 percent. This slow improvement in PCR is
explained by the low quality of education and the persistent high repetition and dropout rates
(the repetition rate increased from 7.5 percent in 2005/06 to 12 percent in 2011/12 vs. a target
of 10%). In line with SCRP priorities and PRSC outcome indicators, the Government has
continued to allocate an increasing share of its budget to the sector and to implement its free
primary education policy adopted in October 2006.
4.18  In the area of governance, the Government has made progress in strengthening
PFM. A new procurement code was adopted by the National Assembly and decrees related
to establishing the regulatory framework were included in PRSG-7 as prior actions. Full
implementation of the procurement reforms will, however, require the extension of
procurement training to all priority ministries and parastatals. During the PRSC 4-6 period,
the Government had completed the audit of electronic public expenditure systems and
prepared a comprehensive action plan to strengthen public finance management based on the
findings of the 2007 PEFA. A PEFA self-assessment was completed in March 2012. The use
of exceptional procedures was reduced as was the backlog on external audits. Progress was
also made in the area of internal and external audits with the preparation and implementation
of an action plan to further close the backlog in budget execution laws, which are now being
executed according to an agreed schedule. Despite these positive steps, further improvements
in PFM are needed. In particular, budget execution procedures need to be streamlined, public
procurement capacities strengthened and the effectiveness of internal and external audit
institutions increased.
4.19  The fight against corruption has received renewed attention and the passage of
anti-corruption legislation was a prior action under PRSG-7. PRSC-8 now seeks to support
implementation of this legislation and render it effective. The President has noted that efforts
to combat corruption, particularly at the port, in the customs administration and within the
judicial system are key personal priorities.
E. LESSONS LEARNED AND ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
Lessons Learned
4.20  There are a number of lessons that can be drawn from the previous PRSC 4-6 series
and the PRSG-7 stand-alone operation. These include:
4.21  Experience with the PRSG-7 operation clearly demonstrated that Bank
encouragement of a more meaningful reform effort can be effective. Delaying the
operation, presenting it as a stand-alone operation and communicating a message that
demonstrable commitment from the authorities was needed, was instrumental in accelerating
certain reforms that had been languishing.
4.22  It is clear that policy actions are often not enough to effect significant, sustainable
change. While policy actions are necessary to create an environment conducive to change,
additional enabling interventions are also frequently required. Over the past PRSC series
greater impact was achieved by increasingly focusing prior actions and triggers in areas where
there was significant complementary Bank action in terms of investment or TA operations, or
in some cases complementary donor activities that closely aligned with the PRSC. The Bank
and donors are particularly involved in the areas noted in this PRSC, namely, strengthening
18


﻿public financial management and administration, strengthening and improving the private
sector enabling environment, including in the port, and in agricultural diversification efforts.
4.23  A PRSC can be more effective if the reform agenda supported by the series goes
deeper rather than broader. In addition to including key policy actions in the operation, it
will be beneficial if supporting actions, those related to implementation measures or second
generation reforms associated with the initial policy action, are also included in the operation.
Focusing on fewer areas, but ensuring more fulsome and meaningful reform can improve
effectiveness. This current PRSC further enhances the focus by focusing on fewer areas and
designing prior actions such that they support the direct implementation of earlier reforms.
4.24  Coherence across prior actions and triggers is also important to ensure synergy
and effectiveness and sustainability of supported reforms. Actions in this operation have been
selected to complement each other and to present a logical and coherent package of reforms.
4.25  This coherence extends to engagement, cooperation and coordination with other
donors. The previous series and the stand-alone PRSG-7 operation benefited from significant
donor cooperation and coherence, which strengthened donor influence and allowed for more
effective engagement with the authorities. It also eased the burden on Government as joint
reviews allowed for single undertakings on the part of the Government. The current donor
engagement process will continue, including joint annual progress reviews, joint quarterly
meetings with the Government, and joint adherence to a mutually agreed upon results matrix.
4.26  Strong links to the Government's SCRP were critical to ensuring local ownership
of the reform agenda and successful implementation of reforms. Experience with the
previous series confirmed that local ownership is a key determinant to the effectiveness of
policy operations. Areas clearly and closely aligned with the SCRP, and fully reflected in the
Government's budget, realized greater success. This PRSC is directly in-line with the SCRP
(2011-2015) and prior actions fully reflect associated Government action plans.
4.27  Obstacles due to resistance to change and lack of capacity should not be
underestimated. Selectivity and simplicity of design are essential to success in such
environments, as is realism about the scope and pace of reform. The difficulties encountered
around port reforms supported under PRSG-7 were a clear illustration of this phenomenon.
4.28  Related to the previous point, PRSG-7 highlighted the importance of providing
well-targeted technical assistance and ESW in support of key reforms where government
capacity, though not commitment or determination, may be lacking. Bank provided support
to civil service reform under PRSG-7 was instrumental in assisting the Government with
implementation of the supported reform agenda. The level of such TA and ESW support is of
course dependent on available bank budget.
4.29  Finally, stated objectives and monitored results indicators need to be realistic,
focused on indicators that are attributable to supported actions and consistent over a
meaningful period of time. The prior PRSC series focused on indicators where attribution to
specific actions under the PRSC was difficult, if not impossible, and where exogenous factors
weighed heavily on the achievement, or non-achievement, of results; the level of cotton
production or the level of private investment being examples. Furthermore, changing
indicators from one series to the next does not allow for the tracking of progress in areas
where such progress takes considerable time to achieve objectives or effect meaningful
19


﻿change. The performance indicators used here follow, to the extent possible, the indicators
used in the PRSG-7.
4.30  PRSC-8 benefits from several analytical reports. In the area of public financial
management, the 2007 PEFA and the Government's responding action plan, the 2010 Public
Expenditure Review (PER), the 2011 Analysis of Central Financial Agencies undertaken
jointly by the World Bank and the UNDP, and the 2012 PEFA self-assessment all provided
valuable insight.
4.31  The 2010 PER provided particularly meaningful insight on issues around budget
execution, a key result indicator in this operation. The 2011 Analysis of Central Financial
Agencies similarly provided valuable knowledge of budget planning, budget execution,
auditing and reporting, the role of the National Assembly in PFM, and greater consideration
of political economy issues rather than simply focusing on technical budget management and
execution. Finally, the Government's 2009 report entitled, "An Action Plan for Improving
Public Financial Management 2009-2013" served as a basic reference document concerning
the Government's reform plan, intentions and their understanding of the challenges facing
PFM reform in Benin.
4.32  In the area of private sector development, useful analysis was included in the 2005
Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) and the annual Doing Business Reports. These reports
helped identify the major impediments to private sector development in Benin. The 2009
Country Economic Memorandum identified the main factors constraining growth and
diversification of the economy.
4.33  In public infrastructure, a series of studies on port operations and port productivity
provided input to the Government's port action plan. Input and analysis from World Bank
sector experts integrally involved in related investment operations in the transport, port and
trade areas were valuable in making the links between investment operations and the related
policy objectives. Such interaction also provided important reality checks on the relevance,
impact, ambition and feasibility of various reforms, as well as on capacity constraints
affecting implementation.
4.34  In the area of civil service reform, significant insight was provided by ESW work
included in the monitoring of PRSG-7 and in the preparation of the PRSC-8. Assistance was
provided to the Government in helping it plan the harmonization and merging of their human
resources information/management systems with their payroll systems in an effort to help
control the wage bill and better manage public service career and payment processes.
Furthermore, studies undertaken with assistance from bilateral donors, namely the
Netherlands and Denmark, on public sector remuneration and a stock-taking of past and on-
going civil service reform efforts in Benin, culminating in the development of a civil service
reform plan, were extremely useful in informing and furthering Bank engagement on this
important topic.
4.35  Finally, the Government's 2010 and 2011 reports on performance under SCRPs
II and III were instrumental in understanding where progress had been made, where
challenges remained and where scaled up efforts are required. The related results matrix was
also useful in tracking progress on key indicators related to the SCRPs, including many which
were relevant to the PRSC-6, were included in the PRSG-7 and which have been retained for
PRSC-8. Furthermore, the annual donor review process, including detailed sectoral reviews,
provided not only detailed insight into individual sectoral results, but the opportunity for joint
20


﻿policy dialogue with the authorities and often frank and transparent discussion of issues and
concerns related to Government reform efforts. This review process and the subsequent aide-
memoires served as important exercises in donor coordination, in the supervision of PRSC
operations and in the identification of potential problem areas.
4.36 Summary of primary analytic underpinnings:
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
2007 PEFA
2009 Action Plan for Improving Public Financial Management 2009-2013
2010 Public Expenditure Review
2011 Analysis of Central Financial Agencies
2012 PEFA
BUSINESS ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
2005 Investment Climate Assessment (ICA)
Annual Doing Business Reports
2009 Country Economic Memorandum
5. THE PROPOSED EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION CREDIT
A. OPERATIONS DESCRIPTION
5.1    PRSC-8 supports implementation of Benin's Strategy for Growth and Poverty
Reduction (SCRP 2011-2015) adopted in March 2011. This section outlines the proposed
PRSC-8 in further detail.
The Overall Framework of the PRSC-8
5.2    PRSC-8 builds on reforms supported under PRSG-7 by continuing to focus on
improving public sector policy and strengthening public administration (budget reform,
procurement reform and public sector governance) and strengthening the business
environment.
5.3    The supported reforms seek to be more narrowly focused than those in prior PRSC
series and are intended to be mutually reinforcing. For example, the selection of public
procurement reform as a subset of public financial management reform is intended not only to
directly strengthen public financial management, but also to address private sector constraints
and to improve the business enabling environment by reducing public procurement
uncertainty -- making it more attractive, more profitable and less risky for private sector
firms. In this manner the supported prior actions present a coherent single package of reforms
rather than a number of independent reforms across a number of sectors.
Development Objectives
5.4   The over-riding development objective, in line with Benin's SCRP, is to accelerate
real economic growth and reduce the incidence of poverty in Benin by focusing on the
following two program objectives or pillars:
21


﻿(i)    Strengthened public sector management, administration and governance; and
(ii)   Strengthened business environment.
5.5    Helping Benin capitalize on its comparative advantages in commerce/trade and in
agriculture and agro-processing is at the heart of this PRSC, as in the CPS. Exploiting these
advantages systematically by creating a business environment conducive to investment in the
most promising sectors will be essential to facilitate the structural transformation necessary to
significantly increase per capita GDP.
5.6    While recent disruptions in the agriculture/cotton sector and at the port prevent
commitment to a programmatic series, ongoing policy dialogue, technical assistance and
AAA activities are supporting the development of a reform program in agriculture and around
port operations that can be supported by a subsequent PRSC series. The Bank remains
integrally involved in policy discussions on these issues through this PRSC, though as noted
these are not reflected in specific prior actions at this time.
5.7    Building on Benin's comparative advantage in agriculture by increasing agricultural
productivity will require public investment in complementary hard and soft infrastructure,
including rural transportation infrastructure, water management and irrigation infrastructure,
and a regulatory and organizational structure that facilitates increased productivity and
effective input distribution and marketing of both cotton and non-cotton production. There is
also ample opportunity for increased value-added in agriculture, in both food and fibre related
processing. However, a weak business enabling environment limits private investment and
inhibits the creation and expansion of agriculture related processing industries.
5.8   In the trade/commerce and services area, increasing productivity and growth will also
require improved infrastructure and a strengthened regulatory environment, particularly in
road, rail and telecommunications services. This will require greater fiscal space to increase
the level of public investment as well as better targeted, prioritized and planned public
investment in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public investment. Again
however, investment must be accompanied on the regulatory and government services side by
effectively managed port, road and rail systems, a transparent customs administration,
efficient border crossings, a transportation services regulatory environment that facilitates the
safe, rapid and low-cost movement of goods, and an investment climate conducive to private
investment in the sector.
5.9    Thus, the strategic vision underlying this CPS is to harness Benin's strategic
advantages in trade/commerce and agriculture in order to spur shared, sustainable growth and
reduce poverty by strengthening public sector management and governance and by
strengthening the business environment.
B. PRIOR ACTIONS FOR THE PROPOSED PRSC-8 AND THE
GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM TERM REFORM PLAN
5.10   PRSC-8 supports selected reform measures in the Government's program of
reforms described in its Letter of Development Policy (LDP) (Schedule 1) deemed
essential for success. These measures are consistent with the SCRP (2011-2015) and Priority
Action Plan. Completion of these prior actions, as defined in the Financial Agreement, forms
the basis for IDA to proceed with the proposed operation. These prior actions build on and
reinforce reforms supported under the previous PRSG-7.
22


﻿5.11   Table 5.1 presents the prior actions for PRSC-8 as set within the Government's
medium-term reform framework in these areas. All prior actions have been completed.
Table 5.1: Prior Actions and Subsequent Actions
PRSC-8 Prior Actions
PILLAR 1: PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE
BUDGET PREPARATION AND EXECUTION
Published, on an ongoing basis beginning with the first quarter of 2012, quarterly budget execution
reports, and made such reports available to the public, including by placing the reports on the MEF's
public website; (prior action 1).
PROCUREMENT
Created the public procurement agencies responsible for the control and awarding of public
procurement contracts and rendered them operational in line with WAEMU directives, specifically
(prior action 2):
(i) The Regulatory Authority for procurement;
(ii) National Directorate of Public Procurement Control and Monitoring;
(iii) Line ministry procurement units.
Adopted a decree specifying the timelines applicable to the control procedures and awarding of public
procurement contracts (prior action 3).
Adopted a decree standardizing public bidding and contract documents (prior action 4).
Adopted a decree nominating the members of the National Public Procurement Council (Conseil
Nationale de R6gulation des March6s Publics) and the decree nominating the permanent secretary of
the public procurement authority (Secr6taire Permanent de l'Authorit6 des March6s Publics) (prior
action 5).
PUBLIC SECTOR GOVERNANCE
Adopted the decrees related to the Anti-Corruption Law (prior action 6):
i. Art. 3: the decree identifying those government appointees, dignitaries and public servants subject
to asset disclosure and declaration;
ii. Art. 8: the decree establishing the terms and conditions of the National Anti-Corruption Authority;
iii. Art. 10: Decree establishing and clarifying exceptions to the prohibition of engaging in gainful
employment for public servants (conflict of interest provisions);
iv. Art. 31: Decree establishing the conditions for the protection of whistleblowers, witnesses, experts
and victims.
Adopted an order relating to the establishment of an Open Data Initiative for public statistics including
those generated by INSAE through its various surveys, activities and operations (prior action 7).
PILLAR 2: BUSINESS ENABLING ENVIRONMENT
Created and made operational the Single Window for Business Formation (GUFE) including the
selection of a Managing Director (prior action 8).
23


﻿Box 5.1: Good Practice Principles for Conditionality
Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
PRSC-8 builds on the foundation of progress achieved during SCRP I and SCRP 11 and is closely aligned
with SCRP (2011-2015) objectives and supports reforms specifically noted in the Priority Action Plan.
Preparation of this operation follows broad-based consultations with central and sectoral ministries, civil
society, the private sector, and donor partners, particularly those involved in the provision of budget
support. As such, this PRSC supports policies and programs for which there is clear evidence of strong
ownership and commitment on the part of the Government.
Principle 2: Agree up front with the Government and financial partners on a coordinated accountability
framework
The supported reforms are summarized in a policy matrix and results framework. The SCRP process and
the move to more programmatic approaches on the part of the donor community have encouraged a greater
coordination between the Bank and those development partners that provide budget support (AfDB, EU,
Denmark, The Netherlands, France and Switzerland). This has led to improved alignment of donor
assistance to Benin's SCRP. On December 4, 2007, an MOU was signed between the Government and
eight development partners providing budget support with a view to consolidating and formalizing this
cooperation. Budget support represents a key instrument in donor-government cooperation around the
implementation of the SCRP and the MOU and donor collaboration ensures the effective and meaningful
coordination of various donor interventions. Joint annual reviews of SCRP progress, as measured against a
jointly agreed to matrix of reforms and indicators remains a key accountability instrument for both the
Government and donors. This performance matrix is updated annually during the joint review to reflect
past performance and establish new performance targets going forward. This process encourages frank
discussion of commitments and responsibilities on the side of both the Government and donors. The Bank
is a full participant in this process.
Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances
In October 2006, the Government announced its strategic orientation for its 2006-2011 Development Plan.
These strategic choices formed the framework for the both the SCRP 11 and SCRP (2011-2015). The
political environment over the past several years has been characterized by a National Assembly consisting
of numerous parties, none enjoying a majority. This led to the need to be constantly managing shifting
coalitions and made meaningful reform more difficult. However, following the 2011 elections, and with the
President now enjoying a working majority coalition in the National Assembly, there is a clear opportunity
for more ambitious and more meaningful reform. Reforms supported under the PRSG-7 demonstrated clear
commitment to this ambitious reform agenda. Therefore, Bank support for important policy reforms is
based on a clear understanding of Benin's specific circumstances and the opportunity that now exists for the
implementation of meaningful reforms.
Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement
Prior actions are those agreed to with Government as critical to the achievement of SCRP objectives. The
broader donor community, including the IMF, agrees with the criticality of the noted prior actions. The
actions follow logically to results, largely as presented and determined by the Government.
Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support
As agreed with Government, joint SCRP reviews and joint budget support and appraisal missions take place
yearly. In this context, progress in implementing the SCRP and monitoring donor budget support is
reviewed regularly, drawing primarily on Benin's own monitoring and evaluation cycle. To ensure timely
feedback into the policymaking and budget processes and to strengthen the alignment and harmonization of
financial partners support around Government budget cycles, the authorities and development partners
conduct joint missions in June so that the process can inform the following year's budget preparation
process. Progress has also been made in strengthening the SCRP results framework and in using clear
baseline indicators for results measurement.
24


﻿Results Framework
5.12   Table 5.2 presents indicators used to measure progress in meeting the objectives of
this operation. Indicators included in Table 5.2 are primarily a sub-set of those as presented
in the SCRP (2011-2015). The indicators are consistent with those in the PRSG-7, as PRSC-8
builds on the reforms initiated under that previous operation. The continuity of indicators also
takes into account the difficulty of attributing results to a single operation, as compared to a
series of related operations spanning a number of years.
5.13   The PRSC's development results necessarily arise from       the collaborative and
harmonized efforts of many actors, including efforts of the Government of Benin, the donor
community, domestic stakeholders, institutions, domestic and foreign private sectors, and are
also influenced by exogenous factors. The World Bank itself will deliver results through
several finance and knowledge instruments, including not only the measures supported by this
operation, but also through the policy dialogue process, TA and AAA products delivered in
association with PRSC-8. Results indicators reflect the impact of this broader engagement
and PRSC influence.
Table 5.2: Outcome Indicators Matrix
Indicator                                   Historic            Baseline  Indicative targets
2009         2010        2011           2013
Average public procurement delay (days):
- Goods                                  54           88          64            <55
- Services                               62           80          71            <65
- Public works                           92           91          59            <75
Average payment delay (days)            19.5         17.6         15             <15
Budget execution rates - current
expenditures (% excluding salaries):
- Ministry of Health                     67           71          86            >80
- Ministry of Water and Energy           91           74          67            >80
- Ministry of Primary Education          34           60          86             >80
- Ministry of Secondary Education        48           63          81             >80
- Ministry of Agriculture                56           43          54            >80
Budget execution rates -- public
investment (%):
- Ministry of Health                     28           27          38            >60
- Ministry of Water and Energy           29           87          48            >60
- Ministry of Primary Education          11           61          69             >60
- Ministry of Secondary Education        23           65          15             >60
- Ministry of Agriculture                             20          24            >60
Budget execution rates -- priority social                         75             >90
expenditures
Publication of quarterly budget execution  Not published  Not     Not      Published within 3
reports within 3 months of end of quarter          published   published       months
Corruption Perceptions Index             2.8          3.0         3.6       Improvement in
(rank)                             (110)        (100)       (94)        Index, >3.6
Time to start a business (days)          31           31          26             <20
5.14   The indicative targets are largely as presented in the Government's SCRP 2011-
2015. It is deemed preferable to use the Government's stated targets as expressed in the
SCRP rather than develop separate targets. Most indicative targets are appropriate and remain
relevant. Even in cases where indicative targets appear to have already been achieved, these
remain relevant as the objective is often to maintain this level of performance and not back-
slide, i.e., to maintain budget execution rates above 80 percent.
25


﻿C. POLICY AREAS
PILLAR 1: Public Financial Management and Public Administration
Budget Planning and Execution
5.15  The 2012 PEFA and the 2010 Public Expenditure Review indicate that PFM in Benin
has shown some modest improvement. Table 5.3 notes the improvement achieved between
the 2007 PEFA and the 2012 PEFA.
Table 5.3: PEFA Ratings 2007 versus 2012
2007         2012
Number of indicators rated A            0             0
Number of indicators rated B            4             7
Number of indicators rated C            15           14
Number of indicators rated D            12           10
Total number of indicators              31           31
Number of sub-indicators rated A        4             9
Number of sub-indicators rated B        15           19
Number of sub-indicators rated C        32           26
Number of sub-indicators rated D        23           22
Total number of sub-indicators          74           76
5.16  Improvement    has  stemmed   from   reforms  to: institutionalize  program
budgets, including procedures for their preparation, implementation and control; computerize
budget execution, accounting and reporting; strengthen the design and implementation of
procurement reforms; and improve internal budget control. However, weaknesses remain,
including: a large amount of unallocated funds in the budget; lack of comprehensiveness in
presentation of the budget; weak alignment between sector policies and the budget; poor
management of the wage bill; weak procurement capacity; insufficient monitoring of financial
risks associated with state-owned enterprises and decentralized spending; difficulties in
obtaining information on budget execution; and weak internal and external oversight.
5.17 However, three main challenges remain: (i) reinforcing budget planning and
strategy to improve budget credibility and the quality of public spending; (ii) streamlining
budget execution and improving financial reporting; and (iii) strengthening financial
accountability. The implementation of the measures supported by PRSC-8 and related
measures being undertaken by the Government should lead to measureable improvements in
PFM through support to improving budget preparation, execution, reporting and control.
5.18 The new Organic Budget Law (LOLF) was introduced to the National Assembly
on October 24, 2012 and was supported as a prior action in PRSG-7. The new LOLF, which
incorporates the 2009 WAEMU directives, introduces major PFM reforms and a new legal
and institutional budget framework. However, this will require a significant effort and will
require time to fully implement. As such, the Government has developed a strategy and
action plan for implementation of the new LOLF. Discussions are ongoing around these
measures and future operations will in all likelihood support some of the more critical
measures.
26


﻿5.19  Raising budget execution rates represents a main challenge in ensuring the PFM
system and related reforms support the objective of sustained growth and poverty reduction.
The 2004 PER estimated that the variance between realized spending and the voted budget
averaged 20 percent between 1997 and 2003, representing an overall budget execution rate of
80 percent on average. The 2010 PER indicated that overall budget execution rates had
worsened, moving from a level of 79.3 percent in 2007 to 70.5 percent in 2009. In terms of
current expenditures budget execution rates improved significantly in 2011 over the dismal
performance in 2010. The execution rate for current expenditures was 81 percent in 2008, 88
percent in 2009, 69 percent in 2010, and 87 percent in 2011.
5.20  Of particular concern is that execution rates for investment spending are
persistently low -- 62 percent in 2008, 50 percent in 2009, 28 percent in 2010 though
rebounding to 44 percent in 2011. These low execution rates on investment projects stem
from a low capacity to plan and implement projects and a low capacity in undertaking
procurement processes.
5.21  Low execution rates and poor program monitoring mechanisms led to an implicit
reallocation away from priority areas of the SCRP. While execution rates have been low
in both priority and non-priority areas, the gap in budget execution rates between non-priority
and priority programs had widened through end-20 11. Execution rates were particularly low
for technical education and training (61 percent), health (68 percent) and agriculture (71
percent). These trends translated to an average share of priority sector spending in total
spending of 51 percent, compared to an average share of 57.5 in the voted budget. In 2011,
priority social sector spending as identified in the ECF program with the IMF realized an
execution rate of only 75 percent, as compared to the overall budget execution rate of 87
percent.
5.22  The Government has adopted a number of reforms to address these issues. To
ensure that priority spending is not compromised, the Government has explicitly identified
priority social expenditures in the budget. However, the third review of the ECF program
(based on end-September 2011 data) found that this indicative target was missed. This was
due to failures in the monitoring system to ensure adequate attention to these expenditures and
to lower than expected revenues, which necessitated expenditure reductions, including in
priority areas. Subsequently, the monitoring system has been strengthened and execution
rates on priority expenditures have improved through 2012. As of end-September 2012, ECF
identified priority social spending totaled CFAF 110.1 billion against a target of CFAF 104
billion.
5.23  The use of exceptional payment orders disrupts budget execution and weakens
internal control, though the occasional need for the use of such a mechanism is recognized.
The Government has regularized all 2011 exceptional payment orders and going forward will
limit the use of exceptional payment orders to those explicitly authorized under current
legislation and will regularize such orders as quickly as possible and at least quarterly.
5.24  The centralization of budget execution within the Ministry of Finance is excessive
and impedes line ministries from executing their budget. The inclusion of unallocated funds
in the budget, under the control of the Ministry of Finance, is particularly problematic. While
unallocated funds represented 14 percent of the budget in 2010 and 10 percent in 2011 and
2012, they represent more than this in actual government commitments. High execution rates
in the use of unallocated funds by the Ministry of Finance (84 percent), combined with low
execution rates among line ministries, contributed to unallocated funds totaling 24 percent of
27


﻿government commitments in 2010. Furthermore, the flexibility enjoyed by the Ministry of
Finance in the use of unallocated funds allows the executive, intentional or otherwise, to
avoid returning to the National Assembly for a supplementary budget should expenditures
diverge significantly from the budget - diversions being accommodated by unallocated funds.
5.25   The Ministry of Finance has excessive power to withhold budget provision. Due
to shortfalls in revenue, the Government frequently resorts to closing down SIGFIP once
spending has reached the level of available resources. With no prior notification this disrupts
budget execution in line ministries and in the case of priority expenditures requires the
personal intervention of line ministry staff with the Ministry of Finance, i.e., line ministry
staff must personally contact Ministry of Finance staff and insist on receiving expenditure
authority. While better matching expenditures to available resources, this approach is not
conducive to improved service delivery. Clearer measures and rules pertaining to the use of
budget withholding by the Ministry of Finance would provide line ministries with more
visibility in budget execution.
5.26   The streamlining of the public chain of expenditure is an area of ongoing
discussion. Line ministries should be empowered to execute their budget in accordance with
the budget adopted by Parliament. Going beyond the current delegation of the Minister of
Finance's budget authority to line ministries, which remains largely theoretical, the
Government should prepare for the transition to full devolution of budget authority to all
Ministries, consistent with WAEMU directive 06/2009 provisions. A pilot of this reform in
selected line ministries is an area of continuing discussion.
5.27   Both the 2007 and 2012 PEFA assessments noted that internal and external
oversight institutions were among the main weaknesses. Strengthening these institutions
would have a major impact on enhancing the transparency of PFM and in demonstrating
Government commitment to intensify its fight against corruption. Some progress has been
made to reinforce the status and effectiveness of the general inspectorates and to coordinate
their programs in order to avoid duplication. Since 2007, the Inspection Generale d'Etat
(State General Inspectorate) has coordinated the planning and monitoring of internal oversight
departments and institutions. However, little has been done to develop risk-based audit work
plans in order to focus activities on high priority objectives. Furthermore, internal audit is not
fully operational in all central government entities in that ministerial inspectorate units remain
weak because of their poorly defined legal status and important capacity constraints.
5.28   The independence and professionalism    of the Chamber of Accounts of the
Supreme Court (Chambres des Comptes) should be strengthened. Its effectiveness is
limited and the extent of the audit backlog is of concern, though the process has accelerated
over the past year and efforts are being made to close the backlog.1  Furthermore, the
Chambres des Comptes is currently under the oversight of the Supreme Court, and its status is
not in-line with WAEMU regulations and the principles of the Lima Declaration on the
independence of Supreme Audit Institutions, which require an independent Court of
Accounts. A working group has prepared a draft law to create a Court of Accounts, however,
revision of the Constitution is needed, which makes the timing of this reform uncertain.
1 Progress was recorded in 2012 as delays in auditing State Accounts were reduced. However, delays are still
important regarding the ratification of audited budget accounts by Parliament. The last budget audit approved by
the National Assembly is that of fiscal year 2004. A schedule for catching up on these audits has been
established. The 2005 through 2009 accounts have been submitted to the NA, while 2010 and 2011 are at the
Supreme Court prior to being submitted to the NA.
28


﻿5.29  Furthermore, to increase transparency in budget reporting, quarterly budget
execution reports are now being published. Included as a prior action, this will further
enhance budget transparency and public access, and is seen as a critical measure to ensure that
the Government can be held accountable for efforts to improve budget execution and the
delivery of government services. Making budget execution results publicly available not only
provides direct incentive to execute the Government's stated budget, but is seen as critical to
ensuring demand-side pressure from the public, from civil society and from the donor
community, for improving the effective and cost-efficient delivery of government services.
The budget is also published annually, is publicly accessible and has been for a number of
years.
5.30  Prior actions for PRSC-8 are as follows:
Published, on an ongoing basis beginning with the first quarter of 2012, quarterly budget
execution reports, and made such reports available to the public, including by placing the
reports on the MEF's public website.
Procurement
5.31  The public procurement process in Benin is a major constraint to development.
The overlap and synergy of procurement reforms with an improved private sector enabling
environment is substantial as improving the public procurement process can be a significant
enabler for private sector expansion and competitiveness. Engaging in public procurement
can be a positive experience for firms in building capacity, gaining needed experience and in
growing their businesses. In discussions with the banking sector, commercial banks in Benin
view delays in public procurement processes, delayed and late payments, and related
uncertainty as increasing financial risks faced by the private sector in contracting with the
Government. As such, banks are reluctant to lend to private sector interests doing business
with the Government and this leads to many firms being credit constrained.
5.32  Cumbersome, slow and less than fully transparent procurement processes also
significantly affect the public investment program. Not only does ineffective public
procurement add to the cost of public works projects, but projects are frequently delayed for
months, or worse, unable to be implemented at all due to long public procurement delays.
This affects not only the use of the Government's own resources, but also leads to long delays
and low disbursement rates in donor financed investment projects. Hence, support to
procurement reform is important to improving budget execution rates across all sectors and in
improving the operational performance of other Bank and donor activities in Benin.
5.33  A new Procurement Code was passed in August 2009, but it has taken time to put
the necessary regulatory framework in place. Most of the procurement decrees have now
been implemented and were recognized as prior actions under PRSG-7. The final decree and
the creation, staffing and resourcing of the procurement agencies responsible for the public
procurement process are supported under PRSC-8 as prior actions. These actions are of
critical importance in ensuring that the new procurement code is fully implemented.
5.34  The potential for significant resistance to fundamental reform      of the
procurement process should not be under-estimated. The substantial delay between
passage of the new procurement code in 2009 and completion/approval of the supporting
decrees in 2012 may reflect not only capacity constraints, but more fundamentally internal
resistance to reform by those with vested interests in maintaining current arrangements. On-
29


﻿going measures to further strengthen procurement processes, oversight and control is planned
and may be supported by future operations as well as by activities being undertaken by other
donors.
5.35  Nonetheless, progress has been made and several procurement measures have
been undertaken simultaneously with the passage of the relevant decrees, including the
preparation of a manual on public procurement procedures, an appeals procedures manual,
and a guide to assist firms in understanding and accessing the public procurement process.
These documents now need to be disseminated across ministries, procurement agencies and to
the private sector. A feasibility study has also been undertaken on the development of a new
Integrated Public Procurement Management System  (SIGMAP).    In terms of ex-ante
procurement control, a reference price software system has been designed and in terms of ex-
post control the strengthening of technical supervision skills has commenced through the
training of financial program performance auditors.
5.36  The Government has adopted standardized public bidding and contractual
documents and this is viewed as an important step to improve transparency, fairness
and to ensure more competitive procurement processes. This measure is supported as a
prior action under this operation and not only serves to strengthen public procurement
processes, but is also important in strengthening the business environment by creating a more
level and competitive public procurement environment for the private sector. This should
also reduce delays in public procurement processes and in payments, as standardization
should lead to fewer exceptions, anomalies and an improved understanding of contractual
arrangements and expectations on both the Government and private sector sides of the
contractual arrangement.
5.37  Maintaining momentum on these procurement reforms is important. Hence the
focus on procurement reform in the Government's medium-term reform plan that goes
substantially deeper than just the passage of the decrees and the enabling regulatory and
institutional environment.  Efforts to establish effective and functioning procurement
institutions and to devolve procurement authority from central institution control are
important to breaking the long standing links between existing procurement authorities and
traditional goods and services providers. The prior action specifying timelines around the
control and awarding of procurement contracts is intended to disrupt this connection as central
procurement authorities will be unable to withhold approval on arbitrary grounds. Support to
anti-corruption efforts and the establishment of an effective anti-corruption authority are also
intricately linked to achieving this objective.
5.38  A process of annual evaluations of the procurement process will begin in 2013, in
order to implement a system of monitoring, evaluation, learning, modifying and maintaining
best practice in the area of procurement. This will serve as a mechanism to regularly review
processes, identify issues and take corrective action.
5.39  Prior actions for PRSC-8 are as follows:
Created the public procurement agencies responsible for the control and awarding of
public procurement contracts and rendered them operational in line with WAEMU
directives, specifically; (i) the Regulatory Authority for procurement; (ii) National
Directorate of Public Procurement Control and Monitoring; and (iii) line ministry
procurement units.
30


﻿Adopted a decree specifying the timelines applicable to the control procedures and
awarding of public procurement contracts.
Adopted standardized public bidding and contract documents.
Adopted a decree nominating the members of the National Public Procurement
Council (Conseil Nationale de R6gulation des March6s Publics) and the decree
nominating the permanent secretary of the public procurement authority (Secr6taire
Permanent de l'Authorit6 des March6s Publics.
Public Sector Governance
5.40   Combating corruption has been a stated priority of President Yayi since he took
office in 2006, and the preparation of anti-corruption legislation has been in the works almost
since that time.  The drafting of such legislation, however, was delayed, but gained
momentum, following his re-election in March 2011 and the inclusion of the legislation as a
key prior action under PRSG-7. The National Assembly passed the legislation on August 30,
2011.
5.41   The legislation is comprehensive. It addresses all forms of corruption including,
fraud, embezzlement, misuse of public funds, influence peddling, party and electoral
financing, public procurement, nepotism and favoritism in hiring practices, and provides for
stiff penalties; imposing the stiffest penalties for those in high public office and those
occupying key positions. The legislation establishes a National Authority to Combat
Corruption made up of 13 representatives, including members of civil society and the private
sector. Although operating with rather independent powers, this authority will be situated in
the Presidency. A corruption hot-line that directs callers directly to the Presidency has also
been established and its creation has been communicated publicly.
5.42   The real test of effectiveness will come in implementation. PRSC-8 proposes prior
actions intended to support implementation of this important legislation, namely the passage
of the main decrees required by the legislation. A key lesson of experience is that tackling
corruption needs to be waged simultaneously on two fronts -- prevention and enforcement -
and the prior actions and the Government's planned measures support efforts in both realms.
The Government has requested Bank assistance in further refining its strategy and action plan
for combatting corruption.
5.43   Income and asset disclosure (IAD) systems are gaining prominence as a tool in
the fight against corruption, and have the potential to support efforts in both prevention and
enforcement. This contribution is recognized in the United Nations Convention Against
Corruption (UNCAC) and other international agreements. IAD systems require that public
officials declare their income, assets, and financial interests and are intended to prevent and
detect the use of public office for private gain and to build a climate of integrity in public
administration. An IAD system can also provide timely and much-needed guidance around
the principles and behaviors of ethical conduct in public office, and remind officials that their
behavior is subject to scrutiny. It also provides a means for monitoring inconsistencies or
irregularities in officials' declared income and assets, and for detecting and avoiding potential
conflicts of interest.
5.44   The supported prior action sets out, among other things, who is subject to asset
disclosure and conflict of interest provisions with the list extending from the President on
down through Ministers, judges, court appointees, including the supreme court and
31


﻿constitutional court, senior government appointments, etc. It includes senior levels of the
bureaucracy, including military and police staff. It includes all elected officials from
parliamentarians to municipal mayors and council members and extends to managers and
senior officials of public enterprises, all Customs officers, and officers of any private
company in which the state holds an ownership interest. In this regard it is comprehensive.
To ensure implementation, the next step will be to define the parameters of the disclosure
system. TA/advisory services in this regard are being considered and measures related to
implementation will be included in the next PRSC series.
5.45   It must be recognized that the fight against corruption is a long term process and
that measurable progress is difficult in the short term. The Corruption Perceptions
Indicator is included as an indicator for measuring improvement, though efforts are underway
with the authorities to define better indicators for subsequent operations. An integral part of
the implementation process is the need for monitoring and tracking of the enforcement
process. This goes beyond the monitoring of traditional perceptions-based indicators of
corruption. As such, the Bank will assist the authorities to monitor enforcement by helping
develop a system to identify, collect and track performance measures that can be acted upon,
i.e., actionable indicators. The identification of such indicators and the resultant need to track
them and report on them is in itself seen as providing an incentive to effectively implement
the legislation and again may generate demand-side pressure for meaningful action against
corruption.
5.46   An open data initiative is also being supported as a measure to strengthen
governance by providing access to public statistics for academics, researchers, civil society
organizations and the general public. This is seen as a critical step in fostering greater public
debate and engagement on public policy issues and in fostering greater transparency.
Statistics generated by INSAE are not currently available or published by INSAE and this
measure will bring INSAE and the statistical environment in Benin more in-line with current
data sharing norms.
5.47   Prior actions for PRSC-8 are as follows:
Adopted the decrees related to the Anti-Corruption Law:
a. Art. 3: Decree identifying those government appointees, dignitaries and public
servants subject to asset disclosure and declaration;
b. Art. 8: Decree establishing the terms and conditions of the National Anti-
Corruption Authority;
c. Art. 10: Decree establishing and clarifying exceptions to the prohibition of
engaging in gainful employment for public servants (conflict of interest
provisions);
d. Art. 31: Decree establishing the conditions for the protection of whistleblowers,
witnesses, experts and victims.
Adopted an order relating to the establishment of an Open Data Initiative for public
statistics including those generated by INSAE through its various surveys, activities
and operations.
32


﻿PILLAR 2: Private Sector Competitiveness and Economic Diversification
Transport, Port and Customs Administration Reform
5.48   The transport sector is key to maintaining and strengthening the comparative
advantage Benin enjoys in transit and re-export trade. Effective transportation infrastructure
and services support not only transit and re-export trade, but also the domestic economy and
efforts aimed at economic diversification and regional development. It is thus central to
future economic growth and development.
5.49   However, recent political developments in the port around the PVI program have
created an uncertain short-term policy environment within which it is difficult to
identify critical prior actions. As such, PRSC-8 will not address port and transport issues.
Nonetheless, substantive dialogue continues and future operations or programmatic series will
most certainly include support to the port and transport sectors.
5.50   Despite the setbacks, recent improvements at the port are notable. The Guichet
Unique is functioning, new construction is proceeding, expanded facilities for truck parking
and staging areas are in place, new lighting systems have been installed and a state of the art
security system is in place. A policy note on port performance was delivered to the
Government in November 2012 and the authorities took prompt action on several
recommendations included therein.2 The port is now operating 7 days a week and 24 hours
per day, a single truck entry point now exists to better control truck entry, a pre-authorization
system for truck entry has been established, and a system to monitor truck time in the port has
been installed with the imposition of fines and penalties for prolonged duration in the port.
As a result, dwell times have fallen considerably and costs have come down.
5.51   Nonetheless, some of the previous inefficient practices continue, including the
unloading of containers within the port and the re-consolidation of several containers into a
single truck, the unloading of bulk shipments with bagging taking place at quayside instead of
off-site (a very slow process), over-loaded trucks exiting the port and bypassing scales, etc.
Furthermore and critically, the PVI program has yet to be re-tendered with scanners
remaining non-operational and the GPS truck tracking system non-functional. Dialogue
around port performance and the PVI in particular continues and engagement of the port
authorities with the Bank and other international institutions is constructive. As the reform
program in the port matures and PVI measures become more concrete, support to these
important reforms will be provided in subsequent PRSC series.
5.52   In sum, the Port of Cotonou is in a transition period, though progress has
accelerated over the past few months. Despite notable progress, there are remaining political
and capacity related factors that have to be considered over the transition period. Time is
needed for the authorities to fully implement and fully integrate these changes, but the
building blocks for future improved port performance are now largely in place.
5.53   At the time of PRSG-7 approval in December 2011, concern arose over a
Presidential decree which directed the immediate movement by rail of all incoming
containers destined for Niger to a facility at Allada, some 50 kilometres from the port. This
decree had been prompted by a request of the owner of Benin Control, the operator of the PVI
program at the time, with a view to alleviating the container backlog and the serious truck
2 While it may have contributed to the reforms, other development partners have also been active in the port,
33


﻿congestion in and around the port. Concern was expressed about the lack of transparency
involved in the decision and the failure to consider potential alternative solutions or
arrangements. Bank Staff and management immediately engaged the authorities on the issue,
including the President, and assurances were provided that this was a temporary solution -
one that offered an immediate fix to a substantial problem while consideration could be given
to longer term solutions. Despite difficulties encountered in ramping up rail capacity to move
the containers, in the end the congestion and backlog were alleviated.
5.54   However, the movement of in-transit containers to Allada was discontinued
following the dispute with Benin Control, including over associated interests in the cotton
sector. The transfer of containers to Allada ended on May 8, 2012, following the suspension
of the PVI contract with Benin Control on May 2, 2012. Recent improvements in the port
have addressed the congestion problem and the Allada arrangement is now unnecessary.
5.55   Beyond the port, road and rail transport represent key bottlenecks and impose
constraints that will become more apparent as port efficiency improves. There are important
concerns around the current level and condition of road and rail infrastructure and the level of
on-going maintenance, but also around the institutional, regulatory and governance structure
in the transport sector. The "tour de role", or queuing system for trucks which is practiced in
Benin, freight sharing agreements, roadblocks, failure to enforce axle load limits, restrictive
backhaul restrictions, etc., all contribute to an inefficient and high cost transport sector. This
institutional setting leads to significant inefficiencies as it limits competition, reduces
incentives to invest in better performing trucks, provides ample opportunity for rent-seeking,
and imposes needless additional costs.
5.56   However, substantive trucking reform must be addressed regionally. Given the
range of regional agreements in the trucking sector and the inter-dependence between coastal
and land-locked countries in this sector, it is not possible to meaningfully address trucking
sector reforms at the national level. As such, a regional approach to trucking sector reform is
being developed. At the national level, and in terms of PRSC actions, measures may be
included in future PRSCs in order to ensure coherence between regional and national efforts.
5.57   The existing rail line and related rail infrastructure has become largely
dysfunctional. Current rail infrastructure extends from the Port of Cotonou to Parakou --
about half way from Cotonou to the border with Niger. Efforts are underway to privatize the
OCBN (Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de fer) in order to have it play its
rightful role in transporting goods largely destined for Niger. Efforts are also underway to
construct a "dry port" in Parakou to facilitate the loading of trucks destined for Niger at the
rail head. The original intent, and it remains so today, is to extend the rail line to Niamey. An
India-Benin joint venture has been selected to rehabilitate, own and operate the rail line, but
this has encountered delays due to negotiations with Niger, which jointly owns OCBN with
Benin. As the arrangement to privatize the rail operations progresses, related reforms may
present themselves and will be included as appropriate in future operations. However, these
reforms remain difficult to identify at this time and will depend to a considerable extent on the
final form of the concession extended for the railway.
Private Sector Enabling Environment
5.58   Benin has been mired at the bottom of the Doing Business rankings for some
time, falling to 175 out of a total of 183 countries in the 2012 rankings. Measures are being
taken to reverse this downward trajectory. The President has reinvigorated the Investment
34


﻿Climate Council (ICC) in the Presidency and is seeking assistance in both strengthening the
institutional structure as it relates to the business enabling environment and at the technical
level in ensuring the business policy and regulatory environment is appropriate to fostering
growth and competitiveness. The President has asked for direct Bank assistance in this regard
and both the IFC and the WBI are helping strengthen the ICC.
5.59  IFC supported the ICC in developing an action plan for strengthening the
business enabling environment. This action plan identifies key policy, regulatory and
institutional reforms that need to be implemented over the next few years. Some of these may
be supported as prior actions in future operations as they progress.
5.60  Benin has also requested Bank assistance in drafting new PPP legislation and in
forming a PPP unit within government to identify, develop, tender and engage in public-
private joint ventures. The Bank responded positively and is assisting the Government in this
regard. Previously, Benin was entering PPP ventures and contracts with little coordination
and coherence across activities. Many PPP arrangements were in important sectors such as at
the port, around the establishment of dry ports, in the agricultural input and distribution
sector, etc. PPPs and similar contractual arrangements were often entered into following the
presentation of a proposal to the Government by a private sector actor, such as the movement
of containers to Allada, and often did not follow competitive processes, optimize benefits to
the state, consider viable alternatives, nor consider potential contingent liabilities. As such,
the introduction of PPP legislation and a PPP unit is an important step in rationalizing
government involvement in PPPs and in maximizing both public and private benefits from
such arrangements and in protecting the public interest.
5.61  One critical measure undertaken in 2012 and supported as a prior action was the
creation of the Single Window for Business Formation (GUFE). The intent is to make
business registration easier, faster and less costly. This is a one stop shop for business
licensing, single tax payer identification registration and all other formalities related to
starting a business. The center is also equipped to provide advice on the type of business
registration best suited to a company's needs and other technical advice. The GUFE will also
handle business dissolution and cessation of activities. Registering a business previously took
26 days in Benin according to the 2012 Doing Business Report. Following implementation of
the GUFE, business registration takes less than 24 hours, only 4 steps and costs US$40,
provided applications comply with formal requirements. Automation and computerization of
processes and procedures will eliminate the experiences of the past involving long delays, the
payment of bribes and overly-complicated procedures. This measure represents significant
progress.
5.62 In sum, as in other areas, new-found commitment and reform momentum is
being demonstrated. The PRSC-8, subsequent operations and related TA and ESW work
will build on this reform agenda by supporting not just the passage of associated reforms, but
their effective implementation as well.
5.63  Prior actions for PRSC-8 are as follows:
Created and made operational the Single Window for Business Formation (GUFE)
including the selection of a Managing Director.
Agricultural Diversification and Cotton Sector Reform
35


﻿5.64   The agricultural sector accounts for over 30 percent of GDP and nearly 70
percent of total employment in Benin. Yields of major crops, including cotton, have
remained persistently low over time. Overall agricultural growth is typically around 3
percent, though the SCRP 2011-2015 forecasts significantly improved growth in agriculture.
Agricultural production systems rely heavily on family labor, with limited use of improved
inputs, production methods and farm equipment. Access to financing is limited outside the
cotton system. As identified in the SCRP (2011-2015), the agricultural diversification strategy
in Benin has two major components: (i) strengthen food security by competitively producing
staple food products (cereals, roots, tubers, livestock) and import competing goods (rice and
fish) for domestic and regional markets; and (ii) increasing export diversity by increasing the
export volume of traditional but low volume exports, such as cashew, and by providing
targeted support to emerging high value exports, such as pineapple.
5.65   Cotton is Benin's largest official export, representing 25 to 40 percent of annual
exports and contributing to the livelihoods of 50 percent of the population. At 137,000 tons in
2010 and approximately 200,000 tons in 2011, production had fallen well off its recent high in
2004/05 of 417,000 tons and was near its lowest level in decades. This decline in cotton
production was the result of low world cotton prices over the late 2000s, difficulties in the
cotton supply input chain, and higher global food prices, which have encouraged a shift out of
cotton and into food crop production.
5.66   Cotton production in 2012/13 is expected to rebound to over 300,000 tons and
potentially as high as 350,000 tons. This follows significant upheaval in the sector during
2012. Following cotton sector reforms and the sale of the national cotton company's
industrial assets in 2008, the organizational structure of the cotton sector had returned to a
monopolistic structure, albeit now a private monopoly, with one large private group, owned
by the Talon Group (as was Benin Control at the port), controlling a very large part of the
input supply and ginning activities through distribution arrangements with the AIC
(Association Interprofessionelle de Coton).  Following the dispute, the Government
dismantled the AIC and the Government assumed responsibility for the procurement,
distribution and sale of inputs (fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides). This caused great
uncertainty at the beginning of the 2012 cotton planting season and initially jeopardized the
2012/13 season.
5.67   Despite initial concerns around    government capacity    to  assume these
responsibilities and a late start, the Government did a commendable job of procuring
and distributing inputs. As a result of government efforts and producer response, the
2012/13 season will be the most productive in several years. Discussions around sector
governance and structure are ongoing, with Bank assistance and involvement, and a new
approach to cotton sector organization will be decided upon in the coming months. Bank staff
have been integrally involved in assisting the authorities in weighing policy options and have
participated in a Cabinet meeting on the issue. As in the case of the port, development of a
programmatic PRSC series will await greater clarity on developments in the cotton sector and
will be appropriately supported once the reform path becomes clearer.
36


﻿6. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION
A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT
6.1    PRSC-8 is expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction. Strengthening
public sector management, through efforts to improve public financial management and
increase budget execution rates in key ministries such as health and education, is expected to
enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of public resources, not only in the direct pursuit of
increasing economic performance and economic diversification, but also in the delivery of
social services. It should be noted that equitable development is an explicit objective of the
SCRP, and PRSC-8 will support this objective through improved public sector management.
Improving access to and the quality of services delivered to the poor can only be achieved
through improved performance of relevant ministries, improved efficiency of resource
utilization and improved priority expenditure identification and tracking.
6.2   Improved delivery of essential services to the population, including to the poorest,
can best be achieved within a DPO operation by addressing important constraints to service
delivery across the government as a whole, given the current state of public financial
management, public sector capacity and civil service performance. While direct sectoral
interventions and investments in areas such as health, education, community development,
etc. have proven effective in Benin, a common constraint across all sectors that limits the
effectiveness of these investments is limited government capacity at the central, budgetary,
procurement and expenditure process levels. Many constraints are shared across Ministries
and require central solutions; hence the focus in this operation on addressing central
governance issues and not extending support to reforms in specific sectors.
6.3   Focusing on improving public sector efficiency and effectiveness will free up
resources for pro-poor and poverty reducing expenditures and will strengthen service
delivery. Savings from such gains can be directed toward priority social expenditures or
investment spending in pursuit of increased growth and poverty reduction. Supporting
improvements in the procurement process is a prime example, where improved bidding
processes, increased transparency and reduced opportunities for rent seeking will encourage
more effective and efficient government expenditures. This should have a direct impact on
improved service delivery to the population, including to the poor, but also an indirect benefit
in freeing up scarce resources for broadening the scope and coverage of services.
6.4   Components are also included to improve the business environment, thus helping
to promote investment and growth. Initial results from the poverty assessment exercise note
the strong link between unemployment, underemployment and poverty. Gender-specific
results and recommendations from the poverty assessment will also help inform the policy
dialogue process with the Government and the identification of prior actions and triggers to
better incorporate gender considerations in future operations. Thus, support for accelerating
economic growth and private investment, including through an improved business enabling
environment, enhanced private sector competitiveness and a more diversified and resilient
economy support employment creation and poverty reduction.
B. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
6.5   The activities supported by the proposed operation are unlikely to have
significant negative environmental effects. All of the actions supported throughout the
operation are policy oriented and none support direct investments, involve civil works or
37


﻿involve policy actions that would lead to significant environmental impact. This is particularly
true in the area of primary focus - public financial management and public administration.
6.6    The Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development (MEHUD), adopted a
Medium-Term Strategic Plan in 2002 that defined the main environmental objectives. The
Ministry updated the environmental strategy in 2009, and revised the Medium-Term Strategic
Plan regarding the protection of natural resources. The latter was formerly dealt with under
the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture. One of the major strategic pillars consists of
optimizing the links between environmental protection and poverty reduction through
activities addressing major threats to the environment and to people's health. This move to a
"greener" economic developmental path is reflected in the SCRP and direct links are made
between environment/natural resource management and the quality of life. The SCRP also
includes improved management of natural disasters and climate change adaptation as
important areas of focus.
6.7    Benin  has an    environmental impact assessment process requiring       that
environmental impact assessments be carried out for all investment activities likely to have an
impact on the environment. The assessment process allows for systematic cross sectoral
coordination and planning and the process seeks an overall optimization of social,
environmental and economic interests in the establishment of mitigation plans.
Unfortunately, the enforcement of EA regulations in the public sector is increasingly difficult
due to inadequate allocation of staff time and budget to finance EA work and mitigation
plans. The sequencing of investments and the delay with which the budget appropriations
tend to be secured by ministries makes it difficult to complete environmental assessments of
some investments that would normally be subjected to the EA regulations. Although
environmental cells exist in many line ministries, they are not well funded, and therefore lack
the resources necessary to do due diligence in the area of environmental impact assessment.
At the decentralized level, environmental competence is limited. Recently, there has been
increased training at the local/commune levels on EIA procedures.
6.8    The Benin Environmental Agency (ABE) has overall responsibility for ensuring that
strategic investment environmental assessments are carried out for all projects in accordance
with national standards. Environmental compliance certificates and environmental
management plans for environmental impact assessments are designed by ABE, ratified by
the MEHUD and then sent to sector focal points, and ABE puts them in an online
environmental database. Sector and regional focal points send monthly reports to ABE. ABE
analyzes these monthly reports and sets up quarterly meetings with sector and regional focal
points in order to organize the national report on environmental monitoring. Additionally,
ABE involves civil society and affected populations in environmental hearings. However, in
practice these procedures suffer from several institutional weaknesses. ABE faces financial
problems due to reduced funding. The lack of adequate funding has translated into reduced
operations and enforcement capabilities and has prevented the recruitment of new staff to
replace those that have left.
6.9    Under the Bank's Country Environmental Assessment, two important studies
were completed: (i) an Institutional Analysis; and (ii) a Public Environmental Expenditures
Review (PEER). Both studies assisted the Government in better understanding environmental
challenges in order to strengthen sustainable management of the environment and natural
resources. The institutional analysis noted several accomplishments: (a) a sophisticated
institutional arrangement, with the ABE as an environmental player of international
reputation, a National Sustainable Development Commission that, along with the creation of
38


﻿small environmental units at sectoral and local level, forms part of a sophisticated conception
of cross-sectoral coordination; (b) a viable environmental assessment mechanism; and (c) a
Parliamentary Commission for Sustainable Development. But there were also institutional
weaknesses to be addressed by: (i) improvement of the internal organization and functioning
of the MEHUD; (ii) better integration of the environmental function within sector Ministries;
(iii) intensification of the environment function in the Communes; (iv) improvement of the
efficiency and impact of environmental assessment; and (v) intensification of the partnership
between MEHUD, sector Ministries, the private sector and civil society. The PEER
recommended: (i) improvement of MEHUD's budget management; (ii) reinforcement of
donor coordination and aid harmonization; (iii) additional resources to be allocated to
MEHUD's recurrent budget allocations for the purpose of surveillance and control on the
ground and support to the communes; and (vi) improvement of revenue efficiency, collection
and creation of a fiscal database for forestry revenues.
6.10  In sum, the primary and necessary institutional structure is broadly in place for
effective environmental protection, management and assessment, though it suffers from many
weaknesses common to public sector institutions in Benin. As such, strengthening public
financial management and public administration through this PRSC should contribute to
strengthened environmental stewardship as well.
C. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.11  The Ministry of Economy and Finance will be responsible for overall
implementation of the proposed PRSC. The Committee for Economic and Structural
Programs (CSPEF) in the Ministry will lead the Government's technical team with
representatives from sectoral ministries as required.
6.12  The Government has agreed that monitoring and evaluation of the SCRP (2011-2015),
PRSCs, and other donor budget support operations, will be based on the sectoral performance
indicators and targets set out in sector program budgets. These indicators are consolidated in
the results matrix as agreed to between the Government and donor partners providing budget
support and are closely aligned with the results matrix associated with the SCRP (2011-2015).
Sector ministries collect data and transmit it to CSPEF, who compiles the data and produces
periodic reports. This framework, which builds on the mechanism put in place for the first
PRSP, establishes a system that supports coordination of actions and synergy between the
stakeholders involved in the monitoring and evaluation of the SCRP and the provision of
donor support. The donor community and the Government have agreed to an annual review
process which includes quarterly review meetings, as needed meetings on special themes, a
mid-year review of progress to date on the previous year's aide-memoire, individual sectoral
reviews, and culminates in a joint donor-Government review mission and the preparation of a
new aide-memoire for the coming year. The Bank is fully involved in this process,
participating in and contributing to all facets of the process.
6.13  While the review process is well-developed, well-coordinated, and involves a broad
cross-section of government actors, including senior political levels, some problems remain to
be addressed to further improve the system. One such issue is that while the overall quality of
data has improved and the various sector ministries do a relatively good job of reporting
results, discussions of the APR show that donors still broadly question reported results on
poverty. Sector results do not map directly to poverty outcomes and poverty measurement
and analysis received little government attention prior to 2010. Incorporation of results
emanating from the recently completed household survey (2010) as well as results from the
39


﻿poverty and gender assessment should contribute to improvement in this area. There is also a
need for greater integration of results and recommendations emanating from the review
process in budget planning and preparation. Adjustments in the timing of the donor review
process should help align the results reporting process with budget planning. While some
weaknesses remain, the functioning and effectiveness of the existing institutional
arrangements for coordination, monitoring and evaluation have improved over previous PRSC
periods following the adoption by the Government of texts, agreements and protocols
clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the main institutions involved. Improvement in this
area, in conjunction with the broader donor community, will continue to be sought.
D. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS
6.14 The Government's policy framework for Budget Management was based on the
2005 CFAA update and the 2007 PEFA assessment. A PER was undertaken in 2010 and a
PEFA self-assessment update in 2012. The authorities are in the process of integrating these
findings into its policies and reforms. Following the CFAA recommendations, PRSC-3
included as a prior action the adoption of a decree regulating internal control, which
strengthened the Financial Inspection Department and organized the internal control
framework. The positive effect of this reform was noted in the 2007 PEFA diagnostic. The
Government also adopted an action plan for procurement reform based on the 1999 Country
Procurement Assessment Report. The plan is in line with: (i) WAEMU Procurement
Directives, adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2005 in the context of the Regional
Procurement Reform Program supported by IDA and other donors (AfDB, EU); and (ii) the
Baseline Indicators (BIs) developed and adopted by OECD/IDAC/WB.       The new
procurement code was approved by the Council of Ministers in late 2007, by the National
Assembly in early 2009, and the passage of enabling regulations to implement and render the
new Code effective were included as actions in PRSG-7. Further procurement actions are
included in PRSC-8.
6.15  Progress has been made on the use of exceptional budget execution procedures
and such use will be reduced further. A remaining issue is the delay in the production of the
Government's annual accounts by the Treasury and budget audit reports by the Chamber of
Accounts. The Treasury issue is being addressed with the recruitment of additional staff and
the decentralization of the accounting software ASTER. In February 2009, all participants in
the expenditure chain, including audits, met to agree on improvements in functioning and
timeliness. As noted earlier, a plan to catch up on the external audit schedule has been
implemented.
6.16  PRSC-8 builds on the achievements under the previous PRSCs by supporting
several reforms in public financial management including planning, budgeting,
procurement, auditing and reporting. Overall, the Bank has judged implementation
performance of the public financial management reform program to date and Government's
commitment to its improvement as satisfactory. It further finds the fiduciary environment to
be adequate to proceed with the proposed operation. The Government's budget is published
and is publically available on the Ministry of Finance's website. This operation also supports
the publication of quarterly budget execution reports that are likewise available on the
Ministry's website.
6.17  The Central Bank of the West African States (BCEAO) is the common central bank of
the West African countries, including Benin, and it continues to improve its governance
structure. The latest IMF safeguards assessment was undertaken in March 2010 and revealed
40


﻿that the institution continues to have adequate controls in place at the operational level.
However, the IMF noted that the overall governance framework should nonetheless be
strengthened by the addition of an audit committee to ensure that the Board of Directors
exercises appropriate oversight over the control structure, including the audit mechanism and
financial statements. The upcoming implementation of the institutional reform of the West
African Monetary Union (WAMU) and the BCEAO should help improve this situation. In
addition, the assessment noted that efforts to fully implement International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted internationally by other central banks should be
further pursued. In 2009, the Benin treasury account with the BCEAO that receives and
transfers budget support from donors was audited and was found to be in order.
E. DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
6.18  The proposed operation would consist of a single tranche of SDR 19.9 million (US$30
million equivalent) to be available upon effectiveness and disbursed on the basis of a
withdrawal application. The recipient is the Republic of Benin, represented by the Ministry
of Economy and Finance. The proposed operation would follow IDA's disbursement
procedures for development policy operations and would not be linked to specific purchases.
Credit proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the development
policy program.
6.19  Once the financing becomes effective, and provided IDA is satisfied with the program
being carried out by the Recipient and with the appropriateness of the Recipient's
macroeconomic policy framework, the proceeds will be deposited by IDA into an account at
the Central Bank which forms part of the country's foreign exchange reserves. The recipient
shall ensure that upon the deposit of the credit into said account, an equivalent local currency
amount is credited in the recipient's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
Association. Based on previous experience, the execution of such transaction from the
Central Bank to the Treasury (Ministry of Economy and Finance) does not require more than
four days. The recipient will report to the Association on the amounts deposited in the foreign
currency account and credit in local currency to the budget management system within 30
days of deposit. The equivalent amount in CFAF reported in the budgetary system will be
based on the market rate at the date of the transfer. The recipient will promptly notify the
Association by fax or email that such transfer has taken place, and that proceeds have been
credited in a manner satisfactory to the Association. The proceeds of the credit will not be
used to finance expenditures excluded under the Agreement. If the proceeds of the credit are
used for excluded expenditures as defined in the Financing Agreement, IDA will require,
promptly upon notice from IDA, the Recipient to refund an amount equal to the amount of
said payment to IDA. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
cancelled. The closing date of the operation will be December 31, 2013. The deposit
accounts could be audited on terms of reference acceptable to IDA should the Association in
its discretion determine such an audit was necessary.
F. RISKS AND MITIGATION
6.20  Several risks could jeopardize attainment of the objectives and expected
outcomes of this operation. These include: (i) downside risks to the macroeconomic
framework stemming primarily from a vulnerability to exogenous shocks; (ii) political
economy developments and weakening consensus for structural reforms; and (iii) weak
implementation capacity.
41


﻿6.21  Downside risks to the macroeconomic framework remain and stem mainly from
a possible recurrence of macroeconomic slippages. Recent IMF reviews found Benin's
performance under the program mixed in some areas. Lower than expected revenue resulted
in missed performance criteria and required significant expenditure reductions, particularly in
the public investment program. While the Government has introduced several measures to
reverse this revenue under-performance and to protect priority spending programs, risks
remain. This is particularly the case in light of recent resistance to port and customs reforms,
which negatively affected revenues in the latter part of 2011, and ongoing contractual
difficulties around implementation of the PVI program. On the expenditure side, the ability to
manage recent wage increases within current wage bill ceilings remains a key risk. The
Government is fully aware of the large negative implications of any increase in the wage bill
and the Government appears committed to aligning the wage bill with realized revenues.
Slippage on this front however, is possible.
6.22  Benin's economic performance also remains vulnerable to external shocks. The
reduction is gasoline/diesel subsidies in Nigeria and the significant impact this had in Benin is
a case in point. Furthermore, Benin is particularly vulnerable to reduced demand in Nigeria
for re-exports from Benin, primarily stemming from trade reform in Nigeria. Finally, Benin
remains vulnerable to fluctuations in the world price for cotton, and to the appreciation of the
Euro to which the CFAF is pegged. Other possible shocks include terms of trade volatility
and inclement weather/flooding and its effect on agricultural production and infrastructure.
6.23  These macroeconomic risks are mitigated to some extent by specific measures
supported by the proposed operation and planned investment operations in the energy sector,
and agriculture sector, particularly efforts to diversify agricultural production, and most
directly through actions proposed in this operation to further strengthen public financial
management within a sound macroeconomic framework. Technical assistance in wage bill
management through harmonization of the payroll system with human resource management
systems, as provided under PRSG-7 and continuing under PRSC-8, should serve to reduce
wage bill pressures and risk. AAA work on broadening the tax base is expected to help on the
revenue side, both in terms of increased revenues and reduced volatility. Also, the IMF and
the Bank are working closely together in Benin and will continue to closely monitor the
Government's macroeconomic performance. Furthermore, the overall country dialogue
process among the donors, multilateral institutions and the Government allows for some
budget flexibility to address crisis-related expenses within the context of a prudently managed
budget that supports priority growth and poverty reduction programs.
6.24  Political economy developments and potentially a weakening consensus for
structural reforms pose risks as has been experienced at the port and in the cotton
sector. While significant resistance to reforms exists, particularly around Port reforms, the
Government is in a strong position to push back. With a working coalition in the National
Assembly and a new mandate the Government has a viable window of opportunity to proceed
aggressively with reforms. Nonetheless, to help mitigate this risk, IDA is supporting
engagement with stakeholders, including the National Assembly and sectoral ministries, to
build consensus around key reforms as well as leverage the dissemination of AAA and ESW
work as a means to increase knowledge on the broad advantages to be gained through
structural reforms of national importance. This leveraging of AAA and ESW will extend to
communications efforts to better disseminate findings among the general public and civil
society in order to build public support for important reforms. Such AAA and ESW work will
increasingly focus on the nexus between necessary reforms, i.e., analytical work in areas
where greater reform efforts are needed and where potential impact is greatest, and those
42


﻿areas where greater public support for reforms is needed through increased awareness and
improved public understanding of the reform agenda. While changing this political economy
dynamic is admittedly a long term process, this operation seeks to support such a change and
hence to reduce future political economy risks through efforts to support improved
governance, including in the areas of anti-corruption, PPP legislation, open data, strengthened
procurement processes, an improved business environment, etc.    These measures can
introduce into Benin's political economy environment a sense of greater transparency,
increased accountability, the establishment of a more level playing field, and the provision of
greater opportunities for more of Benin's citizens.
6.25   Furthermore, PRSC-8 is proceeding as a stand-alone operation largely in response to
these political risks and the risks around maintaining a consensus for reform. Commitment to
and development of a programmatic series will await greater clarity on the political consensus
around cotton and port reforms and greater clarity on the reform path in these important
sectors. Nonetheless, technical discussions and dialogue with the Government in these areas
are ongoing in order to assist in the development of viable reform paths for the port and the
cotton sector and eventual support to these important sectors in future operations.
6.26   Finally, there exist significant capacity and public administration weaknesses
that hinder the implementation of reforms. Examples include: (i) low salaries and weak
incentives within the public administration, which limits government ability to retain and
recruit skilled staff in key functions such as financial management and procurement; (ii) the
complexity of the administration and the divisions in some Ministries, which do not favor the
implementation of sector strategies and comprehensive reforms; and (iii) the struggle around
politically sensitive reforms, like decentralization and public service reform, and the attendant
difficulties of implementing measures that could improve the local delivery of programs and
public services. To help mitigate this risk this operation focuses on fewer areas and supports
deeper reform efforts. The intention is to ensure more effective implementation. In addition,
the Bank continues to provide AAA, ESW and TA products in difficult areas such as around
port and customs issues, civil service reform and tax policy advice in order to strengthen
Benin's reform plans and implementation efforts.
6.27   Staffs assessment is that the potential benefits of the proposed operation
outweigh the residual risks and warrant IDA's assistance in implementing the critical
reforms and policy actions supported by this operation in a coordinated fashion with other
donors, while supporting risk mitigation actions to maximize the sustainability of the reform
agenda.
43


﻿Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN               Cotonou,te o    c3    -/o 43
Fratenit ,7ustice-TrmiI
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE
ET DES FINANCES                            OEDQ lMr4 AR  23
CELLULE DE SUIVI DES PROGRAMMES
ECONOMIQUES ET FINANCIERs           BORDEREAU          b ENVOI
Le Secrétaire Technique
N/Réf :C.  /213MEF/Dc/C5PEF/5P.-        Monsieur le Représentant Résident de
la Banque Mondiale
(Att : Monsieur Ibrahim AMADOU)
Cotonou, BENIN
Nombre
de Pièces                       Libellé                        Observations
Transmission des documents relatifs au Huituième Crédit Pour
d'Appui à la Stratégie de Réduction de la Pauvreté exploitation
(PRSC-8).-                                        dans le cadre de
l'instruction du
3       - Lettre de Politique de Développement            PRSC 8.
- Journal Officiel Numéro Spécial, N°05 Bis du 06 Mars
2013
. Journal Officiel Numéro Spécial, N'05 Ter du 06 Mars
2013.
med Babatundé GADO
44


﻿REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
Fraternité-Justice-Travail
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
LETTRE DE POLITIQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Mars 2013
45


﻿INTRODUCTION
1.    La présente lettre de politique de développement décrit le programme de réformes que le
gouvernement a prévu dans le cadre du huitième Crédit d'Appui à la Réduction de la Pauvreté
(Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 8)) de la Banque Mondiale pour l'année 2012, afin de
soutenir la mise en oeuvre de la Stratégie de Croissance pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté du
Bénin.
2.    Les principales mesures du programme ambitionnent (i) d'accroître l'efficacité et
l'impact des dépenses publiques en vue de l'amélioration des services publics pour les plus
pauvres et (ii) d'accélérer les conditions d'une croissance soutenue pour une réduction
significative de la pauvreté.
3.    Le présent document s'articule autour des points ci-après : (i) Contexte et évolution
récente ; (i) Politique de réformes et (iii) Dispositif de coordination, de suivi de la mise en
uvre des politiques de réformes.
I-    Contexte et évolution récente de l'économie
4.    Dans le cadre de sa politique de lutte pour la réduction de la pauvreté, le Gouvernement a
adopté, en mars 2011, à la suite d'un processus participatif, une nouvelle génération de stratégie
de croissance pour la réduction de la pauvreté, la SCRP 2011-2015 dont les cinq axes prioritaires
sont : (i) l'accélération durable de la croissance et de la transformation de l'économie ; (ii) le
développement des infrastructures ; (iii) le renforcement du capital humain ; (iv) la promotion de
la bonne gouvemance ; et (v) le développement équilibré et durable de l'espace national. Cette
stratégie opérationnalise les Orientations Stratégiques de Développement (OSD) du
Gouvernement, elles-mêmes, basées sur la vision de long terme décrite dans les « Etudes
Nationales de Perspectives à Long Terme (ENPLT), "Bénin-Alafia 2025" ». Pour la mise en
uvre réussie de cette stratégie, à l'instar du programme de réformes mise en ouvre dans le
cadre du PRSC7, le Gouvernement entend poursuivre les réformes cruciales retenues au titre du
PRSC8. Ces réformes concernent des domaines où des progrès sont nécessaires pour atteindre
les objectifs visés par la stratégie. Il s'agit (i) de la Gestion des finances publiques, (ii) de la
Gouvernance du secteur public et (iii) le renforcement du climat des affaires.
5.    La croissance de l'économie nationale s'est poursuivie en 2011 à un rythme plus faible
que prévu, le taux de croissance du PIB réel s'établissant à 3,5%, après 2,6% en 2010. Cette
performance économique s'est réalisée dans un contexte de maîtrise des prix à la consommation,
le taux d'inflation ressortant à 2,7%, en-dessous de la nonme communautaire de 3%. Pour les
années 2012 et 2013, la croissance devrait continuer de s'accélérer, Les prévisions prévoient une
montée de taux d'inflation à près de 7,0% en 2012 en liaison avec la suppression partielle des
subventions appliquées au carburant frauduleusement importé du Nigéria, avant une descente en
dessous du seuil de 3,0% prévu dans le cadre de la surveillance multilatérale au sein de
l'UEMOA en 2013.
6.    Le programme économique et financier conclu avec le FMI continue de s'exécuter de
manière satisfaisante. Tous les critères de réalisation ont été ainsi respectés en 2011. Il en est de
même pour les critères à fin mars 2012 et les objectifs indicatifs à fin juin 2012. En complément,
les dispositions ont été prises (notamment un renforcement du suivi) pour rendre conforme
46


﻿l'exécution des dépenses sociales prioritaires au profil retenu dans le programme budgétaire
associé au Programme économique et financier.
il-          Politiques de réformes
7.   Les réformes retenues dans le programme associé au PRSC 8 pour lequel le gouvernement
sollicite l'appui de la Banque Mondiale portent sur : (i) la Gestion des finances publiques (y
compris la passation des marchés publics), (il) la Gouvernance du secteur public et (iii) le
renforcement du climat des affaires.
Gestion des finances publiques
8.    La qualité de la gouvernance financière constitue un facteur essentiel pour le succès des
stratégies et des actions du Gouvernement. C'est pourquoi, le Gouvernement a fait du
renforcement de la qualité de la gestion des finances publiques un domaine d'intervention
prioritaire de la Stratégie de Croissance pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté 2011-2015. A ce titre,
il entend poursuivre des progrès en matière de transparence de l'information financière de l'Etat
et de gestion des marchés publics.
9.    Conformément à la directive n°01/2009/CM/UEMOA portant Code de transparence dans
la gestion des finances publiques au sein de l'UEMOA, après la publication du budget 2012 voté
par l'Assemblée Nationale sur le site web du Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances, des
dispositions ont été prises pour une publication régulière des rapports trimestriels liés à son
exécution. En outre, il a été élaboré une stratégie globale de mise en ouvre des réformes des
finances publiques induites par la transposition par les directives de l'UEMOA en matière de
finances publiques ainsi que les modes opératoires associés. Ces directives portent sur: les lois
de finances, le règlement général sur la comptabilité publique, le plan comptable de l'Etat, la
nomenclature budgétaire de l'Etat, le tableau des opérations financières de l'Etat et le plan
comptable et nomenclature budgétaire des collectivités locales. Par ailleurs, les comptes
administratifs des communes pour les années 2010 et 2011 ont été finalisés. De plus, le
Gouvernement entend veiller à la mise en uvre du système de reporting de la CONAFIL.
10.  S'agissant de la Gestion des marchés publics, le Gouvernement poursuit la mise en uvre
du nouveau code des marchés publics et délégation de services publics. A cet égard, les
dispositions ont été prises en vue de (i) la création et la dotation en ressources humaines et
financières des organes de régulation, de contrôle et d'attribution des marchés publics et
leur opérationnalisation en ligne avec les directives de 'UEMOA, notamment l'Autorité de
Régulation des Marchés Publics, la Direction Nationale de Contrôle des Marchés Publics,
les Commissions de Passation des Marchés Publics et les Cellules de Contrôle des Marchés
Publics et (il) de la nomination des membres du Conseil National de Régulation des
Marchés Publics et du décret portant nomination du Secrétaire Permanent de l'Autorité
des Marchés Publics. De même, l'adoption du Décret spécifiant les délais par rapport aux
procédures de contrôle et d'attribution des marchés publics et celle des Dossiers d'Appel
d'Offres et Contrats types des marchés publics permettront l'accélération et le renforcement
de la transparence du processus de passation des marchés publics. Par ailleurs, l'audit annuel des
marchés publics permettra de suivre régulièrement la performance et la conformité des pratiques
du système de passation des marchés publics au regard de la réglementation en vigueur. A cet
47


﻿effet, un cabinet a été sélectionné pour la réalisation des audits 2008, 2009 et 2010 des marchés
publics.
Gouvernance du secteur public
11. Conscient que la bonne gouvemance du secteur public est indispensablepour bâtir un
environnement favorable aux affaires et à l'accélération de la croissance économique, le
Gouvernement l'a retenue au rang des domaines d'intervention prioritaires dans la Stratégie de
Croissance pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté, notamment à travers la promotion d'une culture
de transparence dans la gestion des affaires et l'amélioration de la gouvernance de
l'information statistique.
12. Au titre du renforcement de la promotion d'une culture de transparence dans la gestion
des affaires, les actions envisagées sont relatives à la mise en place des conditions nécessaires
relatives à l'application de la loi sur la corruption et les infractions connexes. Il s'agit notamment
de l'adoption (i) du décret déterminant la liste des hautes personnalités de PEtat et des
hauts fonctionnaires ont l'obligation de déclarer leur patrimoine, (il) du décret
déterminant les conditions et les modalités de l'enquête de moralité et de fonctionnement
de l'organe, (iii) dudécret fixant les conditions de dérogations à l'interdiction d'exercer une
activité lucrative et (iv) du décret fixant les conditions de la protection spéciale d'Etat
accordée aux dénonciateurs, témoins, experts et victimes.
13. En outre, le répertoire des hauts emplois techniques de la fonction publique a été finalisé
afin d'éviter la politisation de l'administration publique, de promouvoir l'excellence et de
favoriser un processus compétitif et transparent de nomination a ces postes. De même, dans le
cadre de la mise en place du Système Intégré de Gestion des Ressources Humaines, il est prévu
de collecter, assembler, publier et rendre disponibles toute la législation actuelle relative à la
Fonction Publique.
14.  En matière de gouvernance de l'information statistique, il est prévu l'adoption d'un
arrêté établissant une initiative d'ouverture des données ("open data") pour les statistiques
publiques, y compris celles générées par PINSAE à travers ses enquêtes, activités et
opérations diverses. Celle-ci permettra de faciliter la transmission de l'information au public.
Renforcement du climat des affaires
15. Par ailleurs, le Gouvernement entend créer les conditions nécessaires à l'amélioration du
climat des affaires afin de promouvoir le secteur privé, créateur de richesses et d'emplois, Pour
cela, il envisage adopter un plan d'action pour l'amélioration du climat des affaires et favorisant
un environnement propice au secteur privé. De plus, il procédera à la création et à
l'opérationnalisation du Guichet Unique de Formalisation des Entreprises (GUFE)
incluant l'installation de son Directeur Général.
Il[-  Dispositif de coordination, de suivi de la mise en ouvre des politiques de réformes
16.  Le présent programme sera exécuté sous la supervision du Ministre de l'Economie et des
Finances, à travers la Cellule de Suivi des Programmes Economiques (CSPEF), en collaboration
48


﻿étroite avec les Ministres sectoriels et autres structures concernés par les domaines de
concentration du programme. La Banque Mondiale effectuera également des revues du
programme. Il sera maintenu un dialogue régulier avec la Banque dans le cadre du suivi de la
mise en uvre des actions prévues. Par la présente, le Gouvernement s'engage à prendre toutes
les dispositions nécessaires pour la mise en uvre des mesures et actions ci-dessus retenues et
réitère sa demande auprès de la B ueMondiale pour la mis place de l'appui financier
prévu dans ce cadre.
Jons  G
(Min tremdel'               n
49


﻿Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
March 2013
50


﻿INTRODUCTION
1.    This letter of development policy outlines the reform program that the Government has
included under the World Bank's Eighth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 8) for 2012,
with the aim of supporting the implementation of Benin's Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy.
2.    The program's key actions seek to (i) enhance the effectiveness and impact of public
expenditure with a view to improving public services for the poorest; and (ii) accelerate efforts to
foster the conditions for sustained growth in order to significantly reduce poverty.
3.    This letter of development policy is organized around the following points: (i) context
and recent developments; (ii) reform policy; and (iii) the mechanism for coordinating and
monitoring implementation of the reform policies.
I.    Context and recent economic developments
4.    As part of its policy to reduce poverty, in March 2011, following a participatory process,
the Government adopted a new generation growth and poverty reduction strategy (GPRS 2011-
2015), which has the following five priority areas: (i) accelerated sustainable growth and
economic transformation; (ii) infrastructure development; (iii) strengthening of human capital;
(iv) the promotion of good governance; and (v) balanced and sustainable national development.
This strategy operationalizes the Government's Strategic Development Guidelines (SDG), which
are based on the long-term vision outlined in the "National Long-Term Prospective Studies
(NLTPS) - Benin Alafia 2025." To ensure the successful implementation of this strategy, the
Government, as in the case of the reform program implemented under PRSC 7, intends to
continue implementing the critical reforms included under PRSC 8. These reforms relate to areas
where progress is vital for the achievement of the objectives outlined in the strategy, including:
(i) public financial management; (ii) public sector governance; and (iii) strengthening the
business environment.
5.    Benin's economy continued to grow in 2011, albeit at a slower than expected pace, with
real GDP growth of 3.5 percent, up from 2.6 percent in 2010. This economic performance was
achieved in a context of controlled consumer prices leading to an inflation rate of 2.7 percent,
which is below the WAEMU standard of 3 percent. The projected growth rates for 2012 and
2013 are 3.5 percent and 3.8 percent, respectively. Projections call for an increase in inflation of
close to 7 percent in 2012 in connection with the partial removal of subsidies on illegally
imported fuel from Nigeria, before this rate falls below the 3 percent ceiling projected for
WAEMU multilateral surveillance in 2013.
6.    The economic and financial program concluded with the IMF is being satisfactorily
implemented. The performance criteria for 2011 and end-March 2012, as well as the indicative
objectives for end-June 2012, were all met. Steps were also taken (improved monitoring, in
particular) to align the execution of priority social expenditure with the profile in the budget
program for the economic and financial program.
51


﻿II.   Reform Policies
7.    The reforms contained in the PRSC 8 program for which the Government is requesting
World Bank support relate to: (i) public financial management; (ii) public sector governance; and
(iii) strengthening the business environment.
Public Financial Management
8.    The quality of financial governance is critical to the success of the Government's
strategies and actions. For this reason, the Government made improving the quality of public
financial management a priority action area of the 2011-2015 Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy. To that end, the Government intends to build on progress made in the areas of
transparency in government financial reporting and public procurement management.
9.    In accordance with Directive No. 01/2009/CM/UEMOA on the Code for transparency in
public financial management within WAEMU, subsequent to the publication on the Ministry of
Economy and Finance's website of the 2012 budget passed by the National Assembly, steps
were taken to ensure the regular publication of quarterly reports relating to its execution. A
comprehensive strategy for implementing public financial reforms necessitated by the
incorporation of WAEMU directives on public finance and the related operating procedures were
also developed. These directives cover budget laws, general regulations on public accounting,
the government chart of accounts, government budget classification, the government flow of
funds table, and the chart of accounts and budget classification for local governments. In
addition, the administrative accounts for the communes for 2010 and 2011 were finalized. The
Government also intends to oversee implementation of CONAFIL's reporting system.
10.   With respect to public procurement management, the Government is proceeding with the
implementation of the new code on procurement and outsourcing of public services. In this
regard, measures were adopted with a view to (i) establishing and providing human and financial
resources for entities responsible for regulating, overseeing, and awarding public contracts and
ensuring their operationalization in line with WAEMU directives, particularly the Public
Procurement Regulatory Authority, the Public Procurement Oversight Department, the Public
Procurement Commissions, and the Public Procurement Oversight Units; and (ii) appointing the
members of the National Procurement Regulatory Council and the decree on the appointment of
the permanent secretary of the Public Procurement Authority. Similarly, the adoption of the
decree specifying the timeframes for oversight and public procurement procedures as well as for
Bidding Documents and Standard Procurement Contracts will scale up and strengthen
transparency in the public procurement process. The annual public procurement audit will
facilitate regular monitoring of performance and compliance of public procurement practices
with the regulations in force. To that end, a firm has been selected to conduct audits of public
contracts for 2008, 2009, and 2010.
Public Sector Governance
10.   The Government, mindful of the critical role that good public sector governance plays in
creating an environment conducive to business and accelerated economic growth, included this
issue in the list of priority action areas in the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy, in
52


﻿particular through the promotion of a culture of transparency in business management and
improved governance of statistics.
12.   Proposed actions to strengthen the promotion of a culture of transparency in business
management relate to the creation of the necessary conditions for the application of the law on
corruption and related offenses. These actions include the adoption of (i) the decree identifying
the list of high-ranking government officials and senior civil servants who are required to declare
their assets; (ii) the decree outlining the conditions and procedures for conducting background
checks and investigations into the entity's operations; and (iii) the decree establishing the
conditions for exceptions from the ban on engaging in lucrative business and the decree
establishing the conditions for special protection granted by the State to whistleblowers,
witnesses, experts, and victims.
13.   Furthermore, the directory of high-level technical positions in the civil service was
completed with a view to avoiding politicization of the public administration, promoting
excellence, and facilitating a competitive and transparent appointment process for these
positions. Similarly, as part of the efforts to establish the Integrated Human Resource
Management System, plans are in place to collect, collate, publish, and make available all current
legislation pertaining to the Civil Service.
14.   With respect to governance of statistics, there are plans to adopt an order establishing an
open data initiative for public statistics, including statistics generated by INSAE through its
surveys, activities, and various operations, which will facilitate data dissemination to the public.
Strengthening the Business Environment
15.   The Government also intends to create the conditions needed to improve the business
environment in order to promote the private sector, the creator of jobs and wealth. To that end,
the Government plans to adopt an action plan designed to improve the business environment and
foster an enabling private sector environment. It will also establish and operationalize the One-
Stop Shop for Business Registration Formalities (GUFE), and appoint its Director General.
III.   The mechanism for coordinating and monitoring implementation
of the reform policies
16.   The Minister of Economy and Finance will supervise execution of this program through
the Economic Program Monitoring Unit (Cellule de Suivi des Programmes Economiques
CSPEF), in close collaboration with the line ministries and other entities involved in the
program's areas of focus. The World Bank will also conduct program reviews. Regular dialogue
will be maintained with the World Bank to ensure monitoring of the implementation of the
proposed actions. The Government hereby undertakes to take all the necessary steps to
implement the aforementioned measures and actions, and reiterates its request to the World Bank
for the related financial support.
Jonas A. GBIAN
(Minister of Economy and Finance)
53


﻿Annex 2: Operation Policy Matrix
Prior Action                                   Indicator                       Historic         Baseline   Indicative target
2009        2010        2011           2013
Published, on an ongoing basis beginning with the first
quarter of 2012, quarterly budget execution reports, and  Publication of quarterly budget execution  Not  Not        Not     Published within 3
made such reports available to the public, including by  reports within 3 months of end of quarter  published  published  published  months
placing the reports on the Ministry of Finance's public
website.
Created the public procurement agencies responsible
for the control and awarding of public procurement  Average public procurement delay (days):
contracts and render them operational in line with   Goods                                    54          88         64             <55
WAEMU directives, specifically, (i) the Regulatory   Services                                 62          80         71             <65
Authority for procurement, (ii) National Directorate of  Public works                         92          91         59             <75
Public Procurement Control and Monitoring, (iii) line
ministry procurement units.                       Average payment delay (days)                19.5       17.6         15            <15
Adopted a decree specifying the timelines applicable to  Budget execution rates - current
the control procedures and awarding of public      expenditures (% excluding salaries):
procurement contracts.                               Ministry of Health                        67         71         86             >80
Ministry of Water and Energy             91          74         67             >80
Adopted standardized public bidding and contract     Ministry of Primary Education            34          60         86             >80
documents.                                           Ministry of Secondary Education          48          63         81             >80
Ministry of Agriculture                  56          43         54             >80
Adopted a decree nominating the members of the
National Public Procurement council (Conseil       Budget execution rates -- public investment
Nationale de R6gulation des March6s Publics) and the  (%):
decree nominating the permanent secretary of the public  Ministry of Health                   28          27         38             >60
procurement authority (Secr6taire Permanent de       Ministry of Water and Energy             29          87         48             >60
l'Authorit6 des March6s Publics).                    Ministry of Primary Education             11         61         69             >60
Ministry of Secondary Education          23          65         15             >60
Adopted the decrees related to the Anti-Corruption   Ministry of Agriculture                              20         24             >60
Law:
i.   Art. 3: the decree identifying those government  Budget execution rates -- priority social  Not     Not         75             >90
appointees, dignitaries and public servants subject  expenditures                      tracked     tracked
to asset disclosure and declaration;
ii.  Art. 8: the decree establishing the terms and
conditions of the National Anti-Corruption   Corruption Perceptions Index                2.8         3.0        3.6      Improvement in
Authority;                                             (rank)                           (110)       (100)       (94)       Index, >3.6
iii.  Art. 10: Decree establishing and clarifying
exceptions to the prohibition of engaging in
54


﻿Prior Action                                   Indicator                        Historic          Baseline  Indicative target
2009        2010        2011           2013
gainful employment for public servants (conflict
of interest provisions);
iv.  Art. 31: Decree establishing the conditions for the
protection of whistleblowers, witnesses, experts
and victims.
Adopted an order relating to the establishment of an
Open Data Initiative for public statistics including those  Public access to INSAE data     No access   No access   No access    Data publicly
generated by INSAE through its various surveys,                                                                                    available
activities and operations.
Created and made operational the Single Window for  Time to start a business (days)             31         31          26            <20
Business Formation (GUFE) including the selection of
a Managing Director.
55


﻿Annex 3: IMF Relations Note
IMF Executive Board Completes Fourth Review Under ECF Arrangement
for Benin and Approves US$16.2 Million Disbursement
Press Release No. 12/425
November 9, 2012
The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) today completed the fourth review of the
Extended Credit Facility arrangement for Benin and approved the immediate disbursement of SDR 10.61
million (about US$16.2 million). The Executive Board also concluded the 2012 Article IV consultation with
Benin, which will be covered in a separate Public Information Notice in due course. Today's decision will
bring to SDR 53.06 million (about US$81.1 million) the total disbursed under the SDR 74.28 million
Arrangement, which was approved in June 2010 (see Press Release No. 10/243).
At the conclusion of the Executive Board's discussions, Min Zhu, Deputy Managing Director and Acting
Chair, made the following statement:
"Benin has made significant progress in consolidating macroeconomic stability under the Fund-supported
program. Economic growth is projected to maintain its pace, inflation remains in check, and the external
current account deficit has been broadly stable.
"All quantitative performance criteria and targets were met, but earlier reforms to the cotton sector and a key
component of the customs reform program have been suspended.
"Prudent fiscal policy has kept fiscal deficits at manageable levels and is projected to yield a basic primary
surplus in 2012. Public debt remains low at about 32 percent of GDP. However, looking forward, it will be
important to contain current expenditures, including on public sector wages, to provide space for
infrastructure spending and meet medium-term fiscal objectives. Broad based-customs reforms will
strengthen revenue collection. In this context, a well-designed reimplementation of the import-verification
program will be important going forward.
"Improvements to the business climate and public investment will be necessary to boost external
competitiveness and economic growth. Further progress on structural reforms, including implementation of
a revised framework for the cotton sector, remains thus critical."
IMF EXTERNAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
Public Affairs                 Media Relations
E-mail: publicaffairs(,imf.org  E-mail:media(&imf.org
Fax:   202-623-6220            Phone: 202-623-7100
56


﻿Annex 4: Country at a Glance
Benin at a glance                                                                                          3/4/13
Sub-
Key Development Indicators                                  Saharan      Low
Benin     Africa  income         Age distribution, 2010
F(201 1)                                                                                      Male           Female
Population, mid-year (millions)                        9.1      853      796        7579
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                        113     24,243    15,551      ee
Population growth (%)                                 2.8        2.5      2.1
Urban population (% of total population)               45        37       28        4549
30-34
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       7.1     1,004      421
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    780       1,176    528        15-19
GNI per capita (PPP, international $)                1,590     2,148     1,307        0-4    o
15 0 51'0
GDP growth (%)                                        3.5        4.8      5.9                 percent of total population
GDP per capita growth (%)                             0.7        2.3      3.7
(most recent estimate, 2005--2011)
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, %)        47        48                 Under-5mortality rate (per 1,000)
Poverty headcount ratio at $2.00 a day (PPP, %)        75        69        U.
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       56        54       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              68         76       70       200
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             20        22       23       1      [a
140    I-
Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)          54         71      69       120
Adult literacy, female (% of ages 15 and older)        29        54       54       100
Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)       117        95       101       40
Gross primary enrollment, female (% of age group)     117        95       101       40
20
Access to an improved water source (% of population)   75         61      65        20     1     1w5   2w0   20
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)  13    31       37
Net Aid Flows                              1980     1990      2000      2011
(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                     88       267       243       691       Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top 3 donors (in 2010):
European Union Institutions                 14       44          3      123      10
United States                                1        5         30       99
France                                      17       67        74        49
6
Aid (% of GNI)                               6.3      13.9      10.4     10.6      4
Aid per capita (US$)                         24        56        37       78       2
Long-Term Economic Trends                                                         -2
95            05
Consumer prices (annual % change)             ..       1.1       4.2      2.8
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)     10.2      2.2        4.5      2.4
Exchange rate (annual average, local per US$)  211.3  272.3    712.0    471.9
Terms of trade index (2000 = 100)                      ..        100      112
1980-90 1990-2000    2000-11
(average annual growth %)
Population, mid-year (millions)              3.6      4.8        6.5      9.1             2.8       3.1       3.0
GDP (US$ millions)                         1,405     1,960     2,359    7,295             2.7       4.6       3.8
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 35.4     34.7       34.9     32.4             5.2       5.5       3.4
Industry                                    12.3     12.5       12.9     13.2            3.4        3.9       3.2
Manufacturing                              8.0       7.4       8.2       7.7            5.1        5.6       2.0
Services                                    52.3     52.9       52.2     54.3             1.2       4.0       4.4
Household final consumption expenditure     97.7     75.7       73.1     76.6             1.5       4.0       3.1
General gov't final consumption expenditure  8.6      17.6      12.6      11.9           2.4        2.4       3.4
Gross capital formation                     15.2      14.1      18.7     17.6            -5.8       5.3       5.2
Exports of goods and services               15.8      19.2      25.4     15.0            -1.9       7.3       4.0
Imports of goods and services               37.3     26.5       29.7     27.0            -6.1       5.0       2.8
Gross savings                                 ..      14.0      20.6      8.3
Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2011 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are not available.
Fa. Aid data are for 2010.
Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).
57


﻿Country at a Glance (Continued)
Benin
Balance of Payments and Trade            2000     2011
Governance indicators, 2000 and 2010
(US$ millions)
Total merchandise exports (fob)            386     627
Total merchandise imports (cif)            447                     Voice and accountablity
Net trade in goods and services           -250    -924                Poltbal stabilty and
absence ofviobnce
Current account balance                   -104    -728
as a % of GDP                            -4.4    -10.0                Regulatoryquality
Workers' remittances and                                                    Rule of lw
compensation of employees (receipts)      87      248               Contrd of corruption
Reserves, including gold                   406     492                               0     25      50     75     1m
Central Government Finance                                            .W010.2000        Cougtrs percentile rank (il-u0)
higher val-e irrply bdter ratings
I% of GDP)
Current revenue (including grants)         16.0    19.9          Souce: Woddwide Govemance Indicatom (www.govindicatoms.org)
Tax revenue                              13.9    14.9
Current expenditure                        11.9    14.2
Technology and Infrastructure           2000     2010
Overall surplus/deficit                   -3.2     -2.3
Paved roads (% of total)                  20.0
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                  Fixed line and mobile phone
Individual                                 ..     35           subscribers (per 100 people)               2       81
Corporate                                  ..     38          High technology exports
(% of manufactured exports)               0.1     0.2
External Debt and Resource Flows
Environment
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,400   1,423        Agricultural land (% of land area)          29      30
Total debt service                          75      38         Forest area (% of land area)              45.8     41.2
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                   384     756         Terrestrial protected areas (% of land area)  23.8  23.8
Total debt (% of GDP)                     59.3     19.5         Freshwater resources per capita (cu. meters)  1,485  1,197
Total debt service (% of exports)          15.5     3.0        Freshwater withdrawal (billion cubic meters)
Foreign direct investment (net inflows)     67      ..          C02 emissions per capita (mt)            0.25    0.49
Portfolio equity (net inflows)               0
GDP per unit of energy use
(2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)     4.3     3.5
Composition of total external debt, 2010
Energy use per capita (kg of oil equivalent)  304  404
MYBli8t , no, u
Bilateral, 183      IDA, 383                      World Bank Group portfolio              2000     2010
(US$ millions)
IBRD
I 146                         Total debt outstanding and disbursed       -       0
Other lii-                                        Disbursements                             0       0
aterl, 5                                        Principal repayments                       -       0
Interest payments                          0       0
US$ nillions                                                  IDA
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     578     383
Disbursements                             36      79
Private Sector Development               2000     2011           Total debt service                        8        3
Time required to start a business (days)     -      29         IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business (% of GNI per capita)  -  154.3         Total disbursed and outstanding portfolio  0      13
Time required to register property (days)    -      120           of which IFC own account                  0      13
Disbursements for IFC own account          0       0
Ranked as a major constraint to business  2000   2010            Portfolio sales, prepayments and
(% of managers surveyed who agreed)                              repayments for IFC own account           0       0
'  Tax rates                                 ..    86.8
'  Tax administration                        ..    85.3         MIGA
Gross exposure                             -       2
Stock market capitalization (% of GDP)       ..      ..          New guarantees                             0       0
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)
Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2011 data are preliminary.                   3/4/13
.. indicates data are not available. - indicates observation is not applicable.
Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).
58


﻿Country at a Glance (Continued)
Millennium        Development Goals                                                                            Benin
With selected targets to achieve between 1990 and 2015
(estimate closest to date shown, +/- 2 years)                                              Benin
Goal 1: halve the rates for extreme poverty and malnutrition                 1990        1995       2000        2010
Poverty headcount ratio at $1.25 a day (PPP, % of population)
Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty line (% of population)            ..          ..        29.0
Share of income or consumption to the poorest qunitile (%)
Prevalence of malnutrition (% of children under 5)                             ..       26.8        21.5       20.2
Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
Primary school enrollment (net, %)                                            41         60                      94
Primary completion rate (% of relevant age group)                             19          31         40         63
Secondary school enrollment (gross, %)                                                               23         37
Youth literacy rate (% of people ages 15-24)                                  40          ..         45          54
Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
Ratio of girls to boys in primary and secondary education (%)                                        61          70
Women employed in the nonagricultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)  21                   24
Proportion of seats held by women in national parliament (%)                   3          7           6           8
Goal 4: reduce under-5 mortality by two-thirds
Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                           177         159         140        106
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                107         97          87         68
Measles immunization (proportion of one-year olds immunized, %)               79         65          70          69
Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
Maternal mortality ratio (modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)         770        660         530         350
Births attended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                     60          66         74
Contraceptive prevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                               ..         16         19          17
Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIVIAIDS and other major diseases
Prevalence of HIV (% of population ages 15-49)                                0.2         1.1        1.4         1.2
Incidence of tuberculosis (per 100,000 people)                                77         80          85         94
Tuberculosis case detection rate (%, all forms)                               57          53         49          45
Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
Access to an improved water source (% of population)                          57          62         66          75
Access to improved sanitation facilities (% of population)                     5           7          9          13
Forest area (% of land area)                                                 52.1         ..        45.8        41.2
Terrestrial protected areas (% of land area)                                 23.8       23.8        23.8       23.8
C02 emissions (metric tons per capita)                                        0.1        0.2         0.2        0.5
GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2005 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)     3.2        3.6         4.3        3.5
Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
Telephone mainlines (per 100 people)                                          0.3        0.5         0.8         1.5
Mobile phone subscribers (per 100 people)                                     0.0        0.0         0.9       79.9
Internet users (per 100 people)                                              0.0         0.0         0.2        3.1
Computer users (per 100 people)
Education indicators (%)                Measles immunization (% of 1-year        ICT indicators (per 100 people)
olds)
1D                                       19-                                       90
80
75                                       75                       7
50.                                                                               50
50                                       40
25                                                                                30
25                                       20
0 20         205         2010                                                  1
1990  1995  20O  2010                  2000        2005        2010
Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. .. indicates data are not available. 3/4/13
Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG).
59


﻿IBRD 33372
0                       E                       2E                      3E                      4E
DTo       sokoto
Do
-- - NIG~
BURKINA              \J12N
BENIN               FASO             fn
d(
Kandi
jII  Du-r                              0114]I
17                                            ALIBORI
ATAKORA
Natitingou                                                                        Km
Bembéréké
I0N                                                                                                           10N
Djougou
°   BO   GOU                     NIGERIA
TiO
TO
Kab         DONGA             S  Parakou
9N                                                                                                            9N
TOGO
0   20  40  60   80  100 Kilometers
0      20     40    60 Miles
GHANA
> GOLLINES
Thi mp 'O prdoodbytheMo Dnin Uito(hoWorld B-ok.
8N                                              Savalou                       boZd1.u or1d1of~n  n    n    8N
h  on ibm   n      t  Ihe World Bonk
Gr-p, -yt 92gnoo thZZe nomo oytrB, ro
ndrmetr occeptone of -oh b-dndes.
1E
PLATEAUJ                       BENIN
C borey   Cové                            0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
\hn                    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
7N                                        Aa7®                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL
tNoiré       Aplohoué
; gbo           ORIVERS
Lok.....                                        ru           o           __ _
M0                   k 0        . Sa  on         MAIN ROADS
Lo 0ssa ATLANTQUE                             RAILROADS
PORTO NOVO                DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
TO
SOuidah Cotonou  TTOR           - - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
O                                               2E Gulfof Guinea        3E
DECEMBER 2005


