                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR3189




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-52320)

                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.9 MILLION
                       (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                  FOR THE

         EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC-8)


                                 June 25, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2014)

                  Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)

                        US$1.00 = CFAF 482

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 - December 31



            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CEM        Country Economic Memorandum
CFAF       Communauté Financière Africaine Franc (African Financial
           Community Franc)
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CSPEF      Unit in Charge of Monitoring Economic and Financial Reforms
DBI        Doing Business Indicators
IEG        Independent Evaluation Group
EFA        Education for All
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
EU         European Union
FTI        Fast-Track Initiative
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GUFE       (Guichet Unique de Formation des Enterprises) Single Window for
           Business Formation
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
           Syndrome
ICRR       Implementation Completion Results Report
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Financial Corporation
IMF        International Monetary Fund
INSAE      National Statistics and Economic Analysis Institute
           (Institut National de la Statistique et de l’Analyse Economique)
ISR        Implementation Status and Results Report
MEF        Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy
           and Finance)
PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PDO `      Project Development Objective
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PPP        Public-Private Partnership
PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PVI        Programme de Vérification des Importations (Import Verification
           Program)


                                   i
ROC     Regional Operations Commitee
SCRP    Stratégie de Croissance pour la Réduction de la Pauvreté
        (Poverty Reduction Strategy)
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
WAEMU   West African Economic and Monetary Union




                Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
             Country Director:    Ousmane Diagana
               Sector Director:   Marcelo Giugale
              Sector Manager:     Miria A. Pigato
            Task Team Leader:     David Cal MacWilliam
                 ICRR Author:     Boulel Toure




                               ii
                                                REPUBLIC OF BENIN
           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
          EIGHTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC-8)

                                                          CONTENTS
DATA SHEET ........................................................................................................................... iv
A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................. iv
B. Key Dates .............................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................. iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................ v
E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................. v
H. Restructuring (if any) ........................................................................................................... vii

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 13
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 16


Annexes:

Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 18
Annex 2: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 19
Annex 3: Country Map ............................................................................................................. 20




                                                                   iii
                                     DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           BJ-PRSC 8 - Eighth
Country:                Benin                    Program Name:             Poverty Reduction
                                                                           Support
Program ID:             P127441                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-52320
ICR Date:               06/04/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           The Government of
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           Benin
Original Total
                        XDR 19.90M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 19.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 19.90M
Implementing Agencies: Cellule de Suivi du Programme Economique et Financier/Ministère de
l'Economie et des Finances
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/30/2012     Effectiveness:              07/17/2013       11/13/2013
Appraisal:            02/21/2013     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/09/2013     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                    12/31/2013       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Significant
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        Yes                                             None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     63                  63
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       6                   6
General industry and trade sector                                     25                  25
Ports, waterways and shipping                                          6                   6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Managing for development results                                      12                  12
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  13                  13
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      63                  63
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                     12                  12

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Makhtar Diop
Country Director:          Ousmane Diagana                      Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            Miria A. Pigato                      Miria A. Pigato
Program Team Leader:       David Cal MacWilliam                 David Cal MacWilliam
ICR Team Leader:           Boulel Toure
ICR Primary Author:        Boulel Toure


F. Results Framework Analysis




                                                   v
Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The over-riding development objective was to accelerate real economic growth and
reduce the incidence of poverty in Benin by focusing on the following two program
objectives or pillars:

(i) Strengthened public sector management, administration and governance; and

(ii) Strengthened business environment.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original
approving authority)

The objectives and indicators were not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                        Formally
                                          Original Target               Revised     Actual Value
    Indicator        Baseline Value: 2011
                                           Values: 2013                  Target    Achieved: 2013
                                                                         Values
Average public procurement delay (days):
        Goods              64                            <55                             44
        Services           71                            <65                             33
Public works               59                            <75                             54
Average payment                  15
delay (days)
                                                      <15                           Not reported
Budget execution rates – current expenditures (% excluding salaries):
  Ministry of                    86                   >80                              111.48
  Health
  Ministry of                    67                   >80                               73.4
  Water and
  Energy
  Ministry of                    86                   >80                              93.19
  Primary
  Education
  Ministry of                    81                   >80                              110.48
  Secondary
  Education
  Ministry of                    54                   >80                              95.00
  Agriculture
Budget execution rates -- public investment (%):
  Ministry of                    38                   >60                              75.83
  Health
  Ministry of                    48                   >60                              98.50
  Water and
  Energy
  Ministry of                    69                   >60                              76.12


                                                    vi
  Primary
  Education
  Ministry of               15                      >60                         88.86
  Secondary
  Education
  Ministry of               24                      >60                         78.06
  Agriculture
Budget execution            75                      >90
                                                                                100.6
rates -- priority
social expenditures
Publication of         Not published       Published within 3
quarterly budget                                months
execution reports                                                              Published
within 3 months of
end of quarter
Corruption                                  Improvement in
                            3.6
Perceptions Index                             Index, >3.6                         3.6
                           (94)
  (rank)
Time to start a
                            26                      <20                           15
business (days



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                            Values (from                     Achieved at
      Indicator       Baseline Value                         Revised
                                              approval                      Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                      Target Years
N/A

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP           Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1      09/02/2013         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                0.00
  2      06/01/2014         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory              30.60


H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                              vii
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     The Benin PRSC 8 was designed in a context of renewed political stability.
Following the March 13, 2011, elections and the April 30, 2011 parliamentary elections,
the Government was again headed by President Boni Yayi. This represented his second
and final five year term and the National Assembly was comprised of representatives
from eighth political parties, with President Yayi's party holding 41 seats, the opposition
20, and seven other parties aligned in a coalition with the President holding 22 seats.
Thus, the President enjoyed a working majority of 63 seats in the 83 seat National
Assembly at the time of design and approval of the operation.

2.      Following the elections, the Government had demonstrated a renewed
commitment to a substantive reform agenda and proceeded with meaningful
anticorruption efforts, made progress in strengthening public financial management,
especially public procurement processes, civil service reform accelerated, and important
steps were taken in improving the business enabling environment. At the port and within
the Customs Administration, implementation of both the single window (Guichet
Unique) and the import verification program (PVI), but particularly the latter, were being
met with strong resistance and resulted in serious disruptions to port operations and
government revenue collection. Nonetheless, the Government persevered over this period,
demonstrated considerable resolve in pursuing its ambitious reform agenda, effectively
countered the resistance, and pushed forward with its agenda.

3.      While considerable progress was being made, public sector capacity was weak
and corruption and rent-seeking behavior continued. Budget planning and expenditure
control, including procurement, had improved but continued to demonstrate considerable
weaknesses. As a result, budget execution rates had improved from less than 50 percent,
but remained less than 80 percent in many ministries and often fell well below that level
for investment spending. Limited capacity in the areas of procurement, planning and
financial management was a fundamental issue leading to low execution rates. This had
been exacerbated by poor performance on the revenue side, resulting in the need for
expenditure retrenchment

4.      While macroeconomic management had been commendable, progress on
structural reforms was mixed. On the private sector enabling environment, Benin had
largely stagnated in its Doing Business Indicators (DBI), falling to rank no. 175 in 2012
from 173 in 2011. The Government was proceeding with structural reforms to strengthen
competitiveness and improve the business climate, including ongoing efforts at the port
to facilitate trade, commerce and the movement and clearance of goods, as well as
implementation of a new national agricultural strategy.

5.     At the same time, Benin faced several additional challenges. In 2009 and 2010,
following the onset of the global economic crisis and the serious floods experienced in



                                            1
2010, economic growth slowed to 2.7 and 2.6 percent respectively. Growth in 2011
rebounded only slightly to 3.5 percent and then reached 5.4 percent in 2012 due to an
exceptional cotton harvest. Unfortunately, the incidence of poverty increased to 36
percent in 2011 compared to 35 percent in 2009. The support provided through the stand-
alone PRSC-8 operation sought to maintain and indeed accelerate the improving growth
performance. Helping Benin capitalize on its comparative advantages in commerce/trade
and in agriculture and agro-processing was at the heart of this PRSC, as in the CPS.
Exploiting these advantages systematically by creating a business environment conducive
to investment in the most promising sectors was seen as essential to facilitate the
structural transformation necessary to significantly increase per capita GDP.

6.      On the fiscal front Benin had been conservatively managing its fiscal position for
a number of years. The fiscal deficit had increased to -7.5 percent in 2009 following a
positive fiscal stimulus in response to the global economic and financial crisis. Spending
was however curtailed over the second half of 2009 and expenditure restraint has
continued since that time. The deficit was -3.1 percent of GDP in 2010 and -4.3 percent
in 2011. The overall fiscal deficit in 2012 was -3.6 percent with a basic primary balance
of 0.2 percent. This deficit was financed largely through the receipt of aid flows of
around 3.7 percent of GDP and the balance was financed by domestic borrowings or
borrowings on the regional market. This operation (US$30 million) represented
approximately 1.6 percent of planned government expenditures, or 11 percent of the
fiscal deficit.

7.      The PRSC-8 followed two previous PRSC series (six operations) and a standalone
PRSG-7 operation. A stand-alone operation for PRSC-8 was proposed in place of a
programmatic series as significant resistance to reforms from those with vested interests
in the status quo, particularly at the port and in the cotton sector, had created significant
uncertainty. While wishing to support the substantive reform effort at time, it was
considered premature to commit to a new PRSC series without complete clarity in these
important areas. The thought was that a stand-alone operation would provide needed
support for reform efforts, while providing time for greater clarity to emerge in these
more difficult areas prior to committing to a new programmatic series. The reforms
supported by the operation were closely aligned with the SCRP 2011-2015 and were also
in-line with the new CPS covering the 2013-2017 period, which was reviewed by the
Board concurrently with this operation, and the operation also leveraged and
complemented other Bank operations in Benin.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

8.      The over-riding development objective was to accelerate real economic growth
and reduce the incidence of poverty in Benin by focusing on the following two program
objectives or pillars:

  (i) Strengthened public sector management, administration and governance; and
  (ii) Strengthened business environment.


                                             2
Key outcome indicators (as approved)

9.    Eight outcomes were identified and were captured through 18 medium term
outcome indicators with indicative targets noted for 2013.

                      Indicators                                               Indicative targets
                                                                                     2013
1. Average public procurement delay (days):
- Goods                                                                               <55
- Services                                                                            <65
- Public works                                                                        <75

2. Average payment delay (days)                                                       <15

3. Budget execution rates – current expenditures (% excluding salaries):
- Ministry of Health                                                                  >80
- Ministry of Water and Energy                                                        >80
- Ministry of Primary Education                                                       >80
- Ministry of Secondary Education                                                     >80
- Ministry of Agriculture                                                             >80

4. Budget execution rates -- public investment (%):
- Ministry of Health                                                                  >60
- Ministry of Water and Energy                                                        >60
- Ministry of Primary Education                                                       >60
- Ministry of Secondary Education                                                     >60
- Ministry of Agriculture                                                             >60

5. Budget execution rates -- priority social expenditures                            >90

6. Quarterly budget execution reports within 3 months of end of quarter:   Published within 3 months

7. Corruption Perceptions Index:                                           Improvement in Index, >3.6
      (rank)

8. Time to start a business (days)                                                    <20



1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

10.      The objectives and indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

11.    In line with program objectives, the PRSC-8 focused on strengthening public
sector management, administration and governance; and improving the business
environment through focusing on the policy areas noted below:




                                                      3
PILLAR 1: Public Financial Management and Public Administration

   (i) Budget Planning and Execution;
   (ii) Procurement;
   (iii) Public Sector Governance.

PILLAR 2: Private Sector Competitiveness and Economic Diversification

   (i) Transport, Port and Customs Administration Reform;
   (ii) Private Sector Enabling Environment;
   (iii) Agricultural Diversification and Cotton Sector Reform.

12.     The PRSC-8 supported key policy reforms as detailed in the Government’s Letter
of Development Policy (LDP). These measures were consistent with the SCRP-3 (2011-
2015) and the associated Priority Action Plan. Effective implementation of all prior
actions (Table 1), as defined in the Financial Agreement, formed the basis for IDA to
proceed with the proposed operation. Given that the PRSC-8 was a standalone operation,
no triggers were defined for subsequent operations.

13.     However, given that consideration was given to presenting a PRSC 8-10 series,
policy dialogue and ongoing discussions with the authorities largely revolved around a
three year reform agenda. This was sustained even after the decision was made to switch
to a stand-alone operation in order to sustain this ongoing policy dialogue around a
medium term horizon which could be pursued under subsequent budget support
operations. As such, while triggers targeting future reforms were not included directly in
the PRSC 8, the dialogue continued to focus on a medium-term reform program.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

14.    Policy areas and prior actions were not revised in the course of implementing this
operation.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes to the operation.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

15.    PRSC 8 was designed as a stand-alone Development Policy Operation. It was
approved on April 09, 2013. The credit became effective on November 12, 2013 and was
closed on December, 31, 2013. There were 8 prior actions for the stand alone operation
(see Table 1 below). All the prior actions were met prior to negotiations.




                                            4
                               Table 1: Policy Matrix for PRSC-8

                                     Prior Action                                             Status
Published, on an ongoing basis beginning with the first quarter of 2012, quarterly       Achieved
budget execution reports, and made such reports available to the public, including by    (Ongoing)
placing the reports on the Ministry of Finance’s public website.

Created the public procurement agencies responsible for the control and awarding of      Achieved
public procurement contracts and rendered them operational in line with WAEMU
directives, specifically, (i) the Regulatory Authority for procurement, (ii) National
Directorate of Public Procurement Control and Monitoring, (iii) line ministry
procurement units.

Adopted a decree specifying the timelines applicable to the control procedures and       Achieved
awarding of public procurement contracts.

Adopted standardized public bidding and contract documents.                              Achieved

Adopted a decree nominating the members of the National Public Procurement               Achieved
Council (Conseil Nationale de Régulation des Marchés Publics) and the decree
nominating the permanent secretary of the public procurement authority (Secrétaire
Permanent de l’Authorité des Marchés Publics).

Adopted the decrees related to the Anti-Corruption Law:                                  Achieved
i.   Art. 3: Decree identifying those government appointees, dignitaries and public
     servants subject to asset disclosure and declaration;
ii.  Art. 8: Decree establishing the terms and conditions of the National Anti-
     Corruption Authority;
iii. Art. 10: Decree establishing and clarifying exceptions to the prohibition of
     engaging in gainful employment for public servants (conflict of interest
     provisions);
iv. Art. 31: Decree establishing the conditions for the protection of whistleblowers,
     witnesses, experts, and victims.

Adopted an order relating to the establishment of an Open Data Initiative for public     Achieved
statistics including those generated by INSAE through its various surveys, activities,
and operations.

Created and made operational the Single Window for Business Formation (GUFE)             Achieved
including the selection of a Managing Director.


16.    The publication on an ongoing basis of quarterly budget execution reports has
helped to improve the budget monitoring and execution in all the ministries. The
adoption of a decree specifying the timelines applicable to the control procedures and
awarding of public procurement contracts has helped to reduce average public
procurement delays.

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

17.    The over-riding objective of the operation was to accelerate real economic growth
and reduce the incidence of poverty in Benin. To achieve this goal of accelerated growth,


                                                    5
both increased public and private investment are required. The main factors contributing
to low investment levels over the PRSC-8 period were: (1) continuing weak procurement
and financial management practices that, though improving, led to weak execution of the
public investment budget; and (2) private investment continues to be modest due to a
perceived weak business environment, a perception which was not helped by the very
public dispute between the President and Talon Group. The Talon Group had been a
favored private sector partner under the Yayi administration. Contractual disputes and
governance and performance issues between the Government and the Talon Group
surfaced in April/May 2012 in the port and cotton sectors. This resulted in the brief
judicial detainment of Patrice Talon who then fled to France after his release. This was
followed by an alleged poisoning attempt on President Yayi Boni with Patrice Talon
identified as the mastermind behind the attempt. This ongoing dispute continues to
disrupt performance in the cotton and port sector and has soured relations between the
Government and the private sector.

18.     Improving public financial management practices, particularly long-standing
public procurement practices, and strengthening the business and investment climate are
medium- to long-term undertakings. As such, while PRSC-8 continued to build on the
reforms commenced under PRSG-7 in these areas, and while improvement in related
indicators has been notable, further improvement is needed to meet the high level
objective of attaining sustainable economic growth rates sufficient to meaningfully
reduce poverty.

Political Factors

19.     Following the elections in March and April 2011, the President enjoyed a working
majority in the National Assembly and a number of meaningful reforms were undertaken
in the months following the elections. The Government implemented difficult reforms at
the Port of Cotonou, proceeded with anti-corruption efforts, made progress in
strengthening public financial management, public procurement processes in particular,
accelerated civil service reform, and took important steps to improve the business
enabling environment. However, as of late-2012 there seemed to be some growing
dissention among the president’s allies and from within his governing coalition. This
became further apparent recently by the Parliamentary rejection of the 2014 budget, as
some members of the President's coalition voted against the adoption of the Budget. This
led the President to trigger Article 110 of the Constitution, by which the budget was
adopted by proclamation, and weakened consensus for structural reforms.

20.     In addition, the personal/political dispute and deteriorating relations between
President Yayi and Patrice Talon, Benin’s leading private sector operator, had significant
negative effects on the design of this operation. This dispute with the Talon Group
extended to the cotton and agriculture sector, as well as the port, and was a major
distraction for the Government over the period. This led to reforms in the cotton sector
and the port not being supported by this operation due to the high level of uncertainty in
these sectors, though dialogue and TA in these areas continued.




                                            6
Donor Coordination

21.     Benin has developed an effective donor coordination mechanism through the
monitoring of its poverty reduction strategy implementation. Annual joint government-
donor PRS reviews are held to assess progress around a set of identified result indicators.
Coordination groups are also organized sectorally, and meet generally quarterly,
including joint donor-government groups on macroeconomic management and public
financial management. PRSC-8 supervision was performed within this broader context
and allowed for effective coordination with other donor programs and projects, including
those donors also providing direct budget, i.e., the European Union. Prior actions
included in the PRSC-8 were discussed with the donors and their input was solicited and
incorporated.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

22.     PRSC-8 was designed to support implementation of the Government’s strategic
development objectives. It was monitored within the joint government-donor SCRP-3
monitoring mechanism, which included periodic reviews at the sectoral level, including
the macroeconomic and public financial management group’s quarterly meetings with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and other sectoral ministries. PRSC-8 results
indicators are consistent with the Government’s PRS results indicators and thus were
monitored and evaluated in the M&E framework defined in the PRS. Annual high level
joint donor-government reviews are held (usually in the second half of June) to assess
progress in implementing the PRS and the attainment of targets defined for each sector.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

23.     Significant resistance to reforms from those with vested interests in the status quo,
particularly at the port and in the cotton sector, has created some uncertainty. Given this
background, PRSC-8 proceeded as a stand-alone operation, until greater clarity was
achieved in these areas and to help maintain consensus for key reforms in other areas and
alleviate financial pressures. Since then the Government has implemented difficult
reforms at the Port of Cotonou by undertaking a broad range of reforms, from upgrading
port infrastructure to reducing customs documentation. Dwell time at the Port of Cotonou
was sharply reduced, falling from nearly 30 days in late 2011/early 2012 to a current
average of 5 to 6 days. The introduction of a ‘single window’ (guichet unique), along
with expanded facilities for truck parking and staging, new lighting systems, and a state-
of-the-art security system represent important improvements in port management and
operational efficiency. Having encountered difficulties in implementing the PVI in 2011
and early 2012 the Government cancelled its service contract with Benin Control (Talon
Group), the service provider, and has approved a new approach for customs reform, with
technical assistance from the IMF and the Bank, based on strengthening the capacity of
the customs administration to fulfill its key functions. Following satisfactory performance
under the PRSC-8, a new PRSC 9-11 series was approved and is currently being
implemented.




                                             7
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

       Relevance of objectives

24.     The over-riding development objective of this PRSC, in line with Benin's SCRP,
the CPS and the Africa Regional Strategy was to accelerate real economic growth and
reduce the incidence of poverty in Benin. The policy measures pursued under PRSC-8
focused on two primary program objectives against which the operation was to be
measured. The first was strengthening public administration through improved public
financial management and public sector governance (budget planning and execution,
procurement, internal control and audit, and anti-corruption measures). The second focus
was on strengthening private sector competitiveness through an improved business
environment more conducive to private sector growth. These were main development
challenges the Government was facing at the time of its preparation and where there was
resolve to proceed with the implementation of ambitious policy reforms.

       Relevance of design

25.     PRSC-8 built upon lessons learned from previous PRSC series, and the standalone
PRSG-7 which recommended focusing budget support operations on fewer selected
policy areas. The reforms supported by PRSC-8 operation were closely aligned with the
SCRP 2011-2015 and the credit was in-line with the proposed new CPS covering the
2013-2017 period, and leveraged and complemented other Bank operations in Benin.
PRSC- 8 was firmly grounded in recent ESW reports (the 2007 PEFA, the 2010 Public
Expenditure Review (PER), the 2005 Investment Climate Assessment (lCA) and the
annual Doing Business Reports, the 2009 CEM etc.) The operation was evaluated to be
of only moderate risk, mainly because of Benin’s strong track record of political stability,
but set with an environment of low implementation capacity.

       Relevance of implementation

26.     Technical assistance was provided under PRSC-8 and focused on improving port
performance, strengthening Customs reforms and improving public financial
management by providing assistance in integrating the payroll system with the broader
human resource management system. Assistance at the port and to the Customs
administration was intended to help address serious port and Customs performance issues
following the dispute between the President and the Talon Group. This was seen as
necessary to get important reform efforts in these areas back on track in preparation for a
programmatic series following two stand-alone operations stemming largely from this
issue. Port performance increased markedly following this TA, thought attribution is
difficult, and the Government also adopted a new Customs reform program informed by
the TA. This additional contribution in the form of TA provided under the PRSC-8
operation was integral to furthering the achievement of objectives.




                                             8
3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

27.     The PRSG-7 was fundamentally designed to capitalize on the post-election
impetus to advance ambitious reforms and to demonstrate clear government commitment.
PRSC-8 built on this reform program and developed measurable outcome indicators
related to the policy areas and prior actions agreed to with the authorities. Of the 18
results indicators for which 2013 targets were set, 15 (83 percent) were fully met, one
showed improvement but was not attained, one was stagnant, and one is no longer
reported by the Government (though attempts are being made to achieve greater clarity
on this indicator).

                                  Table 2: Outcome Indicators Matrix

Indicator                                            Historic          Baseline     Indicative        Actual
                                                                                      targets        Outcome
                                              2009          2010         2011          2013            2013
Average public procurement delay (days):
- Goods                                        54                88       64            <55              44
- Services                                     62                80       71            <65              33
- Public works                                 92                91       59            <75              54
Average payment delay (days)                  19.5              17.6      15            <15         Government
                                                                                                     no longer
                                                                                                    reports this
                                                                                                     indicator
Budget execution rates – current
expenditures (% excluding salaries):
- Ministry of Health                           67               71        86            >80           111.48
- Ministry of Water and Energy                 91               74        67            >80            73.4
- Ministry of Primary Education                34               60        86            >80           93.19
- Ministry of Secondary Education              48               63        81            >80           110.48
- Ministry of Agriculture                      56               43        54            >80           95.00
Budget execution rates -- public
investment (%):
- Ministry of Health                           28               27        38            >60            75.83
- Ministry of Water and Energy                 29               87        48            >60            98.50
- Ministry of Primary Education                11               61        69            >60            76.12
- Ministry of Secondary Education              23               65        15            >60            88.86
- Ministry of Agriculture                                       20        24            >60            78.06
Budget execution rates -- priority social                                 75            >90            100.6
expenditures
Publication of quarterly budget execution     Not           Not          Not          Published      published
reports within 3 months of end of quarter   published     published    published       within 3
                                                                                       months
Corruption Perceptions Index                   2.8           3.0          3.6       Improvement         3.6
   (rank)                                     (110)         (100)        (94)      in Index, >3.6
Time to start a business (days)                 31            31          26             <20            15



28.     In line with the overall objective of PRSC-8 and the Government’s SCRP-3 to
accelerate growth and reduce poverty, real GDP growth rebounded to 5.4 percent in 2012
and reached 5.6 percent in 2013 – the highest growth rates in over a decade. Poverty
indicators however, were mixed. Monetary poverty increased to 36.2 percent in 2011


                                                     9
(against 35.2 in 2009), with both rural and urban poverty increasing during the period.
However, non-monetary poverty decreased from 35.0 percent in 2009 to 29.5 percent; in
rural areas, it decreased from 38.3 percent in 2009 to 32.5 percent in 2011. These results
cannot be specifically attributed to policy reforms supported by PRSC-8 and more recent
poverty figures are not yet available.

Pillar I: Strengthened public sector management, administration and governance (budget
planning and execution, procurement, internal control and audit, and anti-corruption
measures)

(Rating: Satisfactory)

29.    Under the first objective, or Pillar 1, indicators generally showed significant
progress. In particular, the prior actions relating to the passage of several public
procurement decrees and the ongoing policy dialogue on public procurement processes
showed positive results.

30.     In terms of indicators on public procurement delays, the targets were met for all
indicators: for goods procurement the result was 44 days against a target of 55 days; for
services the result was 33 days while the target was 65; and for public works (arguably
the most problematic area) the result was 54 days against a target of 75 days. All these
indicators improved from the baseline, 64 to 44, 71 to 33, and 59 to 54.

31.     Budget execution rates improved significantly (See Table 2) with the exception of
current expenditures in the Ministry of Water and Energy which at 73.4% remain below
the target of 80%. Execution rates for priority identified line items were 75% at end-2011,
but improved to 100.6% by end-2013, while the target was to maintain the execution rate
on priority line items above 90%.

32.    The Corruption Perceptions Index as measured by Transparency International,
included as a measure of progress in the fight against corruption, did not change in 2013
from a score of 3.6 (rank of 94) in 2012. The score was 3.0 (rank of 100) in 2011, 2.8
(rank of 110) in 2010, and 2.9 (rank of 106) in 2009. Nonetheless, administrative actions
have been taken in several high profile corruption cases and the President has made
several pronouncements against corruption. Progress in this regard is positive and the
Bank is providing technical assistance to the National Anti-Corruption Authority to
ensure effective implementation of measures supported under both PRSC-8 and PRSC-9.

33.      The adoption of an order relating to the establishment of an Open Data Initiative
for public statistics including those generated by INSAE through its various surveys,
activities and operations was not expected to produce a real outcome in the form of
immediately available data, but has opened the way for meaningful actions that will lead
to data becoming publically available. For example, census data has been sent to the
University of Minnesota in order to be rendered anonymous before being made publicly
available, and an open data readiness assessment is being planned. These are important




                                           10
steps prior to releasing data that were unlikely to have been taken in the absence of the
Ministerial order supported by this operation.

Pillar II: Improve private sector competitiveness through a strengthened business
environment conducive to private sector growth.

(Rating: Satisfactory)

34.     Although the Pillar 2 includes 3 policy areas, a prior action was considered only
in the area of ‘Private Sector Enabling Environment’. Over the PRSC-8 period, Beninese
authorities stepped up efforts to improve the business environment. Benin’s ranking in
the 2014 doing business report improved slightly (174th out of 189 countries from 175th).
A Presidential Investment Council with qualified experts (including one IFC technical
expert) designed an action plan to strengthen DB indicators in six areas. The program
was supported by IFC and some progress was noted in the areas of dealing with
construction permits; getting electricity; trading across borders; enforcing contracts and
starting a business.

35.     With regard to starting a business, the creation and operationalization of the
Single Window for Business Formation (GUFE) which was supported as a prior action
has contributed to a reduction in the time needed to start a business from 26 days in 2011
to 15 days in 2013 (the target noted in PRSC-8 was 20 days). Indeed, if an applicant has
all paperwork in order the authorities assert that a business license can be issued with a
single day.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

(Rating: Satisfactory)

36.     This rating is based on relevance and PDO achievement. The PRSC-8 series was
highly relevant to the economic, political and social context at the moment of
implementation. Considering a single operation, in a context of significant resistance to
reforms and uncertainties, was successful in encouraging commitment to more ambitious
reforms. It also laid the foundation for the current PRSC 9-11 series and helped maintain
reform momentum, both through the actions supported and the provision of TA, in an
environment of considerable uncertainty. However, the time period covered by a single
operation does not lend itself to the evaluation of meaningful outcomes and the full
implementation of planned reforms. As such, it is premature to determine the full impact
of the supported measures on outcomes and this will only become apparent over time,
though the short-term horizon targets included in the results framework were almost all
achieved.

37.    The achievement of outcomes over the longer-term will also be dependent on the
ongoing support provided for implementation of the reforms that were commenced under
PRSG-7 and PRSC-8. Looking at the PRSC-8 operation as laying the foundation for a
subsequent PRSC9-11 and the commencement of a deeper more meaningful reform



                                           11
phase, the operation would be considered satisfactory. In addition, almost all indicators
were achieved over the short time span of the operation. Furthermore, initial indications
coming in for 2014 appear to be showing some accelerated improvement in several areas,
notably on the business environment.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

38.      Preliminary results of the joint Bank-National Statistics Bureau poverty
assessment suggest that non-monetary poverty decreased over recent years (30.2 percent
in 2011 compared to 30.8 percent in 2009), but that the level of monetary poverty
remained more or less constant (36.2 percent in 2011). Poverty among female-headed
households was estimated at 27.6 percent in 2011, below those of males at 38 percent.
Improvement of budget execution in the social sectors (education, health) has increased
access to health services for women, and children under five. Access to education for
girls, a focus of the education program (funded by the EFA), has also improved due to
improved budget execution.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

39.     Besides the direct development objectives described earlier, it was also expected
that PRSC-8 implementation, related technical assistance and the policy dialogue effort
would foster institutional change and strengthening in Benin. This was particularly the
case in the area of civil service reform, where insight was provided by ESW work
included in the monitoring and implementation of PRSG-7 and in the preparation of
PRSC-8. Assistance was provided to the Government in helping it plan the harmonization
and merging of their human resources information/management systems with their
payroll systems in an effort to help control the wage bill and better manage public service
career and payment processes. This assistance went beyond the impact of prior actions. In
addition, at the Government's request, the Bank provided in October 2012 a policy note
on improving the operational performance of the port. This complemented efforts and
investments in the port by the Millennium Challenge Corporation and several of the
recommendations included in the note were implemented in November 2012. Finally, the
Bank also provided TA on customs reform issues as noted earlier. These TA efforts were
funded through PRSC-8 related bank budget resources and should be considered an
integral part of the results achieved under the operation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

None.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

(Rating: Significant)




                                            12
40.     Risks that the operation was facing at implementation included: (i)
macroeconomic risks, including exogenous shocks and changes in commodity prices,
which may negatively affect macroeconomic outcomes; (ii) political risk and weakening
consensus for structural reforms; and (iii) weak implementation capacity, due to lack of
sufficient professional staff and poor communication and coordination amongst
departments in charge of implementing the reforms. Macroeconomic risks did not
materialize to any significant extent over the implementation period and the macro
environment remains of low to moderate risk.

41.     While the Government undertook ambitious reforms following the 2011 general
elections, some of which were supported under PRSC-8, some uncertainty remains
around reforms in the cotton sector and within the Customs administration. The policy
reversal of the partnership contracted with private operators in the port (April/May 2012)
has substantially undermined private sector appetite to engage in long term contractual
relationships with the Government of Benin. In the cotton sector, Government control of
the entire value chain poses similar private sector concerns and also poses some
budgetary risk. Recently expressed government commitment to move to a zoning model
in the cotton sector with increased participation of the private sector may be difficult to
achieve in an environment of limited trust. The Customs reform program, while sound in
principle, also involves some private sector engagement, so poses similar concerns, but
may face more serious risks from resistance to change from within the administration and
from those trying to protect personal interests.

42.     In addition, private investment may continue to stagnate at the low levels
witnessed recently due to perceived higher risk among private sector actors. This could
continue to constrain growth and limit fiscal space. Finally, trade policy changes in
Nigeria could significantly affect re-export trade from Benin and hence revenue
collection, with a resultant impact on fiscal space and budget execution in key social
sectors.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

(Rating: Satisfactory)

43.    PRSC-8 was prepared through intensive consultation with the Government and
other donors (IMF, EU, in particular). The team supported the Government in identifying
and focusing the operation on selected policy challenges to help Benin’s SCRP-3
implementation. Results indicators were consistent with those defined for each pillar in
the Government’s SCRP-3.

44.    PRSC-8 was well conceived, focused on important and timely reforms and was
aligned with Benin’s SCRP, the Bank’s CPS and was complementary to and supportive



                                            13
of other Bank operations in Benin. Risks were well identified, including: political risks
and potential resistance to reforms; external economic risks; and capacity constraints.
These risks in the end had some bearing on eventual outcomes and performance. The
political risk associated with Benin Control (Talon Group) at the port and developments
in the cotton sector was well considered at the inception of the operation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

(Rating: Satisfactory)

45.     The team closely monitored implementation of the reform agenda agreed to with
the Government at three levels: (i) regular discussions and meetings between the country
office and government focal points in charge of coordinating the reform agenda; (ii)
periodic Bank macroeconomic team missions, which included assessment of progress in
implementing the reforms; and (iii) the annual joint government-donor SCRP reviews,
which were also preceded by sector reviews. Engaging the authorities on the need to
demonstrate more resolve and commitment to ambitious reform was successful and has
laid the foundation for future reforms and subsequent PRSC operations and series.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

(Rating: Satisfactory)

46.     As Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision were both rated Satisfactory,
overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory in accordance with IEG harmonized ICR
rating criteria.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

(Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

47.     Government performance in preparing and implementing policy reforms
supported by PRSC-8 was mixed. The Government actively engaged in effective policy
dialogue around the supported reforms and responded willingly when asked to consider
increasing the level of ambition and then effectively accelerated reforms that had been in
the pipeline. In addition, the Government persisted in the face of resistance to reforms,
particularly at the port, and demonstrated considerable resolve. However, the resistance
to change and administrative capacity limitations were strongly present, especially in the
implementation of port and Customs reforms. Nonetheless, the Government took decisive
action when confronted with under-performance and appears to be addressing prior
weaknesses in implementation. Finally, decisions made and political developments
arising at the highest levels of government, including the dispute between the President
and the Talon Group, had an impact on the reform program and as noted resulted in




                                           14
important Customs and cotton reforms being delayed and not forming part of this
operation as originally intended.

48.     Authorities in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) were fully committed
to the reform program, especially the focal point unit at the MEF (Unit in Charge of
Monitoring Economic and Financial Reforms – CSPEF). CSPEF was integrally involved
in the design of the program and contributed directly to the preparation process. However,
over the course of implementation, the Borrower’s performance was often hampered by
the lack of coordination between line agencies in charge of implementing various reforms
and the center.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Not applicable

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

(Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

49.     As the Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory, and as the
Government and Implementing Agency are indistinguishable, the overall Borrower
Performance is rated moderately satisfactory in accordance with IEG harmonized ICR
rating criteria.

6. Lessons Learned

(i)    In the presence of significant resistance to reforms and uncertainties, a stand-alone
       operation as proposed, in place of a programmatic series, proved effective.
       Delaying the programmatic series and switching the operation to a stand-alone basis
       was effective in providing needed support for ongoing reform efforts, while
       allowing time for greater clarity to emerge in difficult areas prior to committing to a
       new programmatic series and generating the necessary commitment to and action
       on important reforms.

(ii)   A good understanding of the socio-political dynamics at play is needed to engage in
       transformational policy reform in Benin. The volatile and shifting links between
       key public and private players can hamper the sustainability of structural reforms
       needed to boost economic growth, as witnessed during PRSG-7 and PRSC-8 in the
       port and cotton sectors. Public private partnership arrangements need a sound legal
       and regulatory framework (PPP Law) for engaging in transparent, fair and
       sustainable partnerships.

(iii) Obstacles due to resistance to change and lack of capacity should not be
      underestimated. Selectivity and simplicity of design are essential for success in such
      environments, as are attention to and realism about the scope and pace of reform.




                                              15
          The difficulties encountered around port reforms supported under PRSG- 7 and
          PRSC-8 were a clear illustration of this phenomenon.

(iv) PRSG-7 and PRSC-8 highlighted the importance of providing well-targeted
     technical assistance and ESW in support of key reforms where government capacity,
     though not commitment or determination, may be lacking. Bank-provided technical
     assistance under PRSG-7 and PRSC-8 was instrumental in assisting the
     Government with implementation of the supported reform agenda.

(v)       Stated objectives and monitored results indicators need to be realistic, focused on
          indicators that are attributable to supported actions, and consistent over a
          meaningful period of time. Prior PRSC series focused on indicators situated at a
          level where attribution was difficult, if not impossible, and where a variety of
          exogenous factors weighed far more heavily on the achievement, or non-
          achievement, of results than supported actions. Furthermore, changing indicators
          frequently from one series to the next does not allow for the tracking of progress in
          areas where such progress takes considerable time to achieve objectives or effect
          meaningful change.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

50.     Comments received from the Ministry of Economy and Finance are summarized
as follows:

51.    The reform program supported by PRSC-8 financing facilitated significant
progress in the following areas:

      •    Public Procurement: Measures implemented under the supported program
           reduced delays in public procurement through the adoption of a decree specifying
           the timelines applicable to the control procedures and awarding of public
           procurement contracts. It also improved efficiency and transparency in the public
           procurement process through the creation of the public procurement agencies
           responsible for the control and awarding of public procurement: (i) the Regulatory
           Authority for procurement; (ii) National Directorate of Public Procurement
           Control and Monitoring; and (iii) line ministry procurement units.

      •    Governance: Decrees were adopted related to the implementation of the Anti-
           Corruption Law in order to fight illicit behavior and preserve public resources for
           accelerating growth and reducing poverty. The decrees identified those
           government appointees, dignitaries and public servants subject to asset disclosure
           and declaration, established the terms and conditions of the National Anti-
           Corruption Authority, etc. The Bank is supporting Benin in effectively
           implementing the various decrees and legislation in order to ensure full
           implementation of the new public procurement code and the Anti-Corruption Law.


                                                16
        Those within the Government and the public administration supportive of anti-
        corruption efforts appreciate Bank support, engagement and dialogue in this area,
        as commitment to fighting corruption within the administration varies widely.
        Bank support for governance on corruption issues keeps the agenda moving
        forward.

   •    Business environment: The Government created and made operational the Single
        Window for Business Formation (GUFE) and that decreased significantly the time
        required to start a business from 26 in 2011 to 15 in 2013.

(b) Cofinanciers

None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

52.   The chairs and members of the donor coordination thematic groups on
Macroeconomic/Public Financial Management and private sector development (the EU)
commented on PRSC-8 design, implementation and results. Their comments are
summarized below:

   •    The PRSC-8 strategic objectives were relevant and consistent with the
        Government’s SCRP-3 macroeconomic and sectoral objectives and concur with
        their achievement.

   •    The PRSC-8 also contributed to strengthening donor coordination at the
        macroeconomic and sectoral levels by facilitating concrete policy dialogue around
        key economic and structural reforms with the Beninese authorities. However,
        prior actions should be more ambitious as authorities have a tendency to accept
        only soft policy measures and those with limited risk in implementation.

   •    While Bank efforts to share information around policy reforms is commendable,
        this could be improved within the macroeconomic thematic group in order to
        foster more synergy and complementarity among donors providing budget
        support in a public environment characterized by limited capacity.




                                           17
  Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Erick Herman Abiassi      Agric. Economist                     AFTA1
Aissatou Diallo           Senior Finance Officer               CTRLA
Mathias Gogohounga        Procurement Specialist               AFTPW
Alain Hinkati             Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTMW
Amadou Ibrahim            Senior Economist                     AFTP4
David Cal MacWilliam      Senior Economist                     AFTP4
Boulel Toure              Senior Economist                     AFTP4
Solange Alliali           Senior Counsel                       LEGAF
Judite Fernandes          Program Assistant                    AFTP4




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                          Total:                                             0.00
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                                       240,954.130




                                           18
                    Annex 2: List of Supporting Documents

PRSG-8

  -   Memorandum for regional operations Committee (ROC) Review Meeting,
      “Benin: Eighth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC-8)”

  -   Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, Eighth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
      (PRSC-8)

  -   Program Document, “Benin: Eighth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit (PRSC-8)”
      (Report No. 74866-BJ)

Other Documents

  -   Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Benin, Report No-464856-BJ

  -   Benin: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2007-2010, September 2006

  -   Benin: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, 2011-2015, March 2011

  -   Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note of the Republic of Benin Third Poverty

  -   Reduction Strategy Paper, August 26, 2011

  -   Annual PRSP Review Documents as prepared by the Government of Benin
      (progress Reports)

  -   Annual Aide-memoires following annual joint donor reviews of PRSP progress
      Various Back-To-Office-Reports




                                        19
Annex 3: Country Map




         20
