Domia of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4323-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TlIE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$28.5 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
May 21, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kina (K) = 100 toea (t)
Average 1985            December 1985
US$1 = K 1               US$1 = K 1
K 1  = US$1              K I  = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 through 1977
January 1 to December 31 beginning in 1978
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m      =   meter (3.281 feet)
m3         cubic meter (35.31 cubic feet)
m3s    =   cubic meter per second (35.315 cubic feet per second)
km         kilometer (0.62 miles)
km2    =   square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
kWh    =   kilowatt hour (860-42 keals)
GWh    =   gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW     =   kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW     =   Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV         kilovolt (1,000 volts)
KVA    =   kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
TCF        trillion cubic feet (0.283 x 10 cu m)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADAB   -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB    -   Asian Development Bank
BCL    -   Bougainville Copper Limited
CIF    -   Cost, Insurance, Freight
EIB    -   European Investment Bank
ELCOM  -   Electricity Commission
EPU    -   Energy Planning Unit
MME    -   Ministry of Minerals and Energy
NDS    -   National Development Strategy
OECF   -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PNG    -   Papua New Guinea
SMEC   -   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation of Australia
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Beneficiary:    The Electricity Commission (ELCOM)
Amount:         US$28.5 million
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years of grace on repayment of
principal, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending:      The Government will onlend the proceeds of this loan to ELCOM
at its applicable rate for power projects (currently llX) or
at the prevailing Bank rate, whichever is higher, for the same
term as the proposed Bank loan. ELCOM will assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The project comprises: (a) construction of a 60 m high earth-
fill dam on the Ramu River with a total embankment volume of
about 1.8 million cu m, a spillway system and outlet struc-
ture, and associated works; (b) installation of two additional
15 MW generating units together with step-up transformers at
the existing Ramu I power station; (c) relocation of a part of
the Highlands highway and local access roads, together
totalling 22 km; (d) engineering and consulting services;
(e) a training program; (f) technical assistance for
institutional support; and (g) a rural electrification
component.
Benefits:       The proposed loan supports a major hydroelectric power
development which would reduce ELCOM's dependence on costly
imported oil and replace it with indigenous hydro resources.
The project would also provide adequate training and institu-
tional support to assist ELCOM's development of local staff
resources, and develop an institutional and policy framework
for a future rural electrification program.
Risks:          The project faces no special risks.  ELCOM has endeavored to
minimize the project risks during construction particularly
with respect to the treatment of the embankment foundation. A
grout curtain has been designed to fill cavities in the con-
glomerates with cement and possible sand lenses with chemical
grout. The design is satisfactory. ELCOM has also acted
promptly in prepariza- to upgrade the operating voltage for the
transmission lines to 132 Kv in readiness for the
commissioning of the power station.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutiea Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatdon.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                   Local       Foreign    Total
-   -- US$ million        --
Civil works                                      14.0        21.0        35.0
Electrical and mechanical                         2.0         5.0         7.0
Engineering and consuLting services /a            3.0         5.6         8.6
Construction-related establishment expenses    5.5             -          5.5
Training and institutional development            9.4         5.1        14.5
Rural electrification                             1.2         2.4         3.6
Base Cost /b                                35.1       39.1        74.2
Contingencies
Physical                                        4.2         5.0         9.2
Price                                           7.7         8.5        16.2
Total Project Cost                          47.0        52.6       99.6
Interest during construction                         7.3        10.5        17.8
Total financing required                         54.3        63.1       117.4
Financing Plan:                                    Local        Foreign   Total
---  US$ million --
IBRD loan                          12.7        15.8        28.5
ADAB grant                           -          1.0         1.0
EIB loan                            7.0         9.0        16.0
OECF loan                          11.2        26.8        38.0
ELCON internal cash generation   23.4          10.5        33.9
Total                           54.3        63.1       117.4
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY                     1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
…---- -- US$ Lnillion-------
Annual                       1.4    3.1    6.0    8.0    8.6    1.4
Cumulative                   1.4    4.5   10.5   18.5   27.1   28.5
Economic Rate of Return: 16.52
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 6029-PNG, April 21, 1986.
Map:                       IBRD No. 19385
/a   Includes US$1 million Project Preparation Facility from the Bank, which
will be refinanced from the proposed Bank loan, and US$1 million
equivalent grant from ADAB.
/b   Includes import duties and taxes of about US$1.2 million equivalent.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA FOR A YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) for the equivalent of
US$28.5 million, to help finance a Yonki Hydroelectric Project. The loan will
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
rate. The Government will onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan to the
Electricity Commission (ELCOM) at its applicable rate for power projects (cur-
rently llZ) or at the prevailing Bank rate, whichever is higher, with the same
term and grace period as the proposed Bank loan. ELCOM will assume the
foreign exchange risk. The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of
Japan, and the European Investment Bank (EIB) will cofinance this project,
providing about US$38.0 million and US$16.0 miLlion, respectively. The OECF
funds will be at an annual interest rate of 4% for 30 years, including 10
years grace. The EIE funds will be at 5.8Z interest for 20 years, including 5
years' grace. The Australian Development Assistance Bureau has provided about
US$1.0 million of grant funds for project preparation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNC), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section reflects the findings of
subsequent economic missions and draws upon various country documents and
recent IMF work. A Country Economic Memorandum for Papua New Guinea is now
under preparation. Details of recent economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure and Performance of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of numerous, widely scattered islands,
rugged and sometimes impenetrable mountains, and rich valleys and coastal
plains. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral resources,
and forestry and fishery resourcer of good commercial potential. The capital
city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an enclave, with no
road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest urban settlement
in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita GNP in 1984 was
estimated at US$760. Despite this relatively high figure, Papua New Guinea
remains an e_ceedingly poor country, where the majority of the multitribal
society lives at a level of, or scarcely above, subsistence. The figures for
monetary incomes are biased upwards by the inclusion of the incomes of
expatriates, and thus give a misleading indication of the income level of the
nationals. The population in 1984 is officially estimated at 3.3 million,
spread among 19 provinces (with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000),
each with its own assembly and separate administrative apparatus.



- 2 -
4.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the enclave sector,
particularly copper mining and associated investments, and by the public
sector. In the late 1970s copper, mined by Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL),
accounted for about 15Z of GDP; by 1982 this had fallen to 7.8% as prices
declined sharply and as the more productive veins were being exhausted.
However, new investments in 1982, together with some improvements in copper
and gold prices, stabilized BCL's contribution to CDP in 1983. With declining
ore grades and prices, average performance was considerably lower in 1984-85
(about 5%). Construction of the new Ok Tedi mine generated about 12Z of GDP
in 1983 (largely through capitaL investments representing roughly 45% of PNG's
total investments), thus more than compensating for the decline in BCL. Since
gold production came onstream in June 1984, Ok Tedi's contribution to value-
added in the mining sector has grown to a point where, together with new
copper production, it should reach about 12.5% of GDP in 1987. Nonmining
industry accounts for about 9Z of GDP (low for a country of PNG's per capita
income), while government services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the
upper ranks, account for about one quarter of the total. Strikingly, the pri-
mary sector, which empLoys about 85% of the labor force, contributes only
about 35% of GDP, a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.
5.        PNG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, real per capita growth was negative at -0.2% p.a. despite
the strong growth in copper exports. The latter half of the decade was even
worse in per capita income terms (-0.5% p.a.), despite some good years,
particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the 1970s were
roughly neutral. Between 1980-82, real GDP stagnated, implying a real decline
in per capita income of about 2.4%. The situation stabilized in 1982, as
domestic adjustment policies became effective, and improved significantly in
the second half of 1983 as export prices recovered. As a result, CDP growth
in 1983 reached 12, lower than the 2.3% population growth, but still an
improvement over the earlier years. In these years the deterioration in the
terms of trade did bite as the Government cut back services and capital
investments and restricted the growth in the money supply to protect the
balance of payments and the value of the kina. With the unfavorable terms of
trade effect, gross domestic income has fallen 20% since 1979. On the other
hand, the upturn in the economy gathered momentum in 1984. Real growth
reached 2.2% and is estimated to have reached 6% in 1985, largely because of
the start-up of the Ok Tedi mine. GDP growth is expected to be around 2% in
1986.
6.        PNG's growth performance in recent years has been particularly
vulnerable to swings in international commodity prices that began in 1980.
The price of copper dropped to its lowest level in 30 years, leading to a fall
of K 42 million in budgetary resources derived from BCL between 1981 ar-i 1982
and a further decline of K 19 million in 1983. Although revenue contributions
of BCL recovered somewhat in 1984, they were still substantially below their
1982 level. The prices of agricultural export commodities have fallen by half
since the late 1970s, although the situation improved in i983 and 1984. Lower
export receipts depressed economic activity and reduced imports through 1982.
In 1983 and 1984, however, average export receipts jumped by over 20%, while
average imports rose by 7%. After taking account of the budget support grant
of about US$255 million a year from Australia, the current account deficit in



- 3 -
1983 was US$367 million, or about 16S of CDP. The US$330 million external
current account deficit in 1984, roughly equal to 13Z of GDP, was an improve-
ment over 1983. The current account deficit is estimated to have declined
slightly in 1985 to about US$300 million (12.6Z of GDP). With a high level of
official and private capital flows, the deficits were covered without undue
strain on reserves.
7.        In order to reduce the impact of export price fluctuations on the
economy and on the producers of export crops, the Government has taken a num-
ber of measures. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to
smooth the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabiliza-
tion funds for coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscilla-
tions in prices received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural
products have had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they
have contributed to the stability of the economy. For the most part they have
shielded producers from income declines and, with the exception of the copra
fund, their total resources are still relatively healthy as a result of sub-
stantial levies accumulated in the late 1970s, when export prices were at his-
torical highs.
8.        Between 1972 and 1976, following the establishment of the Minimu
Wage Board, real minimum wages had more than doubled, giving PNG the highest
wage costs of the developing countries in the region. The urban minimum wage
is currently equal to nearly US$50 per week. Since independence from
Australia in 1975, two three-year wage agreements limited the rise of both
public and private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, subject
to an annual maximum of 11.75%, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real
wages that occurred during the 1972-76 period. The wage situation was accom-
panied by a "hard kina" policy causing the kina to appreciate vis-a-vis PNG's
major trading partners, which had the effect of dampening wage demands and
keeping down prices of imports (40% of GDP by value). This tended to offset
somewhat imported inflation, so that the increase in domestic price levels has
averaged'about 7.5% between 1977 and end-1982 as compared with the interna-
tional inflation index of 8.7%.
9.        Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government sought to impose a three-year freeze on urban
wages starting in 1983. The Minimum Wage Board rejected this stringent
approach proposed by the Government, deciding in favor of full indexation of
the first five percentage point change in the CPI, but with no further indexa-
tion. This resulted in an approximate 2.8% and 2.5% erosion in real wages in
1983 and 1984, respectively. The Government also took direct action to
improve the management of the balance of payments through the exchange rate
policy. There was a devaluation of 5.5% in March 1983, and the kina, which
appreciated in real terms by 12% during 1976-82, was allowed to depreciate
thereafter (16% real effective depreciation between 1982-84).
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened revenue position
by raising taxes in 1982 and 1983, lowering government expenditure by 10% in
the latter year, and laying off some 2,000 employees, about 4% of the total
public service. Preliminary estimates indicate that the public account
deficit in 1984 wes about K 25 million (1.1% of GDP), the lowest deficit in



-4-
years. As was the case in 1983, little of this was financed by borrowing from
the Central Bank. Borrowings from foreign comercial banks are estimated at
about US$20 million in 1984, as compared with US$60 million in 1983. The 1985
revised budget estimates show a deficit of K 77 million. However, according
to a recently reached understanding between the Governments of Papua New
Guinea and Australia, the Australian grant to PNG for 1986-1990 will be
reduced by 3Z p.a. in real terms. This is likely to result in further
curtailment of government expenditure in order to contain the budgetary
deficits within manageable limits over the medium term.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.       Since the country's independence in 1975, a concerted effort was
made to define a set of economic and social priorities according to which
government resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more
weight had been given to developing a decision-making process for the budget-
ing of government resources than to the preparation and implementation of a
comprehensive development plan. While a National Development Strategy (NDS)
was defined and strategic objectives identified as the basis for resource
allocation, these had not represented a basis for a growth-oriented develop-
ment strategy as such.
12.       The NDS placed a high priority on improving the quality of life for
the rural population, focusing on rural development in the less developed
areas of the country. While this focus remains, it is now to be set within
the context of a growth-oriented strategy. This objective recognizes not only
the agricultural potential of the country, but also the fact that for quite a
few generations the agricultural sector will be the main source of employment.
13.       For several years, PNG has had a four-year plan known as the
National Public Expenditure Plan. This plan focuses on capital expenditures
for the first year of the (rolling) plan, concentrating on the recurrent costs
of capital projects and the ability of the budget to support them. (This
feature is rare in developing country planning and is expected to be retained
under the new planning system, which is still being worked out.) Currently
the Go'vernment is in the process of revising its planning procedures, par-
tially in response to Bank recommendations, in order to take a somewhat
longer-term view and to eyompass a broader review of both capital and recur-
rent budget requirements.-
14.       The Government's current approach to carrying out its intentions is
to develop a Medium-Term Development Plan (MTDP). This will: (a) review the
current economic situation and forecast how it could be expected to develop
over the next five years (1987-91) based on an appropriate financing strategy;
(b) involve the preparation of medium-term public investment program and its
national allocation among various sectors and agencies; and (c) contain a set
2/ Ref. "Public Sector Management in Papua New Guinea: An Administrative
Overview," June 27, 1983, Report No. 4396-PNG.



of policies and strategies that will make it possible to carry out the public
investment program.
Development Issues
15.       The major factors that will affect the Government's ability to pro-
mote economic development are the decentralization of government activities,
the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial resources,
and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation and invest-
ment in the agricultural sector.
16.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to carry through its set
priorities, while inadequate staffing limits the capabilities of the provinces
to develop their own plans. Decentralization in PNG was a necessary response
to local pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory
and financial control in some areas and will share power with the national
Government in others. They are financed through national government grants
and refunds of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own taxa-
tion measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend according
to their own priorities, are by far the most important source of finance; but,
whereas in the 1984 budget they comprised over 70Z of the total receipts of
the provinces, they amounted to less than 25Z of total national government
revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial governments is
the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most urgent priority of
the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting, planning, and
project identification and preparation.
17.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals, especially consid-
ering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first graduates as
recently as 1972. However, the country still relies heavily on expatriates
for many necessary services. This situation has created a relatively high
cost government. The establishment of provincial governments is adding to the
pressures on existing human and financial resources, and the policy of
localizing positions held by expatriates adds to the demand for trained Papua
New Guineans.
18.       The Government's efforts to attain Einancial seif-reliance are
reflected in the steady growth of the share of domestic revenue in total bud-
getary receipts.  90omestic revenue accounted for only about 36Z of government
receipts in FY68,3 60X of the total in FY76 (immediately after independence),
and 70% in 1985. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine has
been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 182 of the total and
reaching a peak of 27Z in FY76, but falling to about 3X in 1984. While mineral
revenue is likely to have been modestly restored in 1985, when the Ok Tedi
3/   PNG's fiscal year was July 1-June 30 until January 1, 1978 when it was
changed to coincide with the calendar year.



- 6 -
mine became fully operational, revenue from these sources may not regain its
former share of overall revenues.
19.      While economic management has been largely sound, the country's
growth performance has been disappointing. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, the sector's output remains low, and prospects for the coming
decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster growth. The major
constraints have been inadequate extension services for smallholders, lack of
smallholder credit, customary land tenure practices and shortage of managerial
expertise.
External Debt
20.       During the period 1986-1988, PNC is likely to require an average net
capital inflow of about US$330 million p.a. The minerals sector is expected
to finance considerably more than half of the inflow through direct foreign
investment and borrowing: Ok Tedi-related borrowings were US$210 million in
1984. With respect to official borrowings, public debt service ratio, esti-
mated at 13Z in 1984, is expected to grow slowly, and by 1990 would be at
around 18Z. Thus, despite the relatively large current account deficit fore-
cast for 1985, PNG's external position is likely to continue to be comfort-
able. Total external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1984 amounted
to US$1,209 million, of which US$279 million (23%) was owed to the Bank Group.
Debt service payments to the Bank Group are only about 7Z of total debt
service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       As of March 31, 1986, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea con-
sisted of 16 loans and 13 development credits, totaling US$364.4 million. The
first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million approved in
1968; more recently a Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Project (US$27.6 million)
was approved on July 23, 1985, and a Third Agricultural Credit Project
(US$18.8 million) on September 19, 1985. In general, project implementation
has been satisfactory. The first rural development project in the Southern
Highlands experienced some difficulties with recruitment of essential
expatriate staff as the rapid turnover of expatriates and the transitional
problems of recruiting and training their replacements led to delays.
Physical implementation is now approximately on schedule. As of March 31,
1986, 1L credits and 8 loans were fully disbursed, and the loans and credits
to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$336.3 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits.
22.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture, with
strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy. The
Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives: (a) support
for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) development of oppor-
tunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based on the substantial agri-



- 7 -
cultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion of human resource
development. A land evaluation and demarcation project, a second nucleus
estate project, a transport improvement project and a second primary education
project are under preparation.
23.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple preindependence
projects and the fact that they were . aged by an ezperienced ezpatriate
civil service. The disbursement rate - for FY85 was 28.3%, compared to an
average of 30.4Z for FYmI-85. Disbursement rates for selected comparators for
FY81-85 were as follows: Colombia, 27.0Z; Philippines, 22.2Z; Morocco, 16.2Z;
and Benin, 26.2Z. It does not seem possible to determine a trend since low
disbursement years are followed by a high disbursement year, then another low
disbursement year. PNG's disbursement figures reflect periodic disbursements
of substantial amounts against individual large projects rather than steady
disbursements for all projects.
Part III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resource Overview
24.       Papua New Guinea (PNG) is spread over 2,072,000 km2 of tropical seas
north of Australia. The eastern half of the island of New Guinea and three
largest outer islands -  namely, New Britain, New Ireland and Bougainville
comprise most of the land surface of 462,000 km'. The land surface shows
unusual diversity with extremely rugged mountain ranges, wide valleys, large
river systems, extensive jungles, and vast swamps. Although PNG's population
is rather sparse at 3.3 million, the country is relatively well endowed with
energy resources. However, its energy options are severely constrained by the
difficult topography, the geographical fragmentation of the population and the
small size of total domestic energy demand. The most abundant energy resource
is the hydroelectric potential created by the mountainous topography and gen-
erally heavy rainfall, particularly on the Fly, Purari, and Kikori rivers
flowing into the Gulf of Papua and the Musa river flowing into Oro Bay (see
Map IBRD 19385). The total hydropotential is estimated at 14,000-21,000 MW
(or nearly 5 to 7 kW per capita, one of the highest for any country in the
world). However, because of the scattered islands and limited demand in any
4/   The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbursed balance.



- 8 -
one locality, development of Large hydro resources has not been justifiable.51
Existing hydro stations aggregate only 123 KW and most of them are run-of-the-
river power stations with little firm energy potential.
25.       Substantial exploration work has been done in the oil and gas sub-
sector in the past 50 years. Moderate size gas discoveries have been made,
both on-shore and offshore, with gas reserves conservatively estimated at 1.5-
5.0 TCF and condensates at over 60 million barrels. However, considering the
large area underlain by sedimentary rocks with potential for petroleum and
natural gas, past exploration has been quite modest and these hydrocarbon
resources are essentially unevaluated. In order to accelerate petroleum
exploration in PNG, a Bank-financed Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance
Project started in 1982. This proje-t has already resulted in bids for explo-
ration of 14 blocks in the Papuan Basin. PNG's extensive forests provide a
significant biomass potential. These forests cover nearly 33 million ha and
less than 10X are being exploited for logging operations. The country has
surface manifestation of geothermal energy. Coal occurrences have been
reported in Gulf Province and near Lae. These have generally been small
deposits of low grade coal with seams dipping at moderate angles. The
country's resource base provides a wide variety of long-term options for its
energy planners.
Energy Consumption
26.       Traditional fuels (wood, charcoal and crop residues) are the main
sources of energy for the rural population (approximately 86Z of PNG's total
population), accounting for about 37% of total energy consumption, equivalent
to about 1.2 tons p.a. In most of the rural areas, fuelwood is likely to
continue to be used for housebold cooking, and the demand for this purpose may
be expected to grow at the same rate as the population.
27.       In 1984, PNG imported about 674,500 tons of petroleum products,
representing about 90Z of commercial energy consumption in PNG. During the
period 1976-84, overall consumption increased by an average of 4.4Z annually;
the increase was particularly high for diesel oil (8.2%) as a result of
(a) increased thermal power generation; and (b) a shift from gasoline to
diesel oil in the transportation sector. On the other hand, consumption of
fuel oil and gasoline increased at a slower rate (1.5% and 0.2% p.a., respec-
tively). The energy sector of PNG has developed alongside the various
enclaves. The major enclave is Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL), which is on
Bougainville Island separated from the country's major demand cencers, and
which accounted for almost 37% of total consumption of petroleum products in
5/  One difficulty in planning hydro development is the lack of stream
gauging records for all except the largest rivers. The joint UNDP/World
Bank Energy Assessment Program in PNG has recommended that action be
taken to introduce new gauging stations on small rivers throughout the
country. As of 1983, expanded efforts in conducting an inventory of
mini-hydro resources were being pursued, with assistance from the New
Zealand Government.



-9-
1984 (250,000 tons). Most of this fuel was residual fuel oil used for power
generation.
28.       Electricity consumption in 1984 was approximately 1,200 GWh.  The
per capita consumption of electricity in PNC is about 387 kWh (1984); this is
very low compared to 487 kWh (1982) in Fiji, 405 kWh (1182) in the Philippines
and 764 kWh (1982) in Malaysia. With only 34,200 domestic connections cur-
rently, less than 7% of PNG's population has access to electric power.
The Power Subsector
29.       At the end of 1984, the total installed capacity of the power sub-
sector in PNG was about 467 MW, of which about 26% (123 MW) was hydroelectric
and 74% (344 MW) was diesel. The scattered smaller i3lands and the extremely
rugged (in some places inaccessible) mountain ranges on the main island
preclude any possibility of a fully integrated power system. At present, the
public electricity supply in PNG consists of 19 independent power systems
serving 25 urban centers scattered throughout the country.
30.       The Electricity Comission of Papua New Guinea (ELCOM) is
responsible for public electricity supply throughout the country. ELCOM
reports directly to the Minister of Minerals and Energy, and is organized as a
commercial Statutory Authority whose policies are formulated by a Board of
Commissioners. The bulk of public power supply is provided by ELCOM, which
had a total installed capacity of about 195 NW, consisting of about 117 MW of
hydro (60%) and 78 MW of thermal (401), within its own system at the end of
the 1984 (ELCOM's share represented about 42% of the total instalLed capacity
in the country). ELCOM also operates and maintains a number of small
facilities (totalling about 7 MW) for which the Government retains ownership
and financial responsibility. The installed capacity of facilities owned by
other private sector entities is about 267 MW.
ELCOM's Power Market
31.       ELCOM's operations are conducted from 25 load center facilities
which supplied 421 GWh to about 43,000 consumers in 1984. Of this total con-
sumption, 121 GWh were for domestic use and the balance was for commercial/
industrial consumption. Consumption of electricity supplied by ELCOM
increased by 9.1% p.a. between 1974 and 1979, but this rate has slowed during
1979-84, when it averaged only 2.1% p.a. The major reasons for the dro.- were
(a) an unreliable power supply caused by poor maintenance during the late
1970s and early 1980s; (b) high tariffs caused by rising fuel prices and dry
weather conditions; and (c) the economic recession.
32.       The largest load centers are served through three independent sys-
tems, which, although modest in size, are integrated networks: (i) the Port
Moresby System serving the National Capital District (City of Port Moresby) as
well as surrounding towns in Central Province; (ii) the Ramu System serving
Lae, Madang, and the Highlands region; and (iii) the Gazelle Peninsula System
serving the Rabaul, Kereuat and Kokopo areas in East New Britain Province.
The Port Moresby and Ramu Systems alone account for more than 752 of the power
generated by ELCOM, with the balance shared by the Gazelle Peninsula System



- 10 -
and the many isolated generating facilities usually serving single locali-
ties. The distance between the Port Moresby and Ramu grid. (on the order of
420 km), and the relatively small magnitude of their demands and rates of
growth, have necessitated their continued isolation through the 1970s and
1980s, but integration of the resources within the two largest grids through a
unified high voltage system is a future ELCOM objective.
ELCOM's Power Development Plan
33.       ELCOM's generation expansion plan, 1985-1995, includes ongoing works
totaling 26.7 MW, and new projects of 140 MW capacity (including the proposed
Yonki Hydroelectric Project). The major transmission system expansion plan
involves the reinforcement of the existing Ramu and Port Moresby networks to
cope with the increasing load requirements and to improve system reliability;
and the Ramu-Port Moresby interconnection. The cost of the expansion plan
(excluding irterest during construction) is estimated at about US$298.8
million for ..ie period 1985-1995.  Of that total, US$183.7 million represents
foreign costs and US$115.1 million represents local costs.
Subsector Policy and Strategy
34.       The fundamental objectives underlying ELCOM's strategy for electric-
power development are as follow:
(a) meeting the increasing demand for public electricity supply in the
country;
(b) utilizing indigenous natural resources, especially firm hydropower,
to reduce the dependence on costly oil imports;
(c) providing less costly power to industrial, commercial, rural and
domestic consumers;
(d) rationalizing power production and distribution through the expan-
sion of the high-voltage transmission grid; and
(e) recruiting, developing, compensating and maintaining a workforce
capable of sustained performance at internationally acceptable
standards for the electric power industry, and, comprised to the
greatest extent possible, of nationals of PNG.
Bank Participation In The Subsector
35.       During FY71 and FY74 the Bank made 2 loans (now fully disbursed) to
ELCOM totalling $34 million to help finance a hydroelectric power plant and
related training. The First Power Project (Loan 737-PNG) financed the first
stage of the Upper Ramu Hydroelectric Development Scheme (Ramu 1). Completion
of the project was delayed by about nine months. A cost overrun of about 29%
was incurred, primarily because of currency flutuations. A Project Completion
Report (No. 1687) dated October 1979 was prepared. The lessons learned
included: (i) detailed project preparation, particularly extensive explora-
tory drilling, contributed towards successful implementation of the project;



- 11 -
and (ii) training programs helped further the policy of employing national
staff. The Second Power Project (Loan 999-PNG) consisted of (a) technical
assistance for ELCOM's in-service training program during the period 1974
through 1979; (b) financing of the shortfall in funds for meeting the foreign
expenditures for the Ramu I project; and (c) distribution system expansion.
The project was executed as planned. The objectives of the project have
largely been met. The project was completed on schedule and at the estimated
cost. A Project Completion Report (No. 3912) dated April 1982 was prepared.
An important lesson learned from this project is that localization, especially
of senior management, should be implemented after a much longer period of in-
service training, and expatriate support should be maintained until local
counterparts have gained adequate experience. The Bank's involvement in the
power subsector is still highly desirable.
Enerny Sector Problems and Policies
36.       Although PNG is well endowed with potential energy resources, all
its commercial energy needs are currently met through imported petroleum pro-
ducts and, to a limited extent, hydropower generation. The 1984 oil imports
were estimated at US$159 million (CIF), representing more than 7% of GNP and
more than 10% of export revenue. Without major efforts by the Government to
reduce this dependence, energy imports will eventually impose an severe burden
on the economy. The Government established the Energy Planning Unit (EPU) of
the Ministry of Minerals and Energy (MME) for assisting it in its efforts to
diversify sources of energy. EPU has emphasized the role of renewable resour-
ces for alleviating PNG's energy problems. These include, in particular,
ethanol for the transport sector, wood pyrolysis for the industrial sector and
solar water heating and photovoltaics for households. More conventional areas
of activity tended to be neglected and energy planning did not advance signi-
ficantly. The Government has requested technical assistance in developing a
strategy to improve the current situation by identifying a reliable and least
cost supply option. During the past three years, with joint UNDP/World Bank
assistance, EPU began to place more emphasis on the electricity subsector,
where 42% of petroleum products are used, and where some options are available
to substitute for the oil used in power generation. Work has begun on compre-
hensive energy studies and planning, aiming at organizing and accelerating the
oil and gas exploration effort, and the rational development of other indige-
nous energy resources. Efforts to optimize the power expansion program based
on the least cost development plan are also underway.
37.       While progress hag been made in strengthening the sector's policy
and technical capabilities, the pace of this development has been slow and
further action is required. MME has traditionally focused on hard-rock
minerals (so far, mostly copper and gold), am these contribute substantially
to the Government's revenue earnings. PNG's commercial energy needs are
mainly met through imported petroleum products. However, the energy sector is
now in transition, with the Government encouraging the development of the
country's vast hydroelectric potential and its natural gas and oil, all of
which could play a pivotal role in PNG's energy future. The rate at which PNG
can respond to, and therefore benefit from, these changes depends largely on
the flexibility and dynamism of its policy level institution in directing and
controlling energy sector activity aimed at implementing these new policies.



- 12 -
Institutional strengthening in the areas of planning, implementation, and
system operation is therefore a high priority which should be addressed in the
context of major development projects in the sector.
38.       The scant domestic utilization of electricity, particularly in rural
areas, indicates that rural electrification is a sectoral issue which needs
addressing. Development of the country's rich agricultural and resource
potential depends directly on efforts to enhance the capability of larger seg-
ments of PNC's population to exploit those resources; achieving a greater
penetration of electricity into the rural areas, especially the Highlands, is
essential to these efforts. However, because of the sparse population and
difficult terrain, most rural electrification projects are prohibitively
expensive. Consequently, the Government of PUG will need to develop policies
and standards for investment in rural electrification. At negotiations it was
agreed that ELCON, as the principal beneficiary of a consistent and clear
rural electrification policy, will (i) by January 1, 1987, appoint consultants
according to terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the
Bank to carry out a study to develop policy parameters and an institutional
framework for enabling investments in rural electrification; (ii) by March 31,
1988, complete the study and discuss with the Bank the preliminary findings;
and (iii) implement mutually agreed recommendations according to a schedule
acceptable to the Bank. Completion of the study and agreement between the
Bank and ELCOM concerning which recommendations would be implemented is a
condition of disbursement for the rural electrification pilot component.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was prepared by ELCON with the assistance of consultants
financed by US$1.0 million from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
and about US$1.0 million from the Australian Development Assistaace Bureau
(ADAB). The project was identified in March 1984 and appraised in September
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from March 31 to April 4, 1986,
with a delegation headed by Mr. Robert Kaul, First Assistant Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6029-PNG,
dated April 21, 1986) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
40.       The proposed project supports a major hydroelectric power develop-
ment which would reduce ELCOH's dependence on costly imported oil and replace
it with indigenous hydro resources. The proposed project would also further
several other objectives of the Borrower insofar as it will include:
(a) adequate training and institutional support to assist ELCOM's development
of its local staff resources; (b) development of an institutional and policy
framework for future rural electrification efforts; and (c) cofinancing.



- 13 -
Project Description
41.       The project comprises:
(a) construction of a 60 m high dam, a spillway system and outlet struc-
ture, and associated works;
(b) installation of two additional 15 MW generating units together with
step-up transformers at the existing downstream Ramu I run-of-the
river power station;
(c) relocation of a part of the Highlands Highway and local access road;
(d) engineering and consulting services;
(e) a training program;
(f) tecnnical assistance for institutional support; and
(e) a rural electrification component.
Project Management and Implementation
42.       ELCOM is the implementing agency for the proposed project.  The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ELCOM is a
condition of effectiveness. During construction ELCOM will be assisted by the
Consultant Engineer. An Engineering Review Board would also inspect the site
from time to time throughout the construction period of the proposed
project. A construction unit to coordinate project implementation and
supervise construction has been organized by ELCON's management. The manager
of the construction unit and other key staff have already been appointed.
Support staff will be organized for coordination with the staff at the site,
the engineering consultants and the various groups concerned with land,
ecological and sociological issues; and also for recording project costs and
preparing progress reports. The proposed establishment and staffing of the
project implementation unit is setisfactory to the Bank. The Yonki township
has been well maintained and will serve as the headquarters for ELCOM's
construction supervision unit.
43.       The feasibility studies for the proposed project were carried out by
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation of Australia (SMEC). The tender docu-
ments and the civil works prequalification evaluation report prepared by SMEC
were reviewed in detail by the Bank. Tenders for the main civil works were
opened in March 1986 and the contract will be awarded by August 1986,
immediately after loan approval. Tenders for the electromechanical contract
were invited in earLy 1986 and will be awarded by late 1986. Construction
supervision and management would be carried out by an ELCOM construction unit,
with the assistance of SMEC (as the Consulting Engineer). Once constructed,
the new facilities would remain under the ownership of ELCON, which would
retain ultimate responsibility for their operation and maintenance.



- 14 -
44.       The main civil works construction will start in November 1986 and be
sufficiently completed before March 1990 to allow maximum storage before the
wet season ends. Commissioning of the two additional generating units at
Ramu I is scheduled for May and September 1990, respectively. The project
completion date is December 31, 1990. The closing date of the proposed Bank
loan would be December 31, 1991, which would allow adequate time for payment
of retention money.
45.       ELCOM will retain consultants under Lerms satisfactory to the Bank
for the impl'2mentation of the institutional development technical assistance
and the rurpi electrification study, and for supervision of construction of
the proposed project. ELCOM estimates needing 790 man-months of consulting
and training services for the training program (80 man-months), job classifi-
cation study (24 man-months), development of standard operating procedures
(50 man-months), technical audit (18 man-months), rural electrification study
(18 man-months) and construction supervision (600 man-months).
Cost Estimates
46.       The total project cost is estimated at US$117.4 million (including
interest during construction), of which US$63.1 million is foreign cost and
US$54.3 million, local cost. Project costs include the refinancing of
US$1.0 million from the Bank's PPF and the ADAB grant of about US$1.0 mil-
lion. The cost estimate is based on end-1985 price levels. Unit rates for
civil works were estimated on the basis of current prices in PNG for equip-
ment, materials and labor. Prices tendered for construction projects in the
Highlands of PNG and in some cases prices tendered for construction projects
in Malaysia were also taken into consideration. Cost estimates for the supply
and erection of electrical and mechanical plant have been developed from
prices for recently awarded contracts for similar equipment. Physical
contingencies include an overall contingency of 15Z for civil works, and 10%
for electrical and mechanical equipment, rural electrification, technical
assistance and training. The price contingencies for all foreign and local
costs were estimated on the basis of assumed annual rates of escalation of 7%
for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5% there-
after.
Financing Plan
47.       The Government of PNG has agreed, in principle, to cofinancing
arrangements whereby the Bank would provide about US$28.5 million (25% of the
total financing requirements excluding duties and taxes), the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan about US$38.0 million, and the
European Investment Bank (EIB) about US$16.0 million. The foreign costs of
the project would be met as follows: (i) US$15.8 million from the proposed
Bank loan, which would cover 25% of total foreign costs; (ii) about
US$26.8 million from the OECF loan; (iii) about US$9.0 million from the
EIB loan; (iv) about US$1.0 million from the ADAB grant; and (v) about
US$10.5 million from internal cash generation. About US$30.9 million from the
balance of the EIB, OECF and Bank loans will cover a portion of the local
costs. ELCOM is expected to finance US$33.9 million of the total project cost
from internal cash generation, specifically including all of the local costs
associated with training. Ninety-eight percent of the total cost (excluding



- 15 -
duties and taxes) of the main civil works is expected to be financed jointly
by the three cofinanciers. The foreign costs of engineering and consulting
services for construction management, training, technical assistance for
manpower development and rural electrification will be financed solely by the
Bank. OECF would finance on a parallel basis the electrical and mechanical
eqyipment. An Administration Agreement will be executed by the Borrower and
the three cofinanciers. Cross-effectiveness of the cofinancing agreements is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Procurement
48.       The proposed project will include one major contract for the main
civil works and one electrical and mechanical equipment contract. The main
civil works, being financed jointly by the three cofinanciers, will be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's procurement guidelines. Materials and equipment for training and
rural electrification, being financed by the Bank's loan, would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured in accordance with the Bank's
limited international bidding procedures. Margins of preference to domestic
manufacturers would not apply in this case because the equipment and materials
required for the proposed project are not produced locally. Minor items of
equipment, not exceeding US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.0 million, could be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures or on the basis of international and local shopping, based on com-
paring price quotations from at least three qualified foreign or local
suppliers to ensure competitive prices. The electromechanical equipment,
financed exclusively by OECF, will be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with OECF procurement guidelines. Engineering and con-
sulting services financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. Contracts over US$100,000 would be reviewed by the Bank
prior to issuance. Procurement arrangements of goods and services are shown
in the table below:



- 16 -
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT - PROCUREMENT ARRhNCEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method            Total
Project element                         ICB         Other               cost
Civil works                            48.5             -              68.5
(10.0) /a                       (10.0)
Electrical and mechanical                -             9.7              9.7
Engineering and consulting               -           10.9              10.9
(8.9)            (8.9)
Construction related establishment
expenses                            -             7.0              7.0
Training                                 -            18.9             18.9
(6.6)            (6.6)
Rural electrification                    -             4.6              4.6
(3.0)            (3.0)
Total                             48.5          51.1              99.6
(10.0)        (18.5)            (28.5)
La   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed Bank loan.
Disbursement
49.       Disbursements for the civil works would cover 98Z of total expendi-
tures and would be prorated among the three cofinanciers. For the engineering
and consultancy services, the Bank loan would be disbursed against 100Z of the
total cost. For other technical assistance, the Bank loan would be disbursed
against 1002 of the foreign exchange cost. For materials and equipment for
training and rural electrification, the Bank loan wouLd be disbursed against
100l of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported materials and
equipment; and 852 of total expenditures for imported equipment procured
locally off-the-shelf. For minor items of materials and equipment financed by
the Bank, not exceeding US$100,000 per contract, a Statement of Expenditure
prepared and certified by ELCOM constitutes acceptable documentation for
disbursement purposes. The US$1.0 million advance from the Dank's PPF plus
accrued charges will be refinanced through the loan. Disbursements will be
made over a period of siz years; comparison was made with Bankwide disburse-
ment profiles for hydroelectric projects.



- 17 -
Institutional Development and Training
50.       To correct past tendencies to carry ezcessive numbers of semiskilled
and unskilled staff, ELCOM has put in effect a recruitment freeze and is
developing a program for reducing its staff. Including 293 temporary appoint-
ments who are not counted as staff, ELCON had a total of 2,141 employees as of
August 31, 1985. While this aggregate number may appear ample for ELCON's
size and scope, it belies shortages of certain categories of professionals,
most particularly engineers and supervisors. Moreover, if ELCON expands as
rapidly as it is projecting, it will need substantially more than its present
complement of manpower. At the same time, ELCOM's establishment provides for
too many different categories of staff; and, too often, the level of skills,
knowledge, and qualifications varies greatly between different jobs within the
same category. To make its efforts at manpower planning, development and
training more effective, ELCOM will implement a Job Standardization Study
under the proposed project. At negotiations, ELCOM agreed to: (a) retain, by
January 1, 1987, consultants according to terms of reference and selection
procedure acceptable to the Bank, to conduct this study; (b) complete the
study and discuss with the Bank by December 31, 1987; and (c) implement
mutually agreed recommendations.
51.       As of August .31, 1985, ELCOM employed about 126 expatriates.  Most
expatriates occupy positions in or serve as advisors to top management of
their departments, bringing to ELCOM levels of expertise which are largeLy
unavailable among PNC nationals. The Government of PNG, concerned about the
increasing cost to the economy and the related capital outflows associated
with maintaining the large overall number of expatriates in PIG, has a policy
of localizing as rapidly as prudently possible the staffs of most large
government establishments. While ELCOM ultimately needs to reduce substan-
tially its reliance on expatriates, it should not do so prematurely and
abruptly. Instead, ELOOM should try to accomplish a phased replacement of
expatriates by suitably trained national officers, through provision by the
expatriates of technology transfer and special on-the-job training to care-
fully selected local personnel. The proposed Bank loan would support this
objective through the provision of a fund of about US$1.2 million, which would
be applied to financing some or all of the foreign exchange portion of
compensation for qualified expatriate senior- and middle-level managers and
advisors, between January 1, 1987 and December 31, 1989.  Pioceeds of this
fund could be used only if ELCOM would invest an equal amount of local
currency from its own revenues in other expenditures incurred on behalf of the
proposed project. ELCOM could not use this allocation to increase the
compensation of any expatriate; therefore, none of the expenditures to be
defrayed through this fund would be incremental. Details of the fund's
operation were discussed at negotiations and ELCOM agreed to advise the Bank
prior to making any major organizational changes.
52.       ELCOM has, for years, placed a high priority on formal training.  It
has built and equipped a complete training college at its headquarters,
provided some training facilities at several of its larger field offices, and
employed numerous expatriate training specialists. Despite these substantial
inputs, the results of ELCOM's training efforts during the recent past has
been disappointing because (a) the training staff emphasized academic and



- 18 -
general training rather than the specific skills and knowledge needed for
specific jobs, and (b) line managers were not sufficiently involved in
training and its aftermath to ensure that trainees used the concepts and
techniques covered in their courses to improve job performance. Through
administration of the fund for compensating expatriates (para. 51), ELCOM will
redirect the attention of line managers toward manpower development and the
necessary direct linkages between formal training, improved job performance,
and greater devolution of responsibility. In addition, the proposed project
provides for new training inputs which are appropriate to ELCOM's training
needs, including (a) retaining, for a period of two years each, three
specialists with specific experience in organizing electric utility training
programs and procedures; (b) upgrading existing facilities and providing new
equipment specifically related to training in operation and maintenance of
power system plant and equipment; and (c) providing overseas fellowships to
selected PNG nationals among ELCOM's senior staff.
53.       ELCOM is increasingly handicapped by a lack of standardization in
its technical functions. By standardizing its designs, materials and work
methods for localized construction of distribution and transmission lines,
ELCOM could realize savings from maximizing the use of locally available
materials and increasing the levels of individual productivity. By
standardizing operations and maintenance procedures, ELCOM could substantially
increase the productivity of its staff and improve the effectiveness of
training. The proposed project provides for technical assistance aimed at
increasing the standardization of ELCOM's technical functions and developing
manuals for Standard Operating Procedures. At negotiations, ELCOM agreed
i) by January 1, 1987, to retain consultants, according to terms of reference
and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank, to standardize ELCOM's
technical functions and operating procedures; (ii) by December 31, 1987, to
complete and discuss with the Bank, the consultants' findings; and (iii) to
implement mutually agreed recommendations according to a schedule acceptable
to the Bank.
54.       Once job categories have been defined clearly and activities have
been standardized to the degree practicable, ELCOM wilL need to assess the
range of its engineering activities in the light of resources available to it,
to determine which of those activities should remain under its direct
responsibility and which may be entrusted to consultants. In addressing those
responsibilities it wishes to retain, it should identify the resources
required, and the financial and training inputs needed to develop those
resources. To this end, the proposed project provides for a technical
audit. At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that it will, (i) by June 30, 1988,
retain consultants, according to terms of reference and a selection procedure
acceptable to the Bank, to conduct a technical audit; (ii) complete and
discuss the audit with the Bank by January 31, 1989; and (iii) implement
mutually agreed recommendations according to a schedule agreeable to the Bank.
Financial Management Practices
55.       With the help of technical assistance, ELCOM has been systematically
upgrading its financial management practices. A management information system
currently being introduced will complete the automation of ELCOM's account-



- 19 -
ing. The internal audit function is being upgraded to highly sophisticated
levels. The quality of external audit in PNG is satisfactory. At negotia-
tions, ELCOM agreed to furnish audited annual financial :tatements to the Bank
within six months of the end of each financial year.
56.       During the recent past, ELCOM's collection of accounts receivable
has lagged its own targets. Net accounts receivable have represented 59 days'
sales in 1983 and 53 days' sales in 1984. About 80Z of ELCOM's revenues are
from the private sector and collection of these revenues has been averaging
45 days; the remaining 20% of revenues accruing from the public sector has
been requiring between 85 and 90 days for collection. ELCOM is developing a
program to reduce accounts receivable to less than 45 days' sales by 1986
by: (a) increasing the frequency of meter readings for private sector
consumers and (b) adjusting some of the billing procedures for public sector
consumers. In the period 1981-1983, ELCOM partly financed its working capital
requirements by stretching accounts payable and by raising short term
liquidity borrowings. ELCOM is taking steps to reduce the accounts receivable
turnover to 45 days and to maintain accounts payable (net of accrued interest)
at the aggregate of (a) one and one half month's construction expenses and
(b) one and one half month's cash operating expenses. At negotiations, an
understanding was reached with ELCOM that it would meet these targets.
57.       ELCOM currently accounts for its fixed assets on an historical cost
basis. With inflation averaging 7% per year over the recent past, the use of
historical cost substantially understates the value of ELCG.'s plant and
equipment. Revaluation of assets is an accepted accounting practice in PNG
and ELCOM plans to use consultants, currently on retainer, to develop a
methodology and conduct a revaluation of its fixed assets prior to June 1986.
If the revaluation is satisfactory to the Auditor General of PNG, it would be
incorporated into ELCOM's annual accounts; otherwise, ELCOM would maintain
these records in memorandum form. At negotiations, an understanding was
reached with ELCOH that, beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31,
1986, it will conduct, according to a methodology acceptable to the Bank, an
annual revaluation of its assets, either in its books of accounts or in
memorandum form. At appraisal, an approximate revaluation was attempted; this
effort indicated that the replacement value of ELCOM's gross fixed assets in
operation is likely to be greater than historical cost by about 100%.
Financial Performance and Projections
58.       ELCOM's financial performance in recent years has varied inter alia
with the weather. In 1984, when rains were bountifuL, ELCOM was able to meet
more than 80% of its demand with hydro power. Profitability was high and
ELCOM was even able to reduce its tariff by about 16%. In contrast, 1981 and
1983 (to a lesser degree) were dry years, during which ELCOM needed to rely
heavily on costly diesel generation for supplying its base load, and to
increase its tariff substantially to cover the cost associated with having to
rely more heavily than normal on thermal generation. In recent years, ELCOM
has adopted as its financial performance target for a normal hydrological year
a rate of return of 10% on historically valued assets. In managing its
finances to meet this target, ELCOM has usually also been able to self-finance
an average of about 40X of its annual investment program. In order to enhance



- 20 -
general revenue, the Government of PNG made ELCOM liable for income taxes,
assessed at 35% of taxable income, in 1983; and imposed on ELCOM the
expectation of a regular dividend, currently 19Z of iacome after taxes, begin-
ning in 1984. During the recent past, ELCOM's balance sheet has remained con-
sistently strong, except for its working capital position. Debt has averaged
only about 46% of capitalization. Although liquidity has sometimes been con-
strained, ELCOM has enjoyed substantial overdraft privileges and easy access
to short-term lines of credit. In any case, debt service coverage has
averaged 3.0 and has exceeded 1.5 even in 1981, ELCOM's most difficult year.
59.       The tariff provides ELCOM with average revenues of about 13.7 toea
per kWh. According to a recent joi.a. UNDP/Bank study, this average would
provide revenue similar to a marginal cost based tariff. Currently, indus-
trial consumers are modestly cross-subsidizing all other consumers, while
consumers in Port Moresby, PNG's on-ly substantial urban concentration, are
cross-subsidizing consumers elsewhere in the country. These cross-subsidies
for smaller consumers are acceptable in view of the relatively high price of
electricity and the modest income levels prevalent in PNG.
60.       ELCOM's financial performance, as indicated by its rate of return,is
somewhat lower than would be expected, given that tariff revenues are similar
to those that would be generated by a marginal cost based tariff. This is
attributable primarily to the low density of consumers, which in the past has
prevented ELCOM from taking advantage of economies of scale. While ELCOM's
major new investments are intended to replace costly diesel generation with
capital-intensive hydra generation, the investment program's overall cost is
lower than the capital and recurrent costs associated with existing gener-
ation, transmission and distribution facilities. Thus, the anomaly of a
tariff, which is producing revenues similar to long run marginal cost and also
achieving modest financial performance, is expected to continue into the late
1990s. The modest financial results are acceptable to the Bank primarily
because they are based on the assumption that, due to the low penetration of
electricity into the PNG market, a tariff which exceeds long run marginal cost
would give improper signals to the consumers.
61.       ELCOM is expecting to implement an extremely ambitious investment
program during the period, 1986-1991. The proposed project (including associ-
ated capitalized interest), which alone would increase ELCOM's historically
valued gross fixed assets in operation by 57%, accounts for only about 24% of
ELCOM's planned investment. After allowing for payment of taxes and divi-
dends, ELCOM plans to finance about 36% of its investment program from tariff
revenues. Official loans will finance the residual of the proposed project.
The Government of PNG has a policy of onlending all official international
loans (including proceeds of loans from the Bank, OECF, EIB, ADB and uther
development agencies) to ELCOM for 20 years, including 5 years of grace on
repayment of principal, at the higher of the standard rate for onlending to
Commercial Statutory Authorities or the rate the Government actually pays for
the funds. Currently, the standard onlending rate for Commercial Statutory
Authorities is 11%. ELCOM bears the full foreign exchange risk associated
with its official borrowings! however, the Government guarantees repayment to
the lending institution. At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would
onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to ELCOM for 20 years, including



- 21 -
5 years of grace on repayment of principal, at an interest rate representing
the higher of its standard rate for onlending to Commercial Statutory
Authorities or the prevailing Bank rate. ELCOM intends to secure the balance
of needed investment financing for the 1986-91 period from commerciaL lenders,
either locally or abroad.
62.       During the period 1985-1994, ELCOM's historically valued rate base
is expected to grow by about 307Z (or 15 compounded annually). Because a
significant proportion of the new generating capacity will be used to replace
costly diesel generation with lower-cost hydro generation, power sales are
expected to increase only by about 100% (or 7.2% compounded annually) and
operating revenues are expected to increase only by 207% (or about 11.9%
compounded annually). During the projection period, ELCOM's tariff is
expected to increase by 53% (or about 4.4% compounded annually). Based on the
assumption of normal hydrological years, ELCOM is expected to remain in sound
financial health. ELCOM's past performance indicates that it has been quick
to adjust its tariff to variations in weather and that its access to liquidity
borrowings is adequate to overcome the cash constraints of dry years. During
the projection period, ELCOM expects to self-finance an average of about 33%
of its annual investment program. It expects to realize an average annual
rate of return, computed after income tax and before interest and dividends,
on historically valued assets of 10.51. To ensure that these satisfactory
levels of financial performance are attained, at negotiations ELCOM agreed
that it will realize revenues sufficient to meet its cash operating expenses,
all debt service, income taxes, dividends payable and 30% of its average
annual investment program. In addition, ELCOM agreed that it would incur
additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
for each year during the term of debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5
times ELCOM's debt service requirements. Compliance with these arrangements
implies that ELCOM's anticipated tariff will continue to provide revenues
similar to a marginal cost based tariff.
Ecology
63.       From 1984-1985, ELCOM engaged Cameron McNamera Kramer of PNG (con-
sulting engineers) to carry out an Environmental Assessment of the Yonki
reservoir area. All ecological aspects have been fully considered. The
reservoir area has no mineral resources, forests, or fishery resources of
significant economic value. The assessment was reviewed and endorsed in prin-
ciple by the Department of Environment and Conservation. No significant
environmental problems are expected to arise as a result of the projec 's
construction. The proposed reservoir will inundate an area of 21.5 km of
land. Environmental aspects of the project have received serious and timely
consideration and been simplified considerably by the circumstance that ELCOM
purchased the land for the reservoir area in the early 1970s when the Ramu I
project was begun. Since purchasing the land, ELCOM has leased it to resi-
dents of the vicinity for cattie grazing and coffee production. No settle-
ments are located within the reservoir area. ELCOM has already prepared a
three-year program for closing the cattle ranch. This program would begin
with project construction. Since implementation of the environmental plan
depends largely on cooperation among different groups and agencies, ELCOM's
Board has created a small interagency Environmental Unit and initiated a



- 22 -
comprehensive plan for the socioeconomic development of the area surrounding
the Yonki reservoir. Assessment of the rate at which sediment would
accumulate within the Yonki reservoir shows that the sedimentation is not a
serious problem.
Benefits and Risks
64.       The importation of oil imposes a heavy burden on the country's
economy. Since most of the existing hydroelectric stations are run-of-the-
river, they depend on substantial oil-based thermal support. The proposed
project would support a major hydroelectric power development which would
reduce PNG's dependence on costly imported oil insofar as ELCOM's operations
are concerned, and replace it with indigenous hydro resources.
65.       The numerous studies of potential hydroelectric developments to
serve the Port Moresby and Ramu Systems undertaken over the past ten years
have shown construction of the Yonki hydro project by 1990 to be a vital part
of the least cost development plan for both the separate development of the
Ramu system and the interconnected system. The proposed Yonki Hydroelectric
Project will increase firm energy of Ramu I from the existing 126 GWh to 418
GWh per year. Further indirect benefits of the proposed project include the
elimination of the severe turbine erosion presently occurring from the Ramu
River silt load; the utilization of facilities previously constructed in the
Ramu 1 Power Station; the general economic development of the immediate area
with service industries, agriculture projects and tourism; and the dry season
irrigation potential which could become available below the Ramu Gorge. The
proposed project also facilitates some further hydroelectric developments of
the Ramu Gorge below the Ramu 1 Power Station. These developments provide
highly economic power for the country's long-term plans for indigenous
resource exploitation.
66.       The proposed Yonki Hydroelectric Project is subject to risks
normally associated with civil works in difficult terrain and heavy wet season
rain. ELCOM has decided to use conduits for river diversion in order to avoid
possible problems with the difficult ground through which diversion tunnels
would have to be driven. Most of the designed embankment will rest on a
foundation of competent conglomerates. There is no danger of significant
landslides occurring either at the dam site during or after construction, or
around the reservoir perimeter after filling. ELCOM has endeavored to
minimize the project risks during construction, particularly with respect to
the treatment of the embankment foundation. A grout curtain has been designed
to fill cavities in the congolomerates with cement and pos:;bie sand lenses
with chemical grout. The design is satisfactory. ELCOM has relied heavily on
the services of the Engineering Review Board, whose advice will be sought
should any unusual technical problem arise in connection with the construction
of the embankment dam. ELCOM has also acted promptly in preparing to upgrade
the operating voltage for the transmission lines to 132 Kv in readiness for
the commissioning of the power station.
67.       At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that, after completion of construc-
tion, it will conduct periodic inspections, to be performed by independent
engineering experts acceptable to the Bank, of the dam and associated works.



- 23 -
ELCOM also agreed that it would propose to the Bank, not later than one year
before the expected completion of the main civil works, appropriate arrange-
ments for conducting such inspections. These inspections would determine any
deficiencies in the condition of the aforementioned structures, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or method of operation of these
facilities, which may endanger their safety.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Kay 21, 1986
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
LLLLA.L                                        PaRe I of 6
*Iss        1970k  uINaU U T* a                 1c          LAT. M         CU
au (13a   me u
Wm1*                                 4l.7       "la.7       4617 my
,,eiligam                             327    ..    .          4.* ..
m   m  owm  CM)                            76080            ~~~~~~~~~1011.1           3111.9
(MOMNS OF OUL W"UJII)                3*tA       IIA0        2.0                56.4                     993.6
menL nm                                            -
izuomaim  on.  utv           )     t on.0      ua.o        .320.0   /h            .9.
WA3   9 n   e2W (01 o WMU)            2.7         OA         1.l               33.9                      67.7
nn eu.      3  W  2n o  (NELL)                              4..
UoEAI IOPIAI    (11.                                        9.0
VOIUILSIO  UIm0                                             1.9.
901914110  OLMBI
II sq. 36.                          4.2         5.2         6.9             236.9                      4.
M3  SQ. UM. MU3. LAM              520.8       555.9       051.7             1591.2                     91.1
0-14, 133                         40OA        42.0        42.6               34.2                      38.3
1546 as3                           50.8        54.9        55.1               57.7                     57.1
*543 asAl                           2.8         2.0         24                 35.                       4.2
"M                                  1.8         2.2        2.3                a2                         24
9RI43                              15.2        15.2         72                  .1                       3.0
m m 3 mu cm  TNOO3)                  ".          41.3        35.0               30.1                      50.9
139335135mu1 c CIII 335)             23.2        161.1       14.0                9.4                      31.0
GIoN 3A130011   NU                    3.0         3.0         2.4                1.9                       2.0
A11310. , AMIAL (TIOUS)             .            .. 
CZ3(  01 341325 633U3            ....5.                                    54.5                     45.3
MX30 OF 0 NO3NO. M3 04111A
C1969-710100)                       100.0       100.0         A.0              124.4                    10.
M   AP   SOPU    WX                              4J         }.                   ttf
0AL8KIII CZ of uAShIM2U3)          71.0        73.0        64.0              113.7                     113.2
53033  CGRJZ        M"             S3.0        42.0        45.0               60.23 S                    4
of ini   DBIMA   SD MAR.3         17.0        20.0        20.0 jL            14.1                      54.2
=LB (=I 1-4) W3M1 3IRS              26.1        19.9        12.0                7.2                      4.8
INAUBU   s
1.213 M13=. AX 3K31  (13433)         40.5        "A.         53.3               60.6                     644.
13333 303. 34I3 (cm  2305)          165.0       132.0        97.0               64.3                     59.7
;;IS 10-1 5133  2(.32h                                                         s) 
TOTA                                           13.3 IS2      .}      -          -1
243                               ..         46.5        55.0              35.6                       74.3
IML       un       1.                          10.0        10.0               37.1                       4.2
*CZ OF POIJIIAU)
TOTAL.                                          "I6.       14.0 j4             0.1                      56.3
0230*                               J.4.                   96.09 il           5.                        72.4
3IAL                                            3: 00        .0                 .7                      2.3
IOWULAIZOI 331 33131C1*           19220.0    11430.0    1359.0i                M 75J.                  1909.7
501 PM3 30331  1310                   .        1300.0       940.0             a 244.                     006.2
Pop-: PM MeXTA . 
TOM*1                             140.0 IL    150.0       250.0            1H12M                       242.0
'3_                              .10           50.0       100.0              451.4                    422.
.^          wm   tl
3931                               .I        2407.0      270. 00           2596.                     216. S7
ADl33Z0US   1  1|111L mUU             0    *.      .          ..-               41.1                     27.
A13*1   Sm  so wUS3N
TOTAL.                              3.1         .
-L                                  ..         U-            A  ..                                       5
llUU                                ..          ..          5O5767.
'0IA 1
AVZ310 W0. Olr 1U03m00KI
TOTAL. 0.7                                                                    *J
mm                                  ..         *..           6                  t                       3
IIIUL                               .. 1L
UImIU         or.                     ..          .. win   27.
TOTALF



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TAB LE  UA                                   Pa2e  2  of  6
PAPUA M  GUINEA          SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA    T
PAJUA M  GUINEA                     URRECC GROUPS (t1WEICHT    AERS) 1-
MOST                    (MUST RET ESTIMTE) 
RECENT           MIDILE INCOME         NIUL    C
19604b     L970L? ISTIii7dk        ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AIRICA  CAR
ADUSTEO ENRONENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  32.0       52.0        65.0             100.7                    106.7
mILl                  59.0        63.0       73.0              104.4                   108.5
EMLC                   7.0        39.0       S3.0              97.2                    104.6
SBCONDAKTI TOTAL                  1.0        6.0        13.0              47.3                    ".2
KLC                    2.0        11.0       17.0              50.6                     42.7
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0        *.0              44.0                     44.9
VOCAONAL (X OF SEcONDART)          16.0       19.4        16.2              ISA                      13.3
PUPIL-TEACEKA RATIO
PRIMARY                          35.0       30.0        32.0              30.4                     29.9
SECONMDA                         16.0                   22.0              22.2                     16.7
COSSIOff
PASSENGER CA/TIOUSAiD POP           2.0        7.2         6.1 /I           10.1                    46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSAD             ..          ..        67.1             172.9                   328.3
TV RECVEPSTUSA  PO                  ..          ..         ..               58.5                    112.4
NEMAPME  (DAILY  GEErL
INItREST") CIROCUATION
TOUSA  POPATION                   ..          ..         9.3              65.3                    81.1
CSI1N1. JAlMaL AT  45CYtAP..                    ..         ..                3.4                     2.4
TOTAL LAOR FORtCTITOUS)          1056.0      1257.0     1550.0
FEALE (CCRCT)                    41.4       41.3        40.9              33.6                    23.6
AGRICULTRE (PQRCENT)             69.0       36.0        62.1 Id           32.2                     31.4
IIUSRY (PERCENT)                  4.3        5J.         7.7              17.9                    24.3
PATITCIP*XUOI RATE CPERCUT)
TOTAL                            54.6       52.0        46.6              38.9                     33.5
MALE                             61.2       58.5        55.3              501                      51.3
FEMLE                            47.7       44.9        41.0              26.8                     15.9
ECIIOMaC DCPEIDENCI  RATIO          0.8        0.9         1.0               1.1                      1.3
1_1Z DXSsuzInna
PERCENT OF PRltVAE  XINC
IIcZEvzu T
R11S s OF or  SENOLDS             ..          .....
NIGIHCT 20S  DOUSUOLDS            ..          ..         ..               48.0                      .
LOWIST 20L OF OIISEINOLDS         ..          ..         ..                6.4
LOWST 40S 0 ROUSENOLDS           ..          ..         ..               15.5
r        C Tuu    P
ESTIMATED ABSOUITE POWER?! INCME
LEVEL (USS PCR CAFiTA)
gURm                              ..          ..       400.0               ..                     266.3
AL                                ..          ..       275.Q0j           151.9                    185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVIRY! INC1ME
LEVEL (USS FM CAFITA)
URI                               ..          ..         ..              177.9                    519.8
RUAL                              ..          ..         ..              164.7                    359.7
ESTIAD POP. ETAl ABSOT
POVErT lNoCmC LEEL CZ)
UlmA                              ..          ..        10.0 A            23.5
MtAL                              ..         ..         75.01             37A8
rOT AVAILABL
MOT APPLICABLE
SO T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are popuAltow-veighted arithletic man. Coveraga of coetiegs
smog tih indLcators depends on availability of data and La not wiforn.
lb   Uuale  otherwisa motad. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year betue_ 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 197t; and date for "Not RacAnt Estlmte" betueen 1961 and 1983.
Ic  1977; /d 1990; /I 1978;  f 1964;      1979.   /h  1984
JUNE. 1985



ANN,EX I
- 26-                                               Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nosw Aithough the dat are drwn rrom soure generly judsgdl the mast autoriataive a  reliabl. it should also be noted that they may noL be internationally
compare because of the lack of sardizd defditons and conep used by diffeet countnes in collcting the data. The data re. nonathss useful to
describe dei  f oaatude. Idicat tre, aN characterize  rl majOr differences betwen countries.
The Pen g-ros up - (I) he    count *gp  ftsubjecconyand(2) a country group with somewhat higvr amee income than the counry
roupofthesubjectcountry(eept forRigh IncomeOl Espor" groupwhere MidMdlelcwmeNorthAfricaani MiddkEEatischen beomusofstroe
so_ciutal nlwds4 In the fi   group doa th avemsu ar population weighted .ithmtlc means for eac indicstor and shown only when majority
oftbe couiet In a POu ha data for tht inca. Sine thecoverep of countie ng the Indicos depnds on the availability ofdata and is not uniform,
cauidton mmu beeredudin mIin averaies cione indatr to another. The averas am oiny uefl in comparing the v4lue odoe indicstor at a time aymg
the coutry and Ifern group.
AREA (thousnd sq.km.)                                         Cru  Srio Rare (pe thansaind.-Number of live births in the year
Teedm-Total surface ar  comprising land area and inland water  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 dauL
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cude Death Rar (per wasseus4-Number of deaths in the year
Agricabwnri-Estnate of agricultural area used temporarily or  xr thoumud of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1933 dataL
permanently for crops, paures. market and kitchen grdens or tc    GCe  Repedeu Jure-Average number of daughter a woman
lIe fallow, 1960.1970 nd 1962 data                            will bear in her normal reproductive peiod if she experie
preent age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averag  ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita etimates at curent        in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
miarket prices, calculated by samec conversion method as World  AuU P-aciig-cptors AAsad (rhassnudf)-Annual nunm-
Bank Ates (1981-83 basis); 1983 data,                         ber ofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUoM ON PER CAP11A-Asuall apparent                  family planning progamL
consumption of comimei  primary *eer (coal and lignite.       Fa#   PhiamU-Ust  (parmcSt 4.!asiew)-Th  en
petrolum  natural gS and hydro-. nuclear and geothml elec-    sage of married wmein of child-bearing age who are practiin or
tricity) in kilogrms of oil equivaient pr capita 1960, 970, arvd  woe husbands are practicing any forn of contraception. Women
1962 data.                                                    of child-bearing age are generally women sued 15-49, although for
some countis contraceptive usage is mesured for other age
POPULATION AND VfIAL STATISCS                                 groups.
Toandop 1983 . MMd-Yew (thlm.)-As of July 1; 1960,1970        FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1963 data.
Urbn Popuat. (pereew of rad)-Ratio of urban to total            lrxefFeedPrductiou Per Capita (196-7- 100h -Indexofper
population; different definitel)- of urban toeas motay affea cmpar capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban aren may affect compar- exldsailfedndedfoagcutr.Fdcmoiis
ability of data among countnes 1960, 1970, and 1983 da        cxdudesail food andwd foer agricalture Food wonuodities
abilty o dat amog contris; 160.170. nd 163  ~  incude primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Pbpulre PqTcdim                                               wbich arc edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
bpuadarion ui year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,  exduded); they comprise cals root crops, pulse  oil seds.
made for each economy  partely. Starting with information on  vegetabl  fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugr bs, litock. and
ttal population by age and sex, fertility rates, montality rates and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
iniernahonal migration in the bae year 1980. thewe paameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
wcre projected at five-year intrvals on the basis of gealied  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.          Phr Caita Splpy ofClarks (pcau efrqa"iMem)-Comput-
Statfoary popu&atles-  one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed fromn calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remaied at rplacenment levd  tion. imports kss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rte-1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. eeds for usein agriculture, quantities ued in
constant and equal to the death rmse, the age tructure is also  food procesug, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rte is ero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and bealth considering environmental temperature body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rte of decline of fertility  age and sx distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rte to rplacement kevL                                        waste at household leveL 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
ftpuladat  Momenuno-Is the tendency for population growth to  hr Capta s uSppy eofweins (rms per dsJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacment-levd fertility m been  per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply offood is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has macbed  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. Tbe momentum of a population in the year i is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grms of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year , given the assumption that fertility remains at replce-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment klvl from year * onward. 1985 data.                      75 grms of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
top.lt   Duy                                                  aveage for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bec-  Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarcs) of total -ra; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.               Per Capia Awed Suppy hear Aabrand Pf-Proten supply
Per sqJkn agrindtaa l land-Computed as above for agricultura  offood derived from animalsand pulsesin gms perday; 19l615.
land only, 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pepda    Age Serwe (pmerea)-Chkldren (0-14 year). work-       CUl (qes 1-4) Death Rate (per rth-sandt-Number of deaths of
ingage(15-64years),andrered(65yearsandover)asprcentage        chidn aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.            group m a given year. For most developing counties data derived
hpdae  Growh Rate (percrenrk-nu-Annual growth rates of        from life tabls; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year populaion for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-3.    HEALM
hopariew Geeth Rare (     s-h         Annual growth rates     Lyle Expeetacy at JIsA (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.   infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lif:  Puplreacher Ratio - primary, and seeondar)-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
hwt  M.uvt le (per thwamud)-Numicr of infants who die    teacher in the corrsponding lvels
befoe reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960 1970 and 1983 dd.                                  CONSUMPTION
A s to S*  Watw (Prcoot of                u wm, m             ?am_r Cm (per thmud popaLWn)-Pauner cars cm-
Nral-Number of peopkc (total urba  and ra) with re_sonatle     prine motor cars seating lns than eight persons: excludes ambul-
MI. to sfe wae supply  nclude trated surface was  or          ances, beus and military vehicles.
untraed but utncotia a   watr such as that from proected     JRdb Aeedr (er bthomdpopsluus)-All types of receiver
boeho       n    d sanitary wels) a percentages of their spec-  for radio broadcs to general public per thousnd of population;
tive populaton  In an urban are*a public fountain or tandpost  excludes un-lied receivers in countries and in years when
ocated not morm than 200 meters from a houwe may be consdered   gq ttion of rnd io sm   in effect; data for  t yew may
a bng within reasonabic is   of that houe. In mrg arsra t be c omfpnrbio snce wast countnds fborsbed    yersmin      a
r_ aonable aosuld imply that the bousewife or members of the
housdbold do n  have to spend a dirproportionate par of the day  TVrlra  (e            Ori      v  recive for broadcat
in fdching de  mils water neds                                to gnal pubic per thouand popula; excludes unliensd TV
Aem to E         D_t              f (  tg, oecves in countries and in yeen when registration of TV sets ws
aN raa-Number of people (totl, urban, and rural) rved by      in efec
exci   disposl a percenta     of their rspective populations.    IAkiUUeCr G  o  (pm       mwaupsloila.-Shows the aver-
Exca disposal may include the collection and disposl with or  ae cialation of daDry genera inter  newspaper." dined as a
without treatment. of human excreta od waste-water by water-  periodical pubicon devoted primarily to recording grl news.
borne sysmor the use of pit privies  d  similar instailtionL  It is considered to be 'daily if it appeas at leat four tir-s a week
Pymadear  Phydauk-Fpulation divided by number of prac-        CLiW  A _od AumE_   pt Ck*eF  per Yea-Based on the
tawnplysian qualifiedm fro a medil  school at uiverity lev.   number of ticks sold during the year. induding adnisions to
Pepoudi per Noi-A    Poa-Ppulabtion divided by number of      drive-in cuemas and mobile units.
prctcing male   d female graduate nurses, aistant nurs,
prctcal nurses and nuing auxla                                LAOR FOCE
Ibha pr R_lhsp   D.d-u,d. u_,    _ a1-44pukasion               Ttal Ldabr ?l   (r%.mds)-Economically active persons, in-
(toteL urban, and rural) divided by thir rpective number of   studet etc. comcs pp unsnp    but esadling housewfn    in
spip ba avaglabem public and privwate, gner   alnd -           tudents, etc. coverng populon of all ae  Definitios in
hospial and rebilitatn cters Hospitalues am                   various countries are not comparabl 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.
permanenty staffed by at leat one physician Esutblimnts pr-   Fma (pOrcew)-Female labor force as percentage of tota labor
d.g prncipay custodia ciur ae not induded. Rural hospital     force
bowever, include helth and nedical centers not pemanently staffed  A  ,icuhrne (proear)-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physicin (but by a cedical aistnt nuws  midwife. etc.)   and fishing as perepntage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which olle in-patient aocommodabon and provide a lmited range  data.
of nmdical faclities.                                         ludlssi  (paear.-Labor force in mining. c onstruction. manu-
Admkuio. pw Hpot NeI-Total number of admissions to or         facoring and electricity. water and gs as percentage of total labor
disharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 dataL
Fed,po.-_ Rate (perir)-tot4amh. adfammk-P1rticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total male. and female labor force
A.   e Sie of HNwfrM (pwias pff hesuold)-4e14,  aa,           as percentages of total male and female population of all ages
md,abl-A hounsho  consists ofa gru ofindividuals who shae     respdtvely. 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. Tbese are based on ILOas
wving qutes and their main meals A boarder or odgr may or     participaton rts reflecting age-sa strut  of the population. and
my not be inluded in the household for stistical purposes.    long time trend. A few estinates are from national soucs
Averg Aumbew of *oitp R_I_oor-              ohar, aid fwa-    Ecemu    Depeudeuy Ran -Ratio of population under 15, and
Average nunber of persons per room in all urban. and rual     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelling, respectively. Dwdlings excdude
non-pmnent structurs and uocpied parts                        INCOME DISTRDUTMON
Aertge of Dueag wh Ekwichp-4w4 wh. .dwd-  ,                     rw     of Tta Dipoabk luerwe (both m eab mid kimd)-
Conventional dwellingp with eletricity in living quarters as perun-  Accruing to pentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban and rural dwelngs repectively.           hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Aastd E iwOlwr RatiD                                           The following estimates are very approximate mnsures opoverty
Rnwy  schod - tot.al   m ad femal-Gross total. male and       kvds. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
fle enroent of al ags at the primary level as penas of or     EsatedAhal lboerty lucere Levd (U=S3er c cpit - _ n
respective primary schoolae populationL While many countries  ad rwl-Absolute poverty income levd is that income lvd
conider primy chool ag to be 6-11 yean  others do no. The     below which a minimsl nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
diffees in country pracices in the ages and durtion of school  non-food requirements is not affordablek
a  reflected in the ratios given. For some acontns with universal  Eiauud Rdean  Poverty lu wne Lewd (US pr capits)-mrhau
eduatin gro  eunroment may exceed 100 pacent since some       ad rw-Rural relative poverty incom  level is one-third of
pupils are bdow or above the countrys stadard prmary-school   average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
aF                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Sewaday scao - teotal male aadjfai-Computed as aboav          living in urban areas
sndry education requ    at kast four yea  of approved pn-     Esdma   hop._  blow Abslue Por   scase Lewd (pm-
my instuco  provides geneL vocatinl or teacher ting            at-          d rw--- Perct of population (urban and rural
insucto  for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; corspond-  who are 'absolute poor.-
nce   nar gnamlly ecluded.
VocatioeialE iri (prere  of ecSdoy)-Vocational inst-                    Compauative Analysis and Data Division
tions      technical industiL o otber programs which operate          Economic Analysis and Projection Dprtmnt
indepndently or as departments of secondary instittis.                                June 1935



AMNZ I
Page 5 of 6
-28 -
PAPUA NEW GUTINA
COUNTRY DATA /a
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984
ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH (X constant K)
USS uln          X                      1970-76        1975-84-       1983-84
GNP at market prices                 2,309.4       100.0                      2.9/b           1.9/b          1.0
Gross domestic lnvestment              581.3        25.2                      5.6             3.0         -20.8
Grose natlonal savings                 307.7        13.3
Current account balance               -330.0       -14.3                        .
Export of goods, NFS                 1,017.0        44.0                     18.1             2.2            3.0
Import of goods, NFS                 1,290.7        55.9                      2.7             1.9            1.7
OUTPUT. EMPLOYHENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value added                Labor force         Value added per worker
USS an /c         S          M_            X        USS/c              X
Agriculture                  811          35.1        1.00        87.7          A11             2.7
Industry                     647          28.0        0.03         2.6       21,567            71.6
Services                     852          36.9        0.11         9.7        7,745            25.7
Total/Average         2.310        100.0         1.14      100.0        30.123           100.0
COVERNMENT FINANCE                                                Central government
K rln                         Z of GDP
1984                  1979            1984
Current domestlc receipts                             488.0                  17.1             22.5
Current expenditure                                   647.n                  27.6             29.8
Current surplus                                      -159.0                 -17.1             -7.3
Capltal expendlture                                    95.0                   5.5              4.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                              1980          1981          1982         1983          1984
Money supply                                            553           555           568          650           750
Bank credit to public sector                              8            43            71            5            -5
Bank credit to private sector                           280           322          455           413           501
Percentage of index numbers
Money as Z of CDP                                      31.9          33.5          32.5         32.5          34.6
Consumer price index (1977-100)                       125.5         135.6         143.0        154.3         165.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                                 12.1           8.0          5.5           7.8          7.5
Bank credit to public sector                          0.5           2.5          4.0           0.3         -0.3
Bank credit to private sector                        11.7          12.7          8.9          20.3         19.0
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1-June 30 to January 1-December 31.  All data have
been adjusted to a calendar tern basis.
/b Grovth rates are calaculated In line at end points.
/c  At factor cost (current prices). Most recent data not available.
not applicable
not available
April 1986



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
- 29 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (USS  ln)           1982      1983       1984        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1980-B4) (US$ mln)
Exports of goods, NFS                   863.6     926.0   1,017.0        Coffee                                126.7        14.5
Imports of goods, NFS                 1,395.3   1,360.0   1,290.7        Cocoa                                  58.6         6.7
Bssource gap (Deficit - -1)            -531.7    -434.9    -273.7        Copra 6 copra products                 62.1         7.1
Tlmber and timber products             71.1        8.1
Factor services (net)                   -93.4     -96.3    -263.4        Copper concentrates                   181.4        20.7
Transfers (net)                         138.2     160.7      168.0       Gold                                  232.4        26.6
Balance on current account            -486.9    -370.5    -330.3         All other commodities                 142.4       16.3
Private capital (net)                   378.3     312.9      247.5            Total                            874.7       100.0
Public MLT loans (net)                  101.7     152.3       16.8
Error. and omLssions /s                 -32.6      14.4      115.4       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECZEBER 31. 1984               USS mIn
Increase in reserves                    -40.7     109.1       28.0
Public debt including guaranteed                 1,209
Import of fuel and related              198.1     200.7  - 175.1         Nonguaranteed private debt                         890
materials                                                              Total outstanding and disbursed                  2,099
EXCHANCE RATE                                                            NET 'DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /b                X
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985         Public debt, including guaranteed                 13.0
Nonguaranteed private debt                        23.1
US$1 - K            0.67    0.67    0.74    0.83    0.89    1.00         Total outstanding and disbursed                   36.1
K - USS             1.49    1.49    1.36    1.20    1.12    1.00
IBRD LENDING (March 31. 1986)                USS mln
IBND    IDA
Outstandlg and disbursed                 127.3  112.0
Undisbursed                                95.9    1.1
outstanding Including undisbursed  223.2  113.1
/a Includes capital n.e.i.
79; Interest and amortization payments as a percent of exports of goods and services.
April 1986



ANNEX II
- 30 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits /a
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount (US$ million
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
credit                                                                          Undis-
number    Year  Borrower             Purpose                  Bank    IDA       bursed
Eight loans and eleven credits fully disbursed            87.5    91.4         -
0841-PNG  1978    PNG      Rural Development                    -      20.0       0.58
1934-PNG  1981    PNG     Primary Education                    6.0      -         2.99
2125-PNG  1982    PNG      Enga Provincial Development         6.0       -        3.48
1279-PNG  1983    PNG     Petroleum Technical Assist.           -       3.0/b     0.50/c
2265-PNG  1983    PNG      Road Improvement                   31.0       -       25.70
2276-PNG  1983    PNG     Agric. Support Serv.                14.1       -       12.79
2395-PNG  1984    PNG      Secondary Education                49.3       -       41.77
2475-PNG  1985    PNG     West Sepik Provincial                9.7       -        9.21
2608-PNG  1986    PNG      Nucleus Estate & Smallholder       27.6       -         -/d
2624-PNG  1986    PNG      Third Agricultural Credit          18.8       -         -7d
Total                                                    250.0   114.4       97.02
Of which has been repaid                                  18.7      1.3        -
Total now outstanding                                    231.3   113.1         -
Amount sold                        8.1                     0.0      0.0
Of which has been repaid           8.1
Total Loans Now Held by Bank and IDA                     223.2   113.1
Total Undisbursed                                         95.9      1.08     97.02
B. Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).
/c Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of US$
commitment.
/d As of March 31, 1986, loan was not yet effective.



ANNEX III
- 31-                             Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project            2 years
(b)  The project was prepared by                             ELCOM and SMEC
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank                  1984
(d)  Date of first mission to consider the project           March 1984
(e)  Appraisal Mission                                       September 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations                              April 1986
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness                              July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
ELCOM (para. 42) and effectiveness of the OECF and EIB loans are
conditions of effectiveness (para. 47);
Cb) ELCOM will (i) by January 1, 1987, appoint consultants according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank
to carry out a study of policies and standards for future rural
electrification activity; (ii) by March 31, 1988 complete the
study and discuss with the Bank the preliminary findings; and
(iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank, implement the
mutually agreed recommendations; a condition of disbursement of the
rural electrification pilot project would be completion of study and
agreement between Bank and ELCOM on recommendations to be
implemented (para. 38);
(c) ELCOM will (i) by January 1, 1987, retain consultants, according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to conduct a Job Standardization Study; (ii) by December 31, 1987
complete and discuss the Study with the Bank; and (iii) implement
those mutually agreed recommendations according to a schedule
acceptable to the Bank (para. 50);
(d) ELCOM will consult with the Bank prior to making any decisions which
might result in major changes to ELCOM's organization (para. 51);



ANNEX III
Page 2
- 32 -
(e) ELCON will retain training specialists according to terms of
reference and a schedule acceptable to the Bank (para. 52);
(f)  ELCOM will (i) by January 1, 1987, appoint consultants, according to
terms of reference and a seLection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to standardize ELCOM's technical functions and to prepare manuals
for standard operating procedures; (ii) by December 31, 1987
complete and discuss with the Bank the consultants' findings; and
(iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank, implement
those mutually agreed recommendations (para. 53);
(g) ELCOM will (i) by June 30, 1988, appoint consultants according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to conduct a technical audit; (ii) by January 31, 1989, complete the
audit and discuss with Bank the consultants' recommendations; and
(iii) according to schedule acceptable to the Bank, implement
mutually agreed recommendations (para. 54);
(h) ELCOM will take all steps, including but not limited to increasing
its tariff, to realize revenues sufficient to meet its cash operat-
ing expenses, all debt service, income taxes, dividends payable and
30X of its average annual investment program (para. 62);
(i) ELCOM will, unless the Bank otherwise agrees, incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures
for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times ELCOM's debt service requirement for the same year
(para. 62); and
(j) After completion of construction, ELCOM will conduct periodic
inspections, to be performed by independent experts acceptable to
the Bank, of the dam and associated works. To this end, ELCOM would
propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for conducting such
inspections, not later than one year before the expected completion
of the main civil works (para. 67).



3                                                     Ae
LU 'O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'
<tE) - XI                                ''    R                                  e;\    I    iK
5.H             ''       I                       x            I                            j ZS *
Lu/               ' '1            f    i              N'                                         0
------- -------------------
---------------~ ~ ~~ ~~  --   --  ---  --
-- ---------------------- 
E   X         J      os    )   1 I'~~~------------ -- h--         
______________-   1  W   ]                I              I S  ~~~~~~----------------
o------------------------- 
/2  -----------1 
------------                             --- - - -   &j
V I S'    3 N,--GN IVAV----- V      2                     -    I
1  2  *   $    tz                  \                l\     X    .~S~
C                          '4                  ,X    tsw 
VI S3NO   NI  VAV    NVI    I                                  I-sg 






