Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFF'eIAL USE ONLY
.v ,          I' f'-
Report No. 6029-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
April 21, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk sutborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Kina (K}
1 Kins (K)          USU
I Kina              100 toea (t)
(As of December 1985)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 through 1977
January 1 to December 31 beginning in 1978
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m       -    meter (3.281 feet)
cu m    =    cubic meter (35.31 cubic feet)
cms     =    cubic meter per second (35.315 cubic feet per second)
km           kilometer (0.62 miles)
sq km   =    square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
kWh     =    kilowatt hour (860.42 keals)
-GWh     =    gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW      =    kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW      =    Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kV      =    kilovolt (1,000 volts)
KVA          kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amp es)
TCF     =    trillion cubit feet (0.283 x 10   cum)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADAB      -    Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BCL       -    Bougainville Copper Limited
CIF       -    Cost, Insurance, Freight
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
ELCOM     -    Electricity Commission
EPU       -    Energy Planning Unit
ERB       -    Engineering Review Board
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
MME       -    Ministry of Minerals and Energy
OECF      -    Overseas E:conomic Cooperation Fund
PNG       -    Papua New Guinea
SMEC      -    Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation of Australia
TR        -    Touche Ross Services Pty (PNG)



t   -- i -         FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Independent State of Papua New C inea (PNG)
Beneficiary:    The Electricity Commission (ELCOM)
Amount:.      =US$28.6 million
Terms:          20 years, including 5 years o  grace on repayment of
principal, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relendings:     The Government will onlend the proceeds of this loan to ELCON
at its applicable rate for power project8 (currently 11X) or
at the prevailing Bank rate, whichever is higher, for the same
term as the proposed Bank loan. ELCOM will assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The project comprises: (a) construction of a 60 m high
earthfill dam on the Ramu River with a total embankment volume
of about 1.8 million cu m, a spillway system and outlet struc-
ture, and associated works; (b) installation of two additional
15 MW generating units together with step-up transformers at
the existing Ramu I power station; (c) relocation of a part of
the Highlands highway and local access roads, together totally
22 km; (d) engineering and consulting services; (e) a training
program; (f) technical assistance for institutional support;
and (g) a rural electrification component.
Benefits:       The proposed loan supports a major hydroelectric power
development which would reduce ELCOM's dependence on costly
imported oil and replace it with indigenous hydro resources.
The project would also provide adequate training and
institutional support to assist ELCOM's development of local
staff resources, and develop an institutional and policy
framework for a future rural electrification program.
Risks:          The project faces no special risks, ELCOM has endeavored to
minimize the project risks during construction particularly
with respect to the treatment of the embankment f-.i*ation.  A
grout curtain has been designed to fill cavities in tie con-
glomerates with cement and possible sand lenses %ith themical
grout.  The design is satisfactory.  ELCOM has al- *._ted
promptly in preparing to upgrade the operating voltage for the
transmission lines to 132 Kv. Whatever risks remain are not
judged to be significant enough to preclude proceeding with
the loan.
This document hts a rsted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomane
of their offcal dutios Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank muthmimtlon.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                  Local       Forei       Total
----US5 nnll ion  --
Civil works                                     14.0        21.0        35*0
Electrical and mechanical                        2.0         5.0         7.0
Engineering and consulting services /a           3.0         5.6         8.6
Construction related establishment expenses    5.5            -          5.5
Training and institutional development           9.4         5.1        14.5
Rural electrification                            1.2         2.4         3.6
Base Cost /b                               35.1        39.1        74.2
Contingencies
Physical                                       4.2         5.0         9.2
Price                                          7.7         8.5        16.2
Total Project Cost                         47.0        52.6        99.6
Interest during construction                         7.3       10.5        17.8
Total financing required                        54.3        63.1       117.4
Financing Plan.                                   Local        Foreign   Total
==----- e 5n -------
IBRD loan                          12.7       15.8        28.5
ADAB grant                           -         1.6         1.0
EIB loan                            7.0        9.0        16.0
OECF loan                          11.2       26.8        38.0
ELCOM internal cash generation   23.4         10.5        33.9
Total                           54.3       63.1       117.4
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY                    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
-    --------- US$ millon
Annual                      1.4    3.1    6.0    8.0    8.6    1.4
Cumulative                  1.4    4.5   10.5   18.5   27.1   28.5
Economic Rate of Return: 16.5S
IBRD No. 19385
a/   Includes US$1 million Project Preparation Facility from the Bank, which
will be refinanced from the proposed Bank loan, and US$1 million
equivalent grant from ADAB.
b/   Includes import duties and taxes of about US$1.2 million equivalent.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONRI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I*  THE ENERY SECTOR .....-.-- ....................-....*                 I
A. Energy Resource Overview                                           1
D.  Energy Consumption                  ...                          2
C. Institutional Aspects ......................    ,  ..            2
D.  Sector Issues and Policies                                       3
II.  THE POWER SUBSECTOR                 .........                         4
A. Background                                                        4
B.* Institutions.......                                              S .**.*....*.*..
C.  Subsector Policy and Sta        y     .    .     g y              S
D.  Bank Participation in the Subsector .................             5
III.  THE BENEFICIARY 0      00 0 0 00...... 00000 ,                        6
A. Introduction                                                       6
B.  Orgai      gto.     n i z a t i on.....  0...0....000             7
Structure ...0 ......0             ........    -              7
Personnel and Staffing ...................  ,                 7
Expatriate Staff                                              9
Training                                                     10
Technical Activities                                         11
C.  Financial Management ............ .*..**.......**                12
Financial Planning      .......     0000 0                   12
Management Information Systems                               13
Electronic Data Processing .......................           13
Commercial Practices 00000000000000000000000000000013
Accounting                                                   14
External Audit  .0 0.0 0...0.                                15
Internal Audit                                               is.........o.  15
Insurance                                                    15
Income .........                 *                           15
This report was prepared by Messrs. Weigong Cao and Jamil Sopher, who
appraised the project in September 1985 with the assistance of Mr. Gerry
Dunnion, Training Consultant.



- ii -
Pate No.
IV.  ELCOM'S POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAX ...............    ......          16
A.  ELCOM's Operation ...................                               16
B.  Load Forecast       ....                   .........t              18
C.  Power Development Programs for Port Moresby and
Ramu Systems *                                                  19
V.  THE PROJECT .                                                           20
A.  Project Objectives *         .................................     20
R.  Projecr Description .......................-.                      21
Yonki Dam - Main Civil Works ......       ................      21
Engineering and Consulting Services   ...............           22
Training, Manpower Development and
Institutional Support       ..........................      23
Rural Electrification ....       .........................      24
C.  Project Cost Estimates            .......................          25
D.  Project Financing0.6....0. 000 * eeS.0.e*eo   ..:.. .......       ... 27
E.  Procurement .........*      ...............................        28
F.  Project Implementation          ........... .........  .....       29
Go Disbursement            .............    .......** ........         30
H.  Monitoring and Reporting           .............................   31
.  EcoloR y ......................     ....................            31
Jo Risks                                 ....,32
vI.  FINANCE *6***000*****000e**0.*60000.......60**.*....*,                  32
A*  Introduction * *4**4S**       ...........................           32
B.  Past and Present Financial Performance           ...............    33
35
"aluation of Assets ,..............................             36
C*   ............................................ ........             36
D.  Financing Plan                            ...............           38
E*  Future Finances .. so        ........................... ......    40
VII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ..*...*        ................................      43
A& Background ...*         ......................................      43
B.  Least Cost Analysis of the Ramu System ....        ...........     43
C.  Internal Economic Rate of Return for the Project .....             45
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...          ...    .....................  45



- iii -
ANUMEXES
1. ELCOM's Organization Chart
2.  Terms of Reference for the Institutional Support Technical Assistance
3. Existing Ceneration Facilities
4. Operating Statisics
5. Electricity Sales by Category of Consumers
6.  Existing Transmission and Substation Facilities
7. Port Morseby and Ramu Systems
8. Ramu System - Electricity S&les by Catagory of Consumers
9.  Port Moresy System - Electricity Sales by Category of Consumers
10.  ELCOM': Load Forecast (1985-95)
11. Blance of Ramu System Load Requirements and Capabilities
12. The 1985-1995 Power Investment Plan
13. Pertinent Project Data
14. Terms of Reference for the Construction Management Services
15. Terms of Reference for the Training Consultants
16. Terms of Reference for Rural Electrification Institutional and Policy
Development
17. Project Cost Estimate
18. Organization Chart of the Construction Unit
19. Project Construction Schedule
20. Engineering, training, Technical Assistance and Rural Electrification
Implementing Schedules
21. Key Dates of Project Implementation Schedule
22. Disbursement Schedule
23. Financial Statements and Projections
24. Least - Cost Analysis
25. Internal Economic Rate of Return
26. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
HAP
Yonki Hydroelectric Project (IBRD 19385)



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A.  Energy Resource Overview
1.01      Papua Nev Guinea (PNG) is spread-over 2,072,000 sq km of tropical
seas north of Australia.  The eastern half of the istand of New Guinea and
three largest outer islands - namely, New Britain, New Ireland and
Bougainville - comprise most of the land surface of 462,000 sq km. The land
surface shows unusual diversity with extremely rugged mountain ranges, wide
valleys, large river systems, extensive jungles, and vast swamps. Although
PNG's population is rather sparse at 3.2 million, the country is relatively
well-endowed with energy resources. However, its energy options are severely
constrained by the difficult topography, the geographical fragmentation of the
population and the small size of total domestic energy demand. The most abun-
dant energy resource is the hydroelectric potential created by the mountainous
topography and generally heavy rainfall, particularly on the Fly, Purari, and
Kibori rivers flowing into the Gulf of Papua and the Musa river flowing into
Oro Bay (see Map IBRD 19385). The total hydropotential is estimated at
14,000-21,000 MW (or nearly 5 to 7 kW per capita, one of the highast for any
country in the world). However, because of the scattered islands and limited
demand in anf one locality, development of large hydro resources has not been
justifiable.y Existing hydro stations aggregate only 123 MW and most of them
are run-of-the-river power stations with little firm energy potential.
1.02      Substantial exploration work has been done in the oil and gas
subsector in the past fifty years. Moderate size gas discoveries have been
made, both onshore and offshore, with gas reserves conservatively estimated at
1.5-5.0 TCF and condensates at over 60 million barrels. However, considering
the large area underlain by sedimentary rocks with potential for petroleum and
natural gas, past exploration has been quite modest and these hydrocarbon
resources are essentially univaluated.  In order to accelerate petroleum
exploration 1n PNG, activity under a Bank financed Petroleum Exploration
Technical Assistance Project was begun in 1982. This project has already
resulted in bids for exploration of 14 blocks in the9Papuan Basin. PNG's
extensive forests provide a significant biomass potential. These forests
cover nearly 33 million hectares, of which less than lOX are being exploited
1/   One difficulty in planning hydro development is the lack of stream
gauging records for all except the largest rivers. The joint UNDP/World
Bank Energy Assessment Program in PNG has recommended that action be
taken to introduce new gauging stations on small rivers throughout the
country. As of 1983, expanded efforts in conducting an inventory of
mini-hydro resources were being pursued, with assistance from the New
Zealand Government.



-2-
for logging operations. The country has surface manifestation of geothermal
energy. Coal occurrences have been reported in Gulf Province and near Lae.
These have generally been small deposits of low grade coal with seams dipping
at moderate angles. The country': resourci,base provides a wide variety of
long-term options for its energy planners.-
B. Energy Consumption
1.03      Traditional fuels (wood, charcoal and crop residues) are the main
sources of energy for the rural population (approximately 80X of PNC's total
population). Limited studies conducted in certain localities have estimated
fuel wood consumption at 1.2 kg/capita/day, equivalent to 1.4 million tons
annually.  On this basis fuel wood contributes about 37Z of total energy
consumption. In most of the rural areas, fuelwood is likely to continue to be
used for cooking in households, and the demand for this purpose may be expec-
ted to grow at the same rate as the population.
1.04      In 1984, PNG imported about 674,500 tons of petroleum products,
representing about 90% of commArcial energy consumption in PNG. During the
period 1976-84, overall consumption increased by an average of 4.4% annually;
the increase was particularly high for diesel oil (8.2%) as a result of
(a) increased thermal power generation; and (b) a shift from gasoline .o
diesel oil in the transportation sector. On the other hand, consumption of
fuel oil and gasoline increased at a slower rate (1.5% and 0.2% p.a., respec-
tively). The energy sector of PNG has developed alongside the various
enclaves. The major enclave is Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL), which is on
Bougainville Island separated from the country's major demand centers and
which consumed almost 37% of total consumption of petroleum products in 1984
(250,000 tons). Most of this fuel was residual fuel oil used in power
geaeration.
1.05      Electricity consumption in 1984 was approximately 1,200 GWh, of
which about 62% was used by BCL. The Electricity Commission (ELCOM) supplied
421 GWh to 43,000 consumers in 1984. The per capita consumption of electri-
city in PVG is about 387 KWh (1984); this is very low compared to 487 KWh
(1982) in Fiji, 405 KWh (1982) in Philippines and 764 KWh (1982) in
Malaysia. With only 34,200 domestic connections currently, less than 7% of
PNG's population has access to electric power.
C. Institutional Aspects
1.06      The Ministry of Minerals and Energy (MME) has broad responsibilities
covering the assessment and development of PNG's minerals and energy resour-
ces, the monitoring of mining and petroleum licensees, land surveys, water
resources, mapping and cartography, geological surveys, the formulation of
national energy policy and the implementation of certain renewable energy
2/   A mure detailed discussion than appears herein is prov,ded in:  "Report
of the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program: Papua New
Guinea - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector," (June 1982).



-3-
projects.  Under the Minister, a Secretary supervises the Ministry's three
divisions which respectively have responsibility fort (a) Policy and
Planning; (b) Geological Surveys; and (c) Mines. ELCOM, the national power
company, reports directly to Minister of Minerals and Energy. ELCOM is organ-
ized as a Commercial Statutory Authority whose policies are formulated by a
Boa-d of Commissioners.
1.07      The Energy Planning Unit (EPU) of the Policy and Planning Division
of MME has responsibility for energy planning. So far, the Unit has mainly
provided advice on key energy projects, has initiated the collection and com-
pilation of sector data, and promoted the use of renewable energy resources.
D. Sector Issues and Policies
1.08      Although PNG is well-endowed with potential energy resources, all
its commercial energy needs are currently met through imported petroleum
products and, to a limited extent, hydropower generation. Oil imports in 1984
were estimated at US$159 million (CIF), representing more than 7% of GNP and
more than 10% of export revenue. Without major efforts by the Government to
reduce this deper.dence, energy imports wi2l eventually impose a severe burden
on the economy. The Government established EPU in 1978 for assisting it in
its efforts to diversify sources of energy. EPU has emphasized the role of
renewable resources for alleviating PNG's energy problems. These include, in
particular, ethanol for the transport sector, wood pyrolysis for the indus-
trial sector, and solar water heating and photovoltaics for households. More
conventionai areas of activity tended to be neglected and energy planning did
not advance significantly. The Government has reouested technical assistance
in developing a strategy for improving the current situation by identifying
and implementing a reliable and least cost supply option, which would reduce
dependence on imported petroleum products. During the past three years, with
joint UNDP/Worli Bank assistance, EPU began to place more emphasis on the
electricity subsector, where 42% of petroleum products are used, and where
options are available to substitute for the oil used in power generation. Work
has begun on comprehensive energy studies and planning, aiming at organizing
and accelerating the oil and gas exploration effort and the rational develop-
ment of other indigenous energy resources. Efforts to optimize the power
expansion program based on the least cost development plan (paras. 4.09-4.11)
are also in progress.
1.09      While progress has been made in strengthening the sectoral policy
and technical capabilities, the pace of this development has been slow and
further action is required. MME has traditionally focused on hard-rock
minerals (so far, mostly copper and gold), as these contribute substantially
to the Government's revenue earnings. PEG's commercial energy needs are
mainly met through imported petroleum products. However, the energy sector is
now in transition, with the Government encouraging the development of the
country's vast hydroelectric potential and its natural gas and oil, all of
which could play a pivotal role in PNG's energy future. The rate at which PNG
can respond to, and therefore benefit from, these changes depends largely on
the imagination and dynamism being shown by its policy level institution in
directing and controlling activity aimed at implementing these new energy
sector policies. Institutional strengthening in the areas of planning, imple-



-4-
mentation, and system operation is therefore a high priority which should be
addressed in the context of mrjor development projects in the sector
(paras. 3.08-3.15).-                            -
1,10      The scant domestic utilization of electricity, particularly in rural
areas, indicates that rural electrification is a sector issue which needs
addressing.  Development of the courtry's rich agricultural and resource
potential depends directly on efforts to enhance the capability of larger
segments of PNC's population to exploit those resources; achieving a greater
penetration of electricity into the rural areas, especially the Highlands-, is
essential to these efforts. However, because of the sparse population and
difficult tertain, most rural electrification projects are prohibitively
expensive.  Consequently, the Government of PNG will need to develop policy
parameters and an institutional framework for enabling investment in rural
electrification. The proposed project addresses this particular issue
(para. 5.09).
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.01      At the end of 1984, the total installed capacity of the power sub-
sector in PWG was about 467 MW, of which about 26% (123 MW) was hydroelectric
and 74% (344 MW) was diesel. Tne scattered smaller islands and the extremely
rugged (in some places inaccessible) mountain ranges on the main island pre-
clude any possibility of a fully integrated power system. At present, public
electricity suppty in PNG consists of 19 independent power systems serving 25
urban centers scattered throughout the country. At the end of 1984, the
installed capacity and generation in the country were:
Table 2.1: THE INSTALLED CAPACITY AND GENERATION IN THE COUNTRY
Installed Capacity       (MW)              Generation
Hydro   Thermal   Total       (%)       (GWh)       (Z)
ELCON                   117.0     77.9    194.9    (41.6)       432.9     (27.7)
Government                0.5      6.0       6.5     (1.4)        7.0       (0.4)
Bougainville Copper       -.-    196.0    196.0    (41.9)       966.8     (61.8)
Ok Tedi Mine              2.2     28.0      30.2     (6.5)       66.1       (4.2)
PNG Forest Products       3.5      -.-       3.5     (0.7)       17.0       (1.1)
Other Private             -.-     37.0      37.0     (7.9)       75.0       (4.8)
Total               123.2    344.9    468.1   (100.0)   1,564.8    (100.0)



8. Institutions
2.02      ELCOM is responsible fcr public electrictty supply thrQughout the
coantry. At the end of 1984, ELCMM's system bad a total installed capacity of
about 195 MW (this represented about 42% of the total installed capacity in
the country). ELCOM also operates and maintains a number of small facilities
(totalling abotst 7 MW) for which the Government retains ownership and finan-
cial responsibility. The installed capacity of facilities owned by other
private sector entities is about 267 MW. The largest private licensee, with
an installed capacity of 196 NW, is BCL. BCL sells its residual power to
ELCON for distribution in the Kieta-Arawa area in Bougainville Province. A
small hydro plant with an installed generation capacity of 3.5 MW, which is
located near Bauine to the south of Lae, is owned by PNG Forest Products
Ltd. The rest of the private generating facilities are owned by mining and
forest companies, plantations and religious organizations. These include
mostly small diesel units and also a number of small hydro plants.
C. Subsector Policy and Strategy
2.03      The fundamental objectives underlying ELCOM's strategy for electric
power development are as folLows:
(a) meeting the increasing demand for public electricity supply in the
country;
(b) utilizing indigenous natural resources, especially firm hydropower}
to reduce the country's dependence on costly oil imports;
(c)  providing less costly power to industrial, commercial, rural and
domestic consumers;
(d) rationalizing power production and distribution through expansion of
the high-voltage transmission grid;
(e) recruiting, developing, compensating and maintaining a workforce for
the electric power industry, capable of sustained performance at
internationally acceptable standards and comprised, to the greatest
extent possible, of PNG nationals.
D. Bank Participation In The Subsector
2.04      During FY71 and FY74 the Bank made two loans (now fully disbursed)
to ELS/N totalling $34 million to help finance a hydroelectric power plant and
related training. The First Power Project (Loan 737-PNC) financed the first
stage of the Upper Ramu Hydroelectric Development Scheme (Ramu I). Completion
of the project was delayed by about nine months. A cost overrun of about 29Z
was incurred, primarily because of currency fluctuations. A Project
Completion Report (No. 1687) dated October 1979 was prepared. The lessons
learned included: (i) detailed project preparation, particularly extensive
exploratory drilling, contributed towards successful implementation of the
project; and (ii) training programs helped further the policy of employing
national staff. The Second Power Project (Loan 999-PNC) consisted of



(a) technical assistance for ELCOM's in-service training program during the
period 1974 through 1979; (b) financing of the shortfall in funds for meetinK
the foreian exchange expenditures for the Ramu I project; and (c) distribution
system expansion. The project was executed as planned. The objectives of the
project have largely been met. The project was completed on schedule and at
the estimated cost. A Project Completion Report (No. 3912) dated April 1982
was prepared. An important lesson learned from this project is that local-
ization, especially of senior management, should be implemented after a much
longer period of in-service training, and expatriate support should be main-
tained until local counterparts have gained adequate experience (paras. 3.09-
3.11). The Bank's involvement in the power subsector remains highly desir-
able.
III. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Introduction
3.01      ELCOM will be the beneficiary of the proposed loan.  ELCOM was
established as a Commission of the Government of PNG in 1963. Later, over-
sight of its activities was assigned to the MME. In October 1983, it was
reorganized as a Commercial Statutory Authority, continuing to report to the
same Ministry. ELCOM's management enjoys nearly complete indepgndence in
managing day-to-day affairs. So long as it respects Government guidelines,
management provides the predominant inputs and has responsibility for
decisions concerning planning, contracting, staffing, pricing, and financing
of investment. ELCOM's customer service operations are conducted from 25 load
center facilities. In addition, ELCOM operates about 27 small and technically
simple generating facilities. Its field locations are scattered throughout
the PNG side of New Guinea and on the islands of New Britain and Bougainville.
3.02      ELCOM has been remarkably effective at managing its operations and
at operating its facilities. To attain this effectiveness, ELCOM has relied
heavily on expatriates for both guiding operations and management, and devel-
oping local manpower resources. With their help, ELCOM has successfully built
expansion projects, operated its system, adapted modern office technology for
its own use, and introduced some sophisticated managerial systems and proce-
dures. Now, however, ELCOM is beginning to implement a substantial expansion
program (para. 6.16). After completion of that program it will become a
medium sized utility facing much greater technical and managerial complexity
than it does currently. In view of its anticipated future requirements,
ELCOM's results in developing local manpower resources has been dis-
appointing.
3.03      Initially, the Government of PNG asked the Bank to include in the
proposed project an extensive training component aimed at furthering ELCOM's
manpower development objective. In the context of appraisal, an intensive
assessment of ELCOM's potential to adjust to its future role revealed numerous
factors that had frustrated past manpower development efforts, including:



(a)  A lack of standardization among similar jobs;
(b) a profusion of managerial systems and procedures, often including
several aimed at achieving the very same managerial objectives;
(c) except for financial management -,here the development of systems and
procedures was centralized, scant effort to eliminate redundant or
unnecessary activities;
(d) a tendency among expatriates to emphasize their operational
objectives while underplaying their manpower development objectives;
and
(e) a lack of the breadth and depth needed to meet the increased
complexity of technical and managerial demands expected during the
intermediate term future.
In the following analysis, ELCOM's organization, staffing, management, train-
ing, operations and maintenance, commercial practices, and financial systems
and procedures are examined against this background. Where appropriate, the
proposed project includes manpower development components aimed at enhancing
ELCOM's ability to meet its future responsibilities.
B. Organization
Structure
3.04      ELCOM's Board of Commissioners is responsible for establishing
policies and ensuring that management conducts operations effectively and in
accordance with those policies. The Board consists of seven commissioners,
including the Chairman. They are selected from among high-ranking public ser-
vants and distinguished private sector businessmen. They are usually appoin-
ted by the Minister of Minerals and Energy for terms of two years, and may be
reappointed upon completion of their terms.
3.05      ELCOM's organization structure is displayed in Annex 1.  That
structure is similar to the structure of Australian utilities of similar size
and scope. Operations are decentralized, with each location being managed as
a separate entity consisting of units organized to provide specific ser-
vices. The headquarters staff is organized functionally around particular
disciplines. This organization structure is appropriate to ELCOM's current
and anticipated needs.
Personnel and Staffing
3.06      Currently, to correct for past tendencies to carry excessive numbers
of semiskilled and unskilled staff, ELCOM has put in effect a recruitment
freeze and is developing a program for reducing its staff. New personnel can
be recruited only if ELCOM has a vacancy and it can prove both (i) that the
particular position is critical and (ii) that no present employee possesses
the requisite skills. -Otherwise, vacancies must either be filled through



-8-
redeployment or be left unfilled. Table 3.1 shows ELCON's establishment and
staffing, 4istributed according to function, as of August 31, 1985:
Table 3.1:  ELCOM:  ESTABLISHMENT AND STAFFING -- ALLOCATED BY DEPARTMENT
(As of August 31, 1985)
Positions        Positions         Establish-
Department                          filled            vacant              ment
Top management                           11               0                 11
Middle management and staff                               --
- centers and HQ                     718              234                952
Administration                         403              165                568
Commercial                              190              79                269
Planning                                  9              17                 26
Operations and maintenance             421               182               603
Design and construction                 96               83                179
Total                           1,848              760              2,608
3.07      Including 293 temporary appointments who are not counted as staff,
ELCOM had a total of 2,141 employees as of August 31, 1985. This aggregate
number may appear ample for ELCOM's current size and scope; however, it belies
shortages of certain categories of professionals, most particularly engineers
and supervisors. In addition, ELCOM has imbalances between the availability
of, and its deployment requirements for skilled, semiskilled and even some
unskilled staff. Moreover, if expansion proceeds is expected (para. 6.16),
its current establishment could be severely stretched even if all existing
vacancies were filled. In connection with its Management Information System
(para. 3.18), ELCOM is currently installing a well-designed manpower planning
and budgeting procedure; when fully operational, that exercise could greatly
enhance ELCOM's management of its manpower resources.
3.08      At the same time, ELCOM's establishment provides far too many
different categories of staff; and, too often, the level of skills, knowledge,
and qualifications varies greatly for the various jobs within the same cate-
gory. To make more effective ELCOM's efforts at (i) manpower planning;
(ii) manpower development (para. 3.11); and (iii) training (paras. 3.12 and
5.08), ELCOM needs to implement a Job Standardization Study, included under
the proposed project, which would, inter alia, include recommendations for:
(a) simplifying the number of staffing categories;
(b) defining clearly staffing category and job requirements;
(c)  stan4ardizing jobs;



-9-
(d) standardizing to the degree possible skills, knowledge, and
qualifications required for each job; and
(e) developing job manuals.
At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that it will (i) by January 1, 1987t appoint
consultants, according to terms of reference and selection procedures
acceptable to the Bank, to conduct a Job Standardization Study; (ii) by
December 31, 1987, complete the study and discuss its recommendations with the
Bank; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank, implement
those mutually agreed recommendations. Terms of reference for this Study,
which were discussed and agreed at negotiations, are shown in Annex 2.
Expatriate Staff
3.09      As of August 31, 1985, ELCOM employed about 126 expatriates,
distributed functionally as shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: ELCOM'S EXPATRIATE STAFF - ALLOCATED BY DEPARTMENT
(As of August 31, 1985)
Department                         Headquarters     Field offices      Aggregate
Top management                           7                                   7
Middle management and staff              5                 -                 5
Administration                          20                 2                22
Commercial                              19                 -                19
Planning                                 2                 -                 2
Operations and maintenance              25                11                36
Design and construction                 24                11                35
Total                             102                24              126
Most expatriates occupy positions in or serve as advisors to top management of
their departments. They bring to ELCOM levels of expertise which are largely
unavailable among PNG nationals. These expatriates have not only managerial
and advisory functions, but they also have manpower development objectives.
3.10      The Government of PNG has a continuing concern about the increasing
cost to the economy, including related capital outflows, associated with main-
taining the large overall number of expatriates in PNG. It has a policy of
localizing as rapidly as prudently possible the staffs of most large Govern-
ment establishments. In response to this policy, ELCOM abruptly reduced its
expatriate staff after independence, with a consequent rapid deterioration in
the quality of operations and maintenance of plant and equipment, commercial
practices, and manpower development.



- 10 -
3.11      While ELCOM ultimately needs to reduce substantially its reliance on
expatriates, it should not do so prematurely and abruptly once again.
Instead, ELCOM should try to accomplish a phased replacement of expatriates by
suitably trained national officers. In this regard, the expatriates should be
encoutraged to provide enhanced technology transfer and special on-the-job
training to carefully selected local personnel.   The proposed Bank loan would
support this objective through a provision of an allocation of US$1.2 million,
which would be applied to financing some or all of the foreign exchange por-
tion of existing compensation for qualified expatriate senior- and middle-
level managers and advisors, between January 1, 1987 and December .31, 1989.
ELCOM would use the foreign exchange obtained through this allocation to
enable an equal amount of local currency generated from operating revenues to
be invested otherwise in the project; moreover, ELCOM would specifically be
prohibited from using the allocation to increase the compensation of any
expatriate over the level stipulated in that expatriate's contract or,-at
contract renewal, over the level authorized by ELCOM's Board of Commissioners.
Details regarding disbursements against this allocation were discussed and
confirmed during negotiations; accordingly, the amount of disbursements could
be allowed to vary from month to month, provided that it did not exceed
US$60,000 in any given month and that the remaining balance at the end of each
month was sufficient to finance disbursements of at least US$20,000 per month
thereafter. To qualify, an identified expatriate would have assigned to him
for the purposes of technology transfer or on-the-job training, one or more
identified counterpart PNG nationals. Prior to January 1, 1987, the qualified
expatriates would be asked to develop specific training objectives for his
identified couterpart(s); these objectives would include a program for
increasing the scope of the counterpart's responsibility upon attainment of
monitorable levels of improved job related proficiency. ELCOM would furnish
these objectives to the Bank for review t :d comment. Thereafter, ELCOM would
furnish to the Bank a semiannual report summarizing the progress of each
expatriate in pursuing his manpower development objectives. At negotiations,
ELCOM agreed to advise the Bank prior to making any decisions which might
result in major changes to ELCOM's organization.
Training
3.12      ELCOM has for years placed a high priority on formal training.  It
has built and equipped a complete training college adjacent to its headquar-
ters building, provided some training facilities at several of its larger
field offices, and employed numerous expatriate training specialists. Despite
these substantial inputs, the results of ELCOM's training efforts during the
recent past have been disappointing because (a) the training staff emphasized
academic and general training in preference to programs designed to impart
specific skills and knowledge needed for specific jobs, and (b) line managers
were not involved in training and its aftermath sufficiently to ensure that
trainees used the concepts and techniques covered in their courses to improve
job performance. Through administration of the allocation for compensating
expatriates (para. 3.11), ELCOM will use a component of the proposed project
to redirect the attention of line managers toward manpower development and the
necessary direct linkages between formal training, improved job performance,
and greater devolution of responsibility to lower levels of staff. In addi-
tion, the proposed project includes a provision for new training inputs



(para. 5.08), including some fasalities and new training specialists, which
are appropriate to ELCOM's training needs as redefined during appraisal.
Technical Activities
3.13      ELCOM's technical activities are divided into three categories:
(a)  Planning - ELCOM has developed its own ten year (1985-1994)
Generation, Transmission, and Distribution Development Plan.  Now,
it needs to follow this global effort with detailed plans; prepar-
ation of these detailed plans will involve a substantial volume of
complex work, etpecially if the interconnection of the Port Moresby
and Ramu grids is to be undertaken as intended during the period.
ELCOM's capacity to produce this work is limited due to its lack of
suitably experienced and qualified staff. In the near term, ELCOM
will need the continued support of expatriates to realize its
planning activities. In the long term, it needs to decide which of
its planning activities should appropriately be the responsibility
of ELCOM staff and which may be handled by consultants (para. 3.15);
(b)  Design and Construction - ELCOM staff designs and constructs all
distribution and some wood pole transmission lines; consultants and
contractors are used to implement all generation and other trans-
mission projects. For the future, ELCOM's expansion plans are so
extensive that its present staff may have difficulty meeting its own
share of the design and construction responsibilities (para. 3.15).
To the degree possible, ELCOM should standardize designs, materials,
and work methods for all localized construction (para. 3.14); and
fc) Operations and Maintenance - In recent years, ELCOM has operated and
maintained its plant and equipment well in relation to load factor,
plant availability and supply continuity. Transmission and distri-
bution losses have averaged about 10Z,' which is satisfactory in
view of the low customer density and the extensiveness of distribu-
tion networks.  However, with the expected growth in demand and
corresponding increase in complexity of the system, standardized
operational procedures and practices need to be developed and imple-
mented (para. 3.14). In addition, ELCOM needs to review its organi-
zational arrangements to ensure closer coordination betwen opera-
tions and maintenance activities and support systems such as
materials management, manpower planning, financial budgeting and
management information (para. 3.15). The current operation and
maintenance units lack suitably qualified staff to meet likely
future requirements anticipated as a result of ELCOM's projected
growth (para. 3.15).
3/   Not including station use, which amounts to nearly 21 of generation
(para. 4.01).



- 12 -
3.14      In its technical functions, ELCOM is increasingly handicapped by a
lack of standardization. Increased standardization of design of the systems
it constructs could result in increased decentralization of that activity,
with consequent savings resulting from maximizing the use of locally available
materials and enhancing levels of individual productivity. By increasingly
standardizing operations and maintenance procedures, ELCOM could increase the
productivity of its staff and enable training efforts to be more effective.
The proposed project includes a provision of technical assistance aimed at
increasing standardization of ELCOM's technical functions and developing
manuals for standard operating procedures. At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that
it will (i) by January 1, 1987, appoint consultants, according to terms of
reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank, to standardize
ELCOM's technical functions and to prepare manuals for standard operating
procedures; (ii) by December 31, 1987, complete the manuals and discuss the
consultants' recommendations with the Bank; and (iii) according to a schedule
acceptable to the Bank, implement those mutually agreed recommendations.
Terms of reference, which were discussed and agreed at negotiations, are
displayed in Annex 2.
3.15      Once job categories have been defined clearly and activities have
been standardized to the degree practicable, ELCOM needs to assess the range
of its functional activities in the light of resources available to it. It
needs to determine which of those activities should remain under its direct
responsibility and which may be entrusted to consultants and contractors. In
addressing those responsibilities it wishes to retain, it should identify the
resources it needs and the financial and training inputs needed to develop
those resources. To this end, the proposed project contains a provision for a
technical audit. At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that it will (i) by June 30,
1988, appoint consultants, according to terms of reference and a selection
procedure acceptable to the Bank, to conduct a technical audit; (ii) by
January 31, 1989, complete the audit and discuss the consultants' recommenda-
tions with the Bank; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank,
implement those mutually agreed recommendations. Terms of reference, which
were discussed and agreed at negotiations, are displayed in Annex 2.
C. Financial Management
Financial Planning
3.16      ELCOM is one of four Commercial Statutory Authorities required to
submit a five-year rolling financial plan to the Government by December of
each year. In October 1984, ELCOM did submit its first such plan, the basis
of which was the ten year engineering plan (para. 3.13(a)). Formulation of the
financial plan involved substantial coordination between ELCOM's finance staff
and all technical departments.
3.17      ELCOM prepares budgets annually in coordination with the Govern-
ment's budget exercise. The budget is reviewed and updated several times
during the year. ELCOM compiles some operating results monthly and more
comprehensive data quarterly; variance analyses are conducted to establish why
results may have differed from budget.



- 13 -
Management Information Systems
3.18      In early 1984, ELCOM received a US$250,000 technical assistance
grant from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to (a) recommend an integrated
accounting package, adaptable for use with electronic data processing, to
serv-ce ELCOM's future needs for management information, and (b) prepare
internal audit manuals. Touche Ross Services, Pty. of PNG (TR) was selected
to provide this technical assistance. In July 1984, TR recommended using an
integrated accounting system named MIDAS; TR then developed the extensive
manuals needed to adapt MIDAS for ELCOM's use and delivered the r   age to
ELCOM in March 1985.  To date, implementation is proceeding as exed4itiously
as prudently possible. An accounts payable system is already in operation.
The general ledger system is scheduled for introduction in January 1986. The
inventory control system is scheduled for introduction in February 1986* and
the fixed asset accounting system will be introduced thereafter, most likely
in June 1986. All organization changes needed to accomodate the management
information system have been made and ELCOM is currently trying to recruit
necessary suitably qualified speoialists.
Electronic Data Processing
3.19      ELCOM began computerizing its activities in early 1981 with the
purchase of a small mainframe computer. In January 1982, ELCOM began operat-
ing a live general ledger system, which included production of various manage-
ment reports. In late 1983, ELCOM introduced a computerized revenue billing
system, with Port Moresby becoming the first center to have its customer
accounts maintained on the computer. The payroll system was computerized in
early 1984. Also in early 1984, ELCOM substantially upgraded its computer
hardware. Since then, a number of ELCOM officers have arranged the purchase
of a variety of personal computers. To cope with this proliferation of
different hardware and software, a Computer Policy Committee was-formed to
review the purchase of new equipment and standardize future electronic data
processing development at ELCOM.
Commercial Practices
3.20      Accounts Receivable.  ELCOM's commercial systems are necessarily
slow and cumbersome due to the lack of reliable mail service (for that reason,
many trade credits in PNC assume a 45 day payment period). Even so, ELCOM's
recent performance at billing and collecting has been disappointing (para.
6.04) and ELCOM is currently taking remedial action. ELCOM's systems and
procedures differ depending on whether or not the consumer is a governrment
agency; collections from governmental consumers are much slower than from the
general public. All of ELCOM's consumers are metered.
3.21      Government Consumers.  The meters on each government installation
are intended to be read monthly. When all bills for all installations belong-
ing to a particular Ministry (or Department) have been accumulated, a single
itemized bill is written and sent to that Ministry. This results in a single
large claim which will not be paid until the individual Ministry has verified
all included line items. In some cases, this process means that bills may be
outstanding for as much as 90 days. The Government of PNG has agreed that



- 14 -
ELCOM may now remit bills for larger installations directly to the individual
Ministry as soon as the particular meter is read, and separate from all other
bills pertaining to that Ministry'. ELCOM believes this could shorten the
collection time at least for bills pertaining to larger government installa-
tions by as much as 20 days. ELCOM has tried, with unfavorable results,
discotnecting installations belonging to Ministries which had protracted their
payments excessively.
3.22      General Public Consumers.  ELCOM's policy is that each consumer's
meter should be read monthly by a meter reader, who enters the reading onto a
preproduced bill generated at headquarters. That preproduced bill includes
any outstanding balance. The customer has two days from the rendering of a
bill to pay any opening balance (thus implying a 32 day payment cycle). ELCOM
disconnects without exception customers who are in default within very few
days of the due date's passing. As a result, it experiences very few
instances of default among general public consumers.
3.23      ELCOM's principal internal problem in collecting from both govern-
mental and general public consumers is that the current staff of meter readers
has not been able to keep pace with the rate of growth of consumer connec-
tions. As meters are not being read as intended every 30 days, bills on the
books represent much more than 32 days' consumption (para. 6.04). ELCOM is
currently strengthening its staff of meter readers and is exploring approaches
for making them more productive. As ELCOM's operating cash flow expands, it
cannot afford to manage its billing and collection activities loosely. If the
steps that are already being taken -- namely, (i) increasing the number of
meter readers; (ii) increasing the productivity of meter readers; and
(iii) billing large government installations separately -- do not succeed in
shortening the period of outstanding accounts receivables, ELCOM may need to
consider adopting other measures to realize that objective. At negotiations,
ELCOM gave an undertaking that it will reduce accounts receivable (net of
unread meter accruals) and maintain them at less than 45 days' sales,
beginning in 1986.
3.24      Accounts Payable.  In periods of constrained liquidity, ELCOM has
obtained short-term finance inter alia, by stretching its accounts payable
(para. 6.04).  As it grows, ELCOM  1TE become increasingly reliant on receiv-
ing favorable commerical credit terms. Such favorable terms would b;e avail-
able only if ELCOM observes continual discipline in managing its accounts
payable. At negotiations, ELCOM gave an undertaking that it will maintain
accounts payable (net of accrued interest) at the aggregate of (a) one and one
half month's construction expenditures and.(b) one and one half month's cash
operating expenses.
Accounting
3.25      ELCOM uses a double entry commercial accounting system patterned
after the one being used by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria,
Australia. The system was first adopted in 1963, and was modified in 1977 to
improve the system's costing procedures. Otherwise, the only substantive
changes were those necessitated by adaptation of the system for computeriza-
tion. The accounting system is adequate and appropriate for ELCOM.



- 15 -
External Audit
3.26      ELCON's annual accounts must be audited by the Auditor General's
Department, or its nominee. Until 1981, the audit was performed by the Audi-
tor General's own stafft thereafter, ELCOM's audit was performed by major
accounting firms (TR between 1981-83, and Peat Marwick Mitchell of PNG in
1984), acting on behalf of the Auditor General. Accounting and auditing
standards are established and monitored by the PUG Associotion of Accountants
Inc. In turn, the Auditor General has a stated objective that audits for
Government bodies should meet internationally acceptable stsadards. As a
result, ELCOM's audit reports for the recent past have been comprehensive,
thorough, and well documented. These audit arrangements are satisfactory. At
negotiations, ELCOM agreed that six months after the end of each financial
year, it will furnish to the Bank audited annual accounts for the year just
concluded, together with the certification and report of an acceptable
auditor.
Internal Audit
3.27      ELCOM has an active internal audit unit.  The unit reviews
continuously the accounts at field offices and headquarters for accuracy and
for conformity to accounting standards; until recently, however, it did not
review the appropriateness of accounting procedures. In 1984, TR prepared
internal audit manuals (para 3.11). In addition to its past activities, the
internal audit unit will review (a) the appropriateness of accounting
procedures; (b) inputs and outputs of the management information system; and
(c) inputs for and the compilation of ELCOM's annual financial statements.
ELCOM is currently recruiting from within PN5 and abroad, suitably qualified
personnel needed to implement these new activities. The range and scope of
ELCOM's internal audit activities are satisfactory.
Insurance
3.28      ELCOM has been insuring its assets against large risks with
commercial insurers. In order to maintain premiums at acceptable levels, its
commercial policies include large deductible provisions (K 1 million on each
casualty loss, up to an aggregate maximum of K 2 million in any calendar
year). ELCOM believes it has adequate liquidity or, alternatively, access to
short term credit to cover these deductibles. ELCOW's risk management activi-
ties have been satisfactory to its commercial insurers; moreover, its casualty
losses have been minor in recent years. These insurance arrangements are
satisfactory.
Income Taxes
3.29      ELCOM has been subject to income tax since 1983.  The tax rate is
35% of taxable income. Taxable income is defined as income after interest
charged to operations and deductions allowed under the tax code. Currently,
those deductions include (a) an allowance of 100% of training expenses (which
effectively means that training expenses are subtracted twice from revenues
for tax purposes) and (b) all interest during construction (which gets capita-
lized and is not charged to revenues for reporting purposes).



- 16 -
IV. ELCOM'S POWER MARKET AND THE PROGRAM
A. ELCOM's Operations
4,01      ELCOM's operations are conducted from 25 load center facilities,
which supplied 421 GWh to about 43,000 consumers in 1984. Of this total
consumption, 121 CGh (or 29%) were for domestic use and the balance (71%) was
for commercial/industrial consumption. At the end of 1984, ELCOM's total
installed capacity was about 195 MW, consisting of about 117 MW of hydro (60%)
and 78 MW of thermal generation (40%). The major generating stations are
listed in Annex 3. Table 4.1 below, which shows ELCOM's annual growth rates
of energy generation, sales and number of consumers from 1974/75 to 1984,
demonstrates the changed market situation. In addition, ELCOM purchased for
resale 32-58 GWh from privately owned sources of generation. Total system
losses were about 12%, including station use. ELCOM's operating statistics
and electricity sales by category of consumers are given in Annexes 4 and 5
respectively.
Table 4.1: ELCOM's INSTALLED CAPACITY, ENERGY GENERATION, SALES AND CONSUMERS
Installed        Energy        Energy         Number
Capacity       Generation      Sales       of Consumers
Year                     (MW)/a           (MW)/b        (GWh)        (1,000)
1974/75                      89            289.0         256.0          26.7
1975/76                     115            315.0         214.0          28.4
1976/77                     111            335.0          303.0-        30.1
1977 (1/2 year)             121            183.0         153.0          30.9
1978                        140            387.0         340.0          32.4
1979                        166            440.0         380.0          38.2
1980                        175            465.0         410.0          39.5
1981                        176            460.0         423.0          40.9
1982                        192            443.0         394.0          41.6
1983                        217            452.0         398.0          42.5
1984                        204            479.0         421.0          42.7
Average rate of growth    9.1%               5.5%           5.4%         5.1%
/a   Includes purchased capacity (9-12 MW) from private sources.
75   Includes purchased energy (32-58 GWh) from private sources.
4.02      The largest load centers are served through three independent
systems, which although modest in size, are integrated networks: (i) the Port
Moresby System serving the National Capital District (City of Port Moresby) as
well as surrounding towns in Central Province; (ii) the Ramu System serving
Lae, Kadang, and the Highlands region; and (iii) the Gazelle Peninsula System



-17-
serving the Rabaul, Kereuat and Kokopo areas in East New Britain Province.
The PNG electricity systems are depicted in Map IBRD 19385. The transmission
and substation facilities for the three independent systems are listed in
Annex 6. The Port Moresby and Ramu Systems (details in Annex 7) alone account
for more than-75% of the power generated by ELCON, with the balance shared by
the Gazelle Peninsula System and the many isolated generating facilities,
which usually serve single localities.
4.03      In the period 1974/75 to 1984, energy generation has been growing at
an average annual rate of about 4.0X for the Port Moresby System and 5.6X for
the Ramu system. Growth rates in peak demand and energy generation over the
past 10 years are shown in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: HISTORICAL LOAD GROWTH
Peak Demand (KW)               Energy Generation (GWH)
Year          Port Moresby        Ram-i           Port Moresby      Ramu
1974(75             23.7             -                   129            -
1975/76             25.5           16.8                  142          104
1976/77             27.8           20.4                   154         115
1977 (1/2 year)     28.1           21.1                   79           60
1978                31.3           23.6                  176          135
1979                34.8           25.4                  192          138
1980                35.6           28.1                  195          156
1981                36.4           28.7                  182          159
1982                35.8           27.5                  183          150
1983                36.4           27.7                  184          154
1984                42.4           29.9                  199          165
Average rate of
growth (p.a.)      6.3%           7.0%                  4.0%         5.6%
4.04      Past load growth in the Ramu System was rapid in the late 1970s due
to the economic expansion of that period, followed by considerably slower
growth in the early 1980s resulting from (a) unreliable power supply caused by
poor maintenance during late 70s and early 80s; (b) high tariffs caused by
rising fuel prices and dry weather conditions; and (c) the economic
recession. Of the 155 GWh energy sales in 1985 (the first full year of
industrial tariffs) in the Ramu system, 22.6% have been consumed by domestic
users, 61.3% by commercial and small industrial enterprises, and 16.1% by
larger industries. Annexes 8 and 9 give details of energy sales by categories
of users from 1978 to 1985 for Port Moresby and Ramu respectively.
4.05      The distances between the Port Moresby and Ramu grids (on the order
of 420 km) and the relatively small magnitude of their demands ard rates of
growth, have juitified their continued isolation through the 1970s and 1980s;
but integration of the resources within the two largest grids through a
unified high voltage system is a future ELCOM objective.



- 18 -
B. Load Forecast
4.06      The load forecasts of ELCOM as a whole, and the Port Morseby and
Ramu grids separately, were made by analyzing historical energy sales data by
consumer category for each load center. Trends=in growth of the number of
consumers and average use were noted and projections were extrapolated
according to these trends, taking into account the future economic environment
of the load center. Information on future economic developments in each load
center was obtained from various government departments and consultations at
site with local government and business officials. The energy sales forecasts
also included projections of new large consumers developed in the context of
an on-going power market survey of ELCOM's local centers.  Energy sales
projections for each load center were consolidated to provide overall ELCOM,
as well as Port Moresby and Ramu, load forecasts. Energy requirements from
the supply systems were derived from the total energy sales by applying appro-
priate losses developed from historical data. Peak demand was then derived
from energy requirements by applying an appropriate system load factor.
Energy requirements and peak demand of ELCOM for the period 1985-1995 are
shown in Annex 10. The load forecasts of Port Moresby and Ramu are shown in
the following table:
Table 4.2: LOAD FORECAST (1985-1995)
Peak Demand (MW)            Energy Generation (GWh)
Port Moresby     Ramu          Port Moresby       Ramu
1985                     43.3        32.4             218.9          179.0
1986                     45.9        35.8             323.3          197.6
1987                     46.8        39.9             244.1          220.4
1988                     49.2        43.0             256.6          237.0
1989                     51.6        46.5             269.0          256.6
1990                     53.2        50.3             280.7          277.1
1991                     55.5        54.3             297.9          299.9
1992                     58.6        59.0             313.0          324.4
1993                     61.7        63.6             329.0          351.2
1994                     64.9        69.2             347.9          381.7
1995                     67.5        75.0             360.0          413.5
Average growth
Rate (S P.a.)           4.5         8.8               5.1            8.7
4.07      The Ramu System is expected to be the fastest growing supply system
in PUG and surpass the Port Moresby system's total load in 1991. The peak
demand and energy generation for the Ramu System would be increased from 32 MW
and 179 GWh in 1985 to 75 MW and 413 GWh in 1995, representing an annual rate
of about 8.7%.



- 19 -
4.08      This load forecast is reasonable considering that:  (a) the load
growth in the early years 1985 to 1987 reflects a number of conservative
assumptions, including (i) a decrease in the real value of tariffs with only
minor tariff increases over the next two to three years; (ii) the introduction
of an industrial tariff that discourages autogeneration 4t; (iii) economic
recovery from the world recession of 1981-83; and (iv) the connection of a
number of tea and coffee factories and government centers in the highlands;
(b) the population of the supply area of the Ramu system is approximately 2
million, representing about two thirds of the nation's total population, And
rural communities there close to the system are likely to be connected as
their financial health improves; and (c) energy sales are apt to grow rapidly
in the early 19909 as 8aresgXt of the likely beneficial effects of both the
Porgera Gold Mining Project- on the local economy and the connection by road
of the highlands region with Port Moresby.
C. Power Development Programs for Port Moresby and Ramu Systems
4.09      Power expansion planning is mainly conducted by ELCOM with the
assistance of consultants. The extensive investigations made by ELCOM and its
consultants, Gibb Australia and Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation of
Australia (SMEC), have considered a number of alternative power system devel-
opment programs for both the Port Moresby and Ramu systems.  The system
development programs examined included alternative scenarios involving hydro
plants, thermal plants and possible interconnection of the two major systems
by a transmission line (para. 7.01). The study has indicated that the optimum
power development program for the Port Moresby and Ramu systems is as follows:
(a) a 12 MW heavy-oil diesel plant at Moitaka in the Port Moresby system
by the end of 1984;
(b) a 13 MW hydroelectric power station at the Rouna IV site in the Port
Moresby System by the end of 1986;
(c) an additional 6 MW heavy-oil diesel plant at Moitaka in the Port
Moresby system by the end of 1987;
4/   A recent survey conducted by ELCOM estimates 15 MW of the private
generation capacity in areas which ELCOM could service without
significant distribution expense, including approximately 7.3 MW in Lae,
2.5 MW in Coroka and 3.6 MW in Mt. Hagen. Autogeneration in 1984 is
estimated to account for 40-50 CWh of energy. Assuming ELCOM supplies
50% of this demand, its load will increase by 20-25 Giii.
5/   The load of the Porgera gold mine (17-45 MW depending on production rate)
is not included in the forecast as it may be built as an enclave project
using local hydro generation. Two further projects planned for the late
1980's, early 1990's are (a) two cement factories near Lae (4 MW); and
(b) the Bundi chromite mine near Madang (about 10 MW). These loads are
also not included in the forecasts.



20 -
(d) a 12 NW gas turoine plant at Lae in the Ramu system by the end of
1987;
(e) a regulating reservoir upstream of the existing Ramu I Power station
at Yonki in the Ramu system by the end of 1990;
(f) installation of 2 x 15 MW turbine-generator units in the existing
Ramu I Power station by the end of 1990;
(g) a high-voltage transmission line interconnection between the Port
Moresby and Ramtu system for completion in the period 1990-95,
following commissioning of the Yonki Dam; and
(h) a 5 x 18 MW hydroelectric power station at the Ramu 2A site in the
proposed Ramu-Port Moresby interconnected system in 1995.
4.10      A review of the development program supports ELCOM's decision to
start the proposed Yonki Hydroelectric Project as expeditiously as possible.
It also shows that the construction of the proposed Yonki Hydroelectric
Project is fully justified by load growth expectations in the Ramu System
alone, and does not depend on the potential interconnection of the Port
Moresby and Ramu Systems. Nevertheless, following completion of the proposed
Yonki Hydroelectic Project, the Ramu System is likely to have some excess
energy available; this energy could be used in the Port Moresby System during
the 1990-1994 period, if a transmission interconnection between the two
systems were constructed.  The transmission interconnection needs to be
carefully investigated.  The appropriate timing for the interconnection is now
being studied under an ADB technical assistance project. The Ramu System's
balance of system load and capacity is given in Annex 11.
4.11      ELCOM's generation expansion plan, 1985-1995, includes ongoing works
totaling 26.7 MW, and new projects of 140 MW capacity (including the Yonki
Hydroelectric Project). The cost of the expansion plan (excluding interest
during construction) is estimated at about K 298.8 million (US$298.8 million)
for the period 1985-1995. Of that total, K 183.7 million (US$183.7 million)
represents foreign costs and K 115.1 million (US$115.1 million) represents
local costs (Annex 12).
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
5.01      The proposed project supports a major hydroelectric power
development which would reduce the PNG's dependence on costly imported oil
insofar as ELCOM's operations are concerned, and replace it with indigenous
hydro resources. Besides this, the proposed project furthers objectives
including:
(a) adequate training and institutional support to assist ELCOM's
development of its local staff resources;



- 21 -
(b) development of an institutional and policy framework for future
rural electrification efforts; and -
(c) cofinancing.
B.  Project Description
5.02      The proposed project is located on the Ramu River in the Eastern
Highlands of PNG, about 190 km by road from Lae and 24 km from Kainantu (see
Map IBRD 19385).  The Yonki dam is the first of a four-stage Ramu Hydroelec-
tric Development Scheme.  The dam site is adjacent to the Yonki township, near
where the Highlands Highway crosses the Ramu River, and approximately 3 km
upstream from the existing Ramu I run-of-the-river power station. The -
construction of the dam will provide a storage reservoir to increase the firm
energy of the Ramu 1 from the existing 126 GWh level to 418 GWh, and the firm
energy of the planned Ramu 2A and Ramu 3 hydroelectric stations.
5.03      The proposed project comprises:
(a) construction of a 60 m high dam, a spillway system and outlet
structure, and associated works;
(b) installation of two additional 15 MW generating units together with
step-up transformers in the spaces provided at the Ramu I power
station;
(c) relocation of a part of the Highlands Highway and local access
roads, together totalling 22 Kn;
(d) engineering and consulting services;
(e) a training program;
(f) technical assistance for manpower development and institutional
support; and
(g) a rural electrification component.
Yonki Dam - Main Civil Works.
5.04      The Dam comprises the following main civil works:  (a) construction
of a 60 m high zoned earthfill dam with a total embankment volume of about
1.8 million cu. m; (b) an ungated concrete chute type spillway with a crest
length of 85 m; (c) the diversion and outlet works, consisting of twin 4.0 m
diameter concrete culverts appoximately 430 m long (one conduit to be steel
lined to form a permanent outlet conduit), a concrete outlet tower measuring
7 m in diameter and 46 m high, and associated gate structure; (d) a concrete
dissipator structure and associated outlet works control valves; (e) the
relocation of 6 km of the Highlands Highway, including relocation over the dam
crest and across a bridge over the spillway; (f) the construction of
approximately 16 km of local access roads above flood level near the reservoir
area (Annex 13).



- 22 -
Engineering and Consulting Services
5.05      In September 1984, a joint venture of SMEC in association with
Cardno and Davies of PNG was selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
as the consulting engineer, to provide the following services:
Stage I
(a)  update and extension of previous studies in order to bring the
proposed project to full feasibility status; and
(b)  preparation of a detailed cost estimate and construction schedule.
State II
(a)  preparation of detailed design drawings, schedules, bills of
quantities, tender specifications and conditions of contract; and
(b)  preparation of prequalification documents for contractors and
assistance in prequalification evaluation, and preparation of full
tender documentation for the project.
Stage III
(a)  preparation of supplementary notices to amend tender documents, if
necessary; and
(b)  assistance for tender evaluation.
5.06      This project preparation activity is being co-financed by a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) financed by the Bank pt)d a grant from the
Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).' The terms of contract have
been agreed between ELCON and SMEC (in association with Cardno and Davies).
Their engineering and consulting service commenced in October 1984. The
consulteacy has been extended to include construction supervision, project
control and responsibility for the final commissioning of the works. Terms of
reference foi the 'onettuction management services are given in Annex 14. An
Engineering Review Board (ERR) has been established to advise on the design
and safety aspects of the Yonki dam. Since November 1984, ERB has made three
visits to the site to review the investigation, layout and design of the Yonki
Dam. ELCOM will continue using the services of ERB throughout construction of
the proposed project.
5.07      A full feasibility report for the proposed project was completed in
August 1985 and reviewed by ELCOM, ERB and the Bank. The detailed study has
concluded that construction of a storage reservoir at Yonki is feasible. The
6/   US$1 million from the Bank in the form of a PPF which will be refinanced
from the proposed loan, and AUD$1.45 million from ADAB in the form of a
artubdable grant.



- 23 -
tender documents and the civil works prequalification evaluation report
prepared by SMEC were reviewed in detail by the Bank and ERB.
Training, Manpower Development and Institutional Support
5.08      Initially, ELCOM asked the Bank to include in the proposed project a
training program with substantial incremental inputs of training specialists
and facilities (para. 3.12). At appraisal, ELCON and the Bank determined
instead that ELCOM's existing training activities (with some minor incremental
inputs) could produce the results desired if (a) training curricula were
adjusted to make them more relevant to job performance and (b) greater
standardization of jobs and operating procedures, aimed at increasing the
fungibility of training (paras. 3.06-3.15) were introduced. Thus, the
proposed project includes a number of components which, taken together, are
intended to increase the effectiveness of ELCOM's existing manpower
development efforts. Specifically, these components are:
(a)  ELCOM's existing training program. The existing program is included
in the proposed project because all other incremental inputs have
been designed to enhance its effectiveness. ELCOM would continue
implementing this program regardless of whether it would undertake
the proposed project. ELCOM would finance from operating revenues
the cost of the existing program, estimated at about US$1.9 million
equivalent per year  in constant prices (or, for the entire project
period, US$9.4 million equivalent in constant prices); it would
account for these costs as operating expenses.
(b) New training inputs. These include:
(i) A provision for three training specialists with wide experience
in organizing electric utility training programs and proce-
dures. These specialists would be retained for about two years
each, according to terms of reference which were discussed with
and found acceptable by the Bank (Annex 15). Employment of these
three specialists would cost about US$1.1 million.
(ii) A provision to upgrade existing training facilities and furnish
new equipment specifically related to training in operation and
maintenance of power system plant and equipment. These new or
upgraded facilities would cost about US$1.2 million.
(iii) A provision of overseas fellowships to selected PNG nationals
among ELCOM's senior staff. These overseas fellowships would
cost about US$0.3 million.
These new inputs would represent incremental expenses which the Bank
would finance in their entirety. However, consistent with normal
practice in PNG, the cost of these inputs would be deducted from
operating revenues as and when incurred, and not capitalized.
(c)  Technical assistance for specific manpower development activities,
including:



- 24 -
(i) A study to categorize and standardize jobs and prepare job
manuals (para. 3.08), estimated to cost about US$0.3 million;
(ii) A consultancy to standardize ELCOM's technical functions and
prepare manuals for standard operating procedures (para. 3.14),
estimated to cost about US$0.7 million; and
(iii) A consultancy to perform a technical audit (para. 3.15),
estimated to cost about US$0.3 million.
These consultancies would-represent incremental inputs and their
cost would be financed entirely by the Bank. ELCOM would capitalize
the cost of these consultancies.
(d) Institutional support. Through use of an allocation of US$1.2
illion to help defray a portion of the foreign exchange required to
compensate existing expatriates at existing compensation levels,
ELCOM will attempt to redirect the effort of those expatriates
toward their manpower development objectives (para. 3.11). These
expenditures would not be incremental. Bank finance would be used
only to the extent that ELCOM would invest an equal amount of local
currency in other project expenditures.
At negotiations, ELCOM agreed to implement training in accordance with a
program that was discussed with and found acceptable by the Bank.
Rural Electrification.
5.09      Initially, ELCOM asked the Bank to include in the proposed project a
substantial rural electrification component. At appraisal, ELCOM indicated it
had made a preliminary plan to extend distribution networks in certain rural
areas to substitute for diesel generation where economically justified, and to
supply adjacent unsupplied villages from these extensions, also where economi-
cally justified. However, the cost of extending supply for rural electrifica-
tion in most parts of PNC must necessarily be high due to long distances,
difficult terrain, and the low density of consumers; and the financial returns
must necessarily be low, especially in the earlier years before adequate
demand develops and load factor improves. The initial proposal presumed that
ELCOM would execute rural electrification subprojects and operate and maintain
the resultant systems, without a satisfactory analysis of the economic or
financial impact of these activities on ELCOM. While the Government and ELCOM
had developed policies for selecting, implementing and supporting rural elec-
trification activities, these policies had not been properly documented and
the Bank was unable to evaluate either the policies themselves, the consis-
tency of the proposed subprojects with this policy base, or even the role that
the Covernment had assigned to rural electrification in its development
planning. Moreover, ELCOM expressed a need to examine and refine its design
and construction standards to ensure that the subprojects indeed met least
cost criteria. Therefore, the project's originally proposed rural electrifi-
cation component was revised at appraisal to provide these prerequisites and
enable undertaking certain acceptable rural electrification pilot projects
thereafter. It now includes the following components:



- 25 -
(a) Extension of electricity supply networks which would provide
immediate socio-economic benefits to residents in the vicinity of
the proposed project;
(b) A study to document and amplify on rural electrification policy and
standards. The study would make specific recommendations regard-
ing: (i) financing and pricing policy issues related to load
development prospects and the capital and operating costs to be used
in subproject design; (ii) the institutional and policy framework,
project criteria, and procedures for implementing rural electrifica-
tion tailored to the specific needs of PNG; (iii) design and con-
struction standard for distribution extensions, together with
training requirements in connection with those standards; and
(iv) social and economic factors and the use of unquantifiable bene-
fits for clarifying criteria for selecting rural electrification
projects. Although the study would address Government policy
issues, ELCOM is likely to be the study's principal beneficiary;
therefore it should be expected to finance and execute the study.
At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that it will (i) by January 1, 1987,
appoint consultants, according to terms of reference (Annex 16) and
a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank, to assist in conduct-
ing a study of policies and standards for future rural electrifica-
tion activity; (ii) by March 31, 1988, complete the study and
discuss with the Bank the preliminary findings; and (iii) according
to a schedule acceptable to the Bank, implement the mutually agree-
Able recommendations of the study. The Government of PNG agreed to
assist ELCOM with the study and participate, as appropriate, in the
discussion with the Bank; and
(c) An allocation of US$1.8 million to finance future rural electri-
fication pilot projects acceptable to the Bank, which are developed
in accordance with the po'icy criteria established under the rural
electrification study, and which would be implemented between July
1988 and July 1990. This 4llocation would be disbursed only on the
conditions that the rural electrification study has been completed
and that the Bank agrees with those of the study's recommendations
being implemented.
C. Project Cost Estimate
5.10      The estimated cost of the proposed project is summarized below:



- 26 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local /a     Foreign    Total   Foreign cost
------- (US$ million) -------   as Z of total
Civil works                       14.0          21.0       35.0           60
Electrical & mechanical            2.0           5.0         7.0          71
Engineerinf & consulting
serviceB zb                      3.0           5,6        8.C           65
Construction related
establishment expenses           5.5            -         5.5            -
Training                           9.4           2.6        12.0          22
Manpower development studies        -            1.3         1.3         100
Institutional support
technical assistance              -            1.2        1.2          100
Rural electrification               1.2          2.4         3.6          67
Base Cost XC                   35.1          39.1       74.2           53
contingencies
Physical /d                     4.2           5.0        9.2           54
Price                           7.7           8.5       16.2           53
Total Project Cost             47.0          52.6       99.6           52
Interest during construction       7.3          10.5        17.8          59
Total Financing Requirement       54.3          63.1       117.4          54
/a   US$ 1 = K1.
7b   Includes US$1 million PPF from the Bank, which will be refinanced from
the proposed loan, and US$1 million equivalent grant from ADAB.
/c   Includes import duties and taxes of about US$1.2 million equivalent.
7-  Physical contingencies include 15% for civil works, and 10% for
electrical and mechanical equipment, training and rural electrification.
5.11      The cost estimate is based on end-1985 price levels.  Unit rates for
civil works were estimated on the basis of current prices in PNC for equip-
ment, materials and labour. Also taken into consideration were prices
tendered for construction projects in the Highlands of PNG and in some cases
prices tendered from construction projects in Malaysia. The rates so obtained
were applied to the bill of quantities for each feature to arrive at the cost
of the civil works. Cost estimates for the supply and erection of electrical
and mechanical .Lant have been developed from prices for recently awarded con-
tracts for equ pment of similar characteristics. Physical contingencies
include an overall contingency of 15% for civil works, and 10% for electrical
and mechanical equipment, rural electrification, technical assistance and
training. The price contingencies for all foreign and local costs were



- 27 -
estimated on the basis of assumed annual rates of escalation of 7% for 1986
and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7Z for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5% thereafter. A
detailed project cost estimate is given in Annex 17.
D.  Project Financina
5.12      The proposed project is expected to cost US$117.4 miliion (including
interest during construction), of which US$63.1 million represents foreign
cost and US$54.3 million, local cost. The Government of PNG has agreed, in
principle, to cofinancing arrangements wherein the Bank would provide about
US$28.5 million (25% of the total financing requirements excluding duties and
taxes), the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan about US$38.0
million, and the European Investment Bank (EIB) about US$16 million. The
foreign costs of the project would be met from the following constituents:
(i) US$15.8 million from the proposed Bank loan, which would cover 25% of
total foreign costs; (ii) about US$26.8 million from the OECF loans;
(iii) about US$9.0 million from the EIB loan; (iv) about US$1.0 million from7,
the ADAB grant; and (v) about US$10.5 million from internal cash generation.-
About US$30.9 million from the balance of the EIB, OECF and Bank loans will
cover a portion of local costs. ELCOM is expected to finance US$33.9 million
of the total project cost from internal cash generation, specifically includ-
ing all of the local costs associated with training. Ninety-eight percent of
the total cost (i.e., the total excluding duties and taxes) of the main civil
works is expected to be financed jointly by the three cofinancers. The total
expenditure of engineering and consulting services and the foreign cost of
training, technical assistance for manpower development and rural
electrification will be financed solely by the Bank. OECF would finance on a
parallel basis, the electrical and mechanical equipment. Cross-effectiveness
of the cofinancing arrangements would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan. The tentative financing arrangement for this project would be
as shown in Table 5.2:
7/   ELCOM's financing of foreign exchange would be restricted to interest
during construction.



- ~- 28 -
Table 5.2:  FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
Source of                            Local'            Foreign         Total
financing                                     -  (US$ million) ----
IBRD                                   12.7            15.8 /a           28.5
ADAR                                     -              1.0               1.0
EIB                                     7.0             9.0              16.0
OECF                                   11.2            26.8              38.0
Internal Cash Generation               23.4            10.5 /b           33.9
Total                         54.3            63.1            117.4
/a   Includes US$1 million PPF, which will be refinanced from the proposed
loan.
lb   Both OECF and EIB will not permit the use of its funds to finance
interest during construction.  As the Kina is a freely convertible
currency, ELCOM has the capacity to purchase the foreign exchange needed
to meet interest during construction not otherwise financed.
E. Procurement
5.13      The proposed project will include one major contract for the main
civil works and one electrical and mechanical equipment contract. The main
civil works, being financed jointly by the three cofinancers, will be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. Materials and equipment for training and rural
electrification, being financed solely by the proposed Bank loan, would be
grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured in accordance with the
Bank's limited international bidding procedures. Margins of preference to
domestis manufacturers would not apply in this case because equipment and
materials required for the project are not produced locally. Minor items of
equipment (not exceeding US$100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.0 million), could be procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures or on the basis of international and local shopping based
on comparing price quotations from at least three qualified foreign or local
suppliers to ensure competitive prices. Engineering and consulting services
financed solely by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. Contracts over US$100,000 would be reviewed by the Bank prior to
issuance.
5.14      The electromechanical equipment financed solely by OECF will be
procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with OECF procure-
ment guidelines.



- 29 -
5.15      The procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Table 5.3:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method        (US$ million)
Project element                          ICB        Others
Total cost
Civil works                            48.5             -               48.5
(10.0) /a                       (10.0)
Electrical and mechanical.                             9.7               9.7
Engineering and consulting                -           10.9              10.9
(8.9)             (8.9)
Construction related establishment
expenses                                             7 1.0             7.0
Training                                              18.9              18.9
(6.6)            (6.6)
aural electrification                                  4.6               4.6
(3.0)            (3.0)
Total                            48.5           51.1              99.6
(10.0)        (18.5)            (28.5)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed
by the proposed Bank loan.
F. Project Implementation
5.16      ELCOM is the implementing agency for the proposed project.  During
construction ELCOM will be responsible for implementing the project assisted
by the SMEC. ERB would also inspect the site from time to time during the
construction period. ELCOM's management has established a construction unit
to coordinate project implementation and supervise construction. The manager
of the construction unit and other key staff have already been appointed.
Support staff will be organized for coordination with ELCOM's staff at the
site, the engineering consultant and the various groups concerned with land,
ecological and sociological issues; and also for recording project costs and
preparing progress reports. The organization of this construction unit is
shown in Annex 18. The proposed establishment and staffing of the project
implementation unit is satisfactory to the Bank. The Yonki township has been
well maintained and will serve as the headquarters for ELCOM's construction
supervision unit.



- 30 -
5.17      Tenders for the main civil works have been opened in March 1986, and
the contract will be awarded by August 1986, immediately after loan approval.
For the electromechanicaL contract, tenders were invited in early 1986 and the
contract will be awarded by late 1986. The main civil works construction is
expected to begin in November 1986 and be sufficiently completed before March
1990 to allow maximum storage before that year's wet season ends. The commis-
sioning dates for Ramu I units 4 and 5 are scheduled for May and September
1990 respectively. A detailed construction schedule is shown in Annex 19.
The total construction time, including the time needed for rerouting of the
highway over the dam crest, is expected to be about four years.
5.18      ELCOM will retain consultants under terms satisfactory to the Bank
for the implementation of the institutional development technical assistance
and the rural electrification study, and for supervision of constrvction of
the proposed project. ELCOM estimates needing 790 man-months of consulting
and training services for the training program (80 man-months), job class-
ification study (24 man-months), development of standard operating procedures
(50 man-months), technical audit (18 man-months), rural electrification study
(18 man-months) and construction supervision (600 man-months). Annexes 2, 14,
15, 16 and 20 present the proposed terms of reference and the implementing
schedules for the services mentioned above. In view of the interrelationship
between several of the institutional support efforts, ELCOM may elect to
combine them into a single consultancy. Otherwise, ELCOM is aware that it
will need to coordinate the consultants' efforts.
C. Disbursement
5.19      Disbursements for the civil works would cover about 98Z qf total
expenditures and would be prorated between the three cofinancers.l'  The Bank
loan would be disbursed against 10OZ of the total expenditures of consulting
services, and 100% of the foreign exchange cost of other technical
assistance. For materials and equipment for training and rural electrifi-
cation, the Bank loan would be disbursed against (i) 100l of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported materials and equipment and (ii) 85% of
total expenditures for imported equipment procured locally off-the-shelf. For
minor items of materials and equipment financed by the Bank, not exceeding
US$100,000 per contract, a Statement of Expenditure, prepared and certified by
ELCOM, constitutes acceptable documentation for disbursement purposes.
Relevant supporting documents, however, will be retained by ELCOM and will be
made available for review by Bank supervision missions. The $1.0 million
advance from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, used to finance the
8/ During negotiations, it was agreed that for the civil works contract to
be financed by RIB, OECF and the Bank, that the Project Control Section
of ELCOM would coordinate with the contractor, through the engineer, to
facilitate payment. EIB would be sent an advance billing so that EIB
would be able to arrange payment to the Borrower and ELCOM before the due
date. It is proposed that OECF and the Bank would make direct payments
to the contractor upon receipt of an invoice. EIB will reimburse about
18% of the contract; OECF 59%; and IBRD 21%.



-31-
of the consultant services for project preparation, will be refinanced through
the loan. The proposed Project contains a provision of up to US$300,000 to
finance retroactively certain activities, expected to begin after May 1, 1986
and continue throughout the summer of 1986, for extending the distribution
system within the Yonki vicinity.
5.20      Based on the implementing schedules shown in Annexes 19, 20 and
21, a schedule of estimated disbursements has been prepared (Annex 22).
Comparison was made with disbursement profiles for hydroelectric projects
Bankwide. The project is expected to be fully completed by December 31,
1990.  The ctosing date for the proposed loan would be December 31, 1991,
which would allow adequate time for payment of retentions.
H. Monitoring and Reporting
5.21      In order to inform the Bank, the other cofinanciers, and the
Borrower about progress in implementing the proposed project, ELCOM has agreed
to furnish quarterly progress reports and submit a project completion report
to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date of the loan.
I. Ecology
5.22      From 1984-1985, ELCOM engaged Cameron McNamera Kramer of PNG
(consulting engineers) to carry out an Environmental Assessment of the Yonki
reservoir area. All ecological aspects have been fully considered. The
reservoir area has no mineral resources, forests, or fishery resources of
significant economic value. The assessment was reviewed and endorsed in
principle by the Department of Environment and Conservation. No environmental
problems of significance are expected to arise as a result of the project's
construction. Since implementation of the environmental plan depends largely
on cooperation between different groups and agencies, ELC4M'a Board has
created a small interagency environmental unit. ELCOM has also initiated a
comprehensive plan for the socio-economic development of the area surrounding
the Yonki reservoir, known as the Arona valley. A comprehensive report
containing several area investment proposals has been prepared by the PNG
Institute for Applied Social and Economic Research. This has also been
reviewed within PNG by various central and provincial agencies and approved by
the PNG Government. The only component of this plan included in the proposed
project is the provision of electricity in the immediate vicinity of the Yonki
Dam (para. 5.09).
5.23      The reservoir will inundate an area of 21.5 sq km.  Environmental
aspects of the project have received serious and timely consideration; and
their resolution was simplified considerably becouse ELCOM had purchased the
land for the reservoir area in the early 19709 when the Ramu 1 project was
begun. In addition to the land for the reservoir, strips of land were also
purchased on each side of the Ramu River between the proposed dam site and the
outlet portal of the Ramu 1 tailrace tunnel. Since purchasing the land, ELCOM
has leased it to residents of the vicinity for cattle grating and coffee
production. No settlements are located within the reservoir area, although a
few of the lessees have built huts near their plantations. ELCOM has already
prepared a three year program for closing the cattle ranch. This program



- 32 -
would begin with project construction. ELCOM has also completed the necessary
arrangements for the purchase of small parcels of land needed to relocate a
section of the Highlands Highway and to secure the quarry needed to supply
rock for construction of the dam.
5.24      Assessment of the rate at which sediment would accumulate within the
Yonki reservoir shows that sedimentation is not as serious a problem as was
once postulated. The loss of storage is estimated at about 28.8 million cu m,
representing 8.4Z of total storage volume, after 50 years and 56.3 million
cu m, or 16.8X, after 100 years. Observations of the bed material between the
dam and the Ramu 1 headpond, which ranges from small pebbles and rocks to
boulders, indicates that degradation of the riverbed in this area is unlikely,
although some scour can be expected for a short period in the vicinity of the
spi'lway plunge pool when high'flood flows pass over the spillway.  The
situation is expected to stabilize quickly.
J. Risks
5.25      The Yonki dam project is subject to risks normally associated with
civil works in difficult terrain and heavy wet season rain. ELCOM has decided
to use conduits for river diversion in order to avoid possible problems with
the difficult ground through which diversion tunnels would have to be driven.
Most of the embankment will rest on a foundation of competent conglomerates.
There is no danger of significant landslides occurring either at the damsite
during or after construction, or around the reservoir perimeter after filling.
ELCOM has endeavored to minimize the project risks during construction, par-
ticularly with respect to the treatment of the embankment foundation.  A grout
curtain has been designed to fill cavities in the conglomerates with cement
and possible sand lenses with chemical grout. The design is satisfactory.
ELCOM has relied heavily on the services of ERB, whose advice will continue
being sought should any unusual technical problem in connection with the
construction of the dam embankment arise. ELCOM has also acted promptly in
preparing to upgrade the operating voltage of the Ramu-Lae and Ramu-Madang
transmission lines to 132 Kv. Whatever risks remain are not judgca to be
significant enough to preclude proceeding with the loan.
5.26      At negotiations, ELCOM agreed that, after completion of
construction, it will conduct periodic inspections, to be performed by
independent engineering experts acceptable to the Bank, of the dam and
associated work. To this end, ELCOM would propose to the Rank appropriate
arrangements for conducting such inspections, not later than one year before
the expected completion of the main civil works. These inspections would
determine any deficiencies in the condition of the aforementioned structures,
or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or method of operation of these
facilities, which may endanger their safety.
VI. FINANCE
A. Introduction
6.01      ELCOM became a Commercial Statutory Authority in October 1983.  In
that context, it has responsibility for maintaining satisfactory revenues,



- 33 -
meeting its expenses and debt service, formulating and financing its invest-
ment program (with some guidance and assistance from the Government of PNG),
and mobilizing resources for the Government of PNG through payment of taxes
and dividends. ELCOM enjoys broad autonomy in formulating and promulgating
tariffs; moreover, it may raise commercial borrowings, both domestically and
from abroad, on the strength of its financial statements and without specific
permission from the Government of PNG.
B.  Past and Present Financial Performance
6.02      ELCOM's financial performance for the period 1981-19b4 is displayed
in detail in Annex 23. Key financial indicators for that period are presented
in Table 6.1:
Table 6.1:  SUMMARY OF ELCOM'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
1981-1984
Financial Year ended Dec 31           1981       1982      1983        1984
- Audited -
Power sold (GWh)                      423        394       398         421
Average revenue (TOEA/kWh)            10.2       12.1      14.1        13.8
Operating revenue (K million)         43.1       47.8      56.0        57.9
Total operating expense and
taxes (K million)                   38.8      35.6       44.3        40.5
Net operating income (K million)       4.3       12.2      13.1        22.0
Net income after interest and
tax (K million)                      1.5       11.9       6.3        11.2
Dividend (K million)                   0.0        0.-0      0.0         2.1
Rate Base (K million)                 92.9       95.4     129.8       160.3
Rate of return (Z) /a                  5.8      .16.4       8.2        10.9
Self financing ratio (X) lb           16.5      43.7       38.6       138.2
Debt service coverage                  1.6        4.1       2.0         2.9
Debt/debt plus equity (X)             47.3       47.6      46.7        44.5
Dividend yield (X) /c                  0.0        0.0       0.0         2.2
Operating ratio (%)                   90.0       74.5      76.6        62.0
Current ratio (X)                     91.7       76.4      74.2        84.4
Accounts receivable - months           2.2        2.2       2.7         2.2
Accounts payable - months              1.8        3.1       2.2         1.6
/a   On historically valued assets.
Th   The ratio of cash available for investment divided by that specific
year's capital expenditure.
/c   The ratio of dividends to total equity.



34 -
6.03      ELCON's financial performance in recent years has varied, inter
atia,-  with the weather.  In 1984, rains were bountiful.  ELCOM was able to
meet more than 80X of its demand with hydro power. Profitability was high and
ELCOM was even able to reduce its tariff by about 16X. In contrast, 1981 and
1983 (to a lesser degree) were dry years; and ELCOM needed to rely heavily on
costly diesel generation for supplying its base load. In those years, ELCOM
needed to increase its tariff substantially to cover the costs associated with
having to rely more heavily than normal on thermal generation. Under previous
Bank loans and existing ADB loans, ELCOM has agreed to set its tariff so that
revenues would cover all operating costs (including depreciation), income
taxes and a 10% return on historically valued net fixed assets in operation.
ELCOM has consistently used this financial performance objective for setting
its tariff. Its results have varied from this target due to factors,-such as
the amount of rainfall, beyond its control. Thus, it is complying with past
financial performance agreements.
6.04      Liquidity.  During the recent past, ELCOM's collection of accounts
receivable has lagged its own targets. Excluding an unread meters accrual
averaging K 3.4 million in both years, accounts receivable represented 59 days
sales in 1983 and 53 days sales in 1984. About 80% of ELCOM's revenues are
from the general public and collection of these revenues has been averaging 45
days; the remaining 20% of revenues accruing from the public sector has been
requiring between 85 and 90 days for collection. ELCOM intends to reduce
accounts receivable (net of the unread meter accrual) to less than 45 days'
sales beginning in 1986 (para. 3.23), by (a) increasing the frequency of meter
readings for general public consumers (paras. 3.22 and 3.23) and (b) adjusting
some of the billing procedures being followed with regard to government
consumers (paras. 3.21 and 3.23). Similarly, in the period 1981-1983, ELCOM
financed its working capital requirements in part by stretching accounts
payable and by raising short term liquidity borrowings. In 1984, ELCOM
applied some of the additional cash flow obtained from selling a higher pro-
portion of low cost hydropower to repay the liquidity borrowings and reduce
payables to levels consistent with normal credit terms in PNG. ELCOM intends
to take a more disciplined approach to its accounts payable in the future
(para. 3.24). While reflecting ELCOM's lackluster commercial performance in
1981 and 1982, its current ratio presents a misleadingly negative view of
ELCOM's liquidity in subsequent years. Because income taxes and dividends are
accrued at the end of the current year but not payable until some months into
the following year, ELCOM's year end current liabilities beginning in 1983
would normally reflect much higher proportions of its annual expenses than was
the case previously. Moreover, ELCOM manages its cash prudently, preferring
to invest in its expansion projects and borrow for liquidity purposes
(para. 6.06) rather than accumulate cash months in advance of anticipated
large expenditures. Therefore, ELCOM's current ratio would necessarily be low
from 1983 onward.
9/   Other factors having a bearing on ELCOM's profitability are staff
reductions, stability of fuel prices, and availability for sale of some
new hydro generation.



- 35 -
6.05      In recent years, ELCOM invested primarily in development of hydro-
power resources for the Port Moresby grid. The Government of PNG authorized
these investments on the condition that ELCOM finance a significant amount of
the cost from internal cash generation, ELCOM's financial performance target
for a normal hydrological year of a 10 rate of return of on historically
valued assets (para. 6.03) has usually also enabled it to self-finance an
average of about 48f of its annual investment program. This impressive level
of self-financing;.. was achieved when ELCOM's investment program was more
modest than is projected for coming years. In order to remove price distor-
tions and enhance general revenues, the Government of PNG made ELCOM liable
for income taxes in 1983 and imposed on ELCOM the expectation of a regular
dividend beginning in 1984. In the future, ELCOM intends to continue
self-finance somewhat more modest levels of its investment program- (para.
6.22) after making satisfactory contributions to general revenues through
taxes (para. 3.29) and dividends (para. 6.08).
6.06      During the recent past, ELCOM's balance sheet has remained consis-
tently strong, except for its working capital position. Debt has averaged
only about 46% of capitalization. Although liquidity has sometimes been
constrained, ELCOM has enjoyed substantial overdraft privileges and easy
access to short term lines of credit. In any case, debt service coverage has
averaged 3.0 and has exceeded 1.5 even in 1981, ELCOM's most difficult year.
6.07      Because of its strong balance sheet, good earnings, and conservative
financial management, ELCOM has not had difficulty in raising long term debt
from international as well as domestic lenders.  As of December 31, 1984,
loans denominated in foreign exchange comprised about 25% (about K 45 million)
of ELCOM's total capitalization. In late June 1985, ELCOM raised Yen 1,700
million (about K 7.1 million at that time) in long term debt from a syndicate
led by the Yasuda Trust Banking Ltd. of Japan. Owing to this relatively easy
access to the international commercial credit markets and the free
convertibility of the Kina, ELCOM has not had difficulty meeting its foreign
exchange needs.
Dividends
6.08      Since 1984, the Government of PNG has expected ELCOM to pay a
dividend.  ELCOM's Board of Commissioners voted to pay a dividend equal to 19%
of its net income after interest charged to operations and income taxes.  In
1984, the dividend was Kina 2.1 million, representing a yield of about 2% on
equity capital. Based on ELCOM's current policy of setting dividends at 19%
of after tax earnings, the Government's yield is likely to remain in the 2-3%
range in the intermediate future (Annex 22 and Table 6.4).
10/ The self-financing ratio relates cash available for investment to that
specific year's capital expenditure.  This differs substantially from
contribution to investment (para. 6.22), which relates cash availabLa for
investment to the average capital expenditure for (i) the immediately
preceding year; (ii) the current year; and (iii) the next year.



- 36 -
Valuation of Assets
6.09      ELCOM currently accounts for its fixed assets on an historical cost
basis. With inflation averaging 7% per year over the recent past, the use of
historical cost substantially understates the value of ELCOM's plant and
equipment. Revaluation of assets is an accepted accounting practice in PNG
and ELCOM plans to use consultants, currently on retainer, to develop a
methodology and conduct a revaluation of its fixed assets prior to June
1986. ELCOM intends that the revaluation would be based on a comprehensive
engineering assessment, to be conducted in the field, of all its generating
plants and zone substations and a review, to lue conducted at ELCOM head-
quartersp of its accounting and engineering data concerning transmission,
distribution and other assets. ELCOM intends to use the methodology and
information provided by the consultants so that its own staff can revalue its
assets regularly thereafter. If the revaluation is satisfactory to the
Auditor General of PNG, it would be incorporated into ELCOM's annual accounts;
otherwise, ELCOM would maintain these records in memorandum form. At neloti-
ations, ELCOM gave an undertaking that, beginning with the year ended
December 31, 1986, it will conduct, according to a methodology acceptable to
the Bank, an annual revaluation of its assets, either in its books of accounts
or in memorandum form. In the context of appraisal, an approximate
revaluation was attempted; this effort indicated that the replacement value of
ELCOM's gross fixed assets in operation is likely to be greater than histor-
ical cost by about 100%. Such an adjustment in the rate base implies that
ELCOM's seemingly comfortable average rate of return of 10% on historically
valued assets translates to a modest average rate of return of about 4% on
revalued assets.
C. Tariff
6.10      ELCOM charges all its consumers nationwide according to a simply
structured uniform tariff summarized in Table 6.2:



- 37 -
Table 6.2:  SUMMARY OF ELCOM'S TARIFF
~-~~-~~~--- Rate --------e--__
Consumer category                  June 1, 1984 -               After Oct 1, 1985
Sept 30, 1985
Industrial consumers:
Demand charge /a                 K 11.00 per kVA            -K 10.00 per kVA
Energy charge                    8.00 toea per kWh           8.0 toea per kWh
Consumers with prepayment meters  15.4 toea per kWh            15.4 toea per kWh
All other consumers lb
Energy charge
First 100 kWh /c                 11.5 toea per kWh           10.5 toea per kWh
Balance                          14.0 toea per kWh           14.0 toea per kWh
/a   Large industrial and commercial consumers with a demand of approximately
200 kVA or more pay a minimum demand charge of K 2,200 through September
30, 1985 and K 2,000 thereafter.
lb   The charge for public lighting is a flat rate assessed yearly, based on
the size and type of light fitting.
/c   The minimum monthly amount for each connected meter is K 5.00.  Charges
for periods of more or less than one month will be calculated on a pro
rata basis.
In addition to the charges shown above, consumers pay a fee of K 20 for
initial connections and of K 5 for reconnections or changes in service.
6.11      In addition to ELCOM's generation, several private concerns receive
power from their own thermal installations, all of which burn imported petro-
leum fuels.  ELCOM is entitled, pursuant to the Electricity Commission
(condition of supply) by-laws, to impose a standby charge which may not exceed
50% of the difference between the amount actually paid to ELCOM by any con-
sumer generating privately a part or all of his electricity requirements, and
the amount that would have been paid had ELCOM supplied all his requirements.
The standby charge is intended primarily to discourage industrial consumers
from buildi.ag new autogeneration facilities in areas where they could easily
obtain their supplies from ELCOM, and also to encourage consumers who have
been using autogeneration to purchase their power from ELCON, where reasonably
feasible. ELCOM has not yet actually imposed any standby charges.
6.12      The tariff provides ELCOM with average revenues of about 13.7 toea
per kWh. According to a recent joint UNDPlBank study, this average of
13.7 toea/kWh would provide revenue similar to a marginal cost based tariff.
Currently, industrial consumers are modestly cross subsidizing all other con-
sumers; also, consumers in Port Moresby, PNG's only substantial urban concen-
tration, are cross subsidizing consumers elsewhere in the country. These



- 38 -
cross subsidies are acceptable for smaller consumers in view of the relatively
high price of electricity and the modest income levels prevalent in PNG.
6.13      ELCOM's financial performances as indicated by its rate of return,
is somewhat-lower than would be expected given that tariff revenues are
similar to those that would be generated by a marginal cost based tariff.
This is attributable primarily to the low density of consumers, which in the
past has prevented ELCOM from taking advantage of economies of scale. ELCOM
has already had to -invest heavily in subtransmission and distribution infra-
structure, and its investment program does not anticipate significant growth
of service into new geographical areas. While ELCOM's major new investments
are intended to replace costly diesel generation with capital intensive hydro
generation, the investment program's overall cost is lower than the capital
and recurrent cost associated with existing generation, transmission and
distribution facilities. Moreover, as growth in demand is not expected to
absorb completely major additions to capacity directly upon completion of new
projects but rather only a few years later, the anomaly of a tariff producing
revenues similar to long run marginal cost also producing modest financial
performance is expected to continue into the late 1990s.
6.14      For the future, ELCOM projects continuing to achieve modest levels
of financial performance (Table 6.4 and para. 6.22). These results are
acceptable to the Bank primarily because they are based on the assumption that
the tariff will be adjusted regularly so that it continues to approximate long
run marginal cost. Because of the low penetration of electricity into the PNG
market, a tariff which exceeds long run marginal cost would give improper
signals to the consumers.
D. Financing Plan
6.15      ELCOM's financing plan for the period of implementation of the
proposed project, 1985-1991, is provided in Table 6.3:



- 39 -
Table 6.3:  ELCOM'S FINANCING PLAN, 1985-1991
K Mln.    US$ Mln/a  z
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income before Interest               235.0       135.0     49
Depreciation                              82.2        82.2     11
Operating Cash Flow                      317.2       317.2     66
(Less) Working Capital Increases          (3.8)       (3.8)   (1)
(Less) Taxes Payable                      14.5        14.5      3
(Less) Dividends Payable                  23.7        23.7      5
Cash Available for Debt Service          278.4       278.4     59
Debt Service
Interest Charged to Operations            76.8        76.8     16
Principal Repayments                      36.2        36.2      7
Total Debt Service                       112.9       112.9     23
Cash Available from Operations           165.5       165.5     36
Capital Investment                        -
Yonki Hydroelectric Project               99.6        99.6     20
Other Projects                           312.6       312.6     65
Capitalized Interest                       70.5       70.5     15
Total Capital Investment                 482.7       482.7    100
Balance to be Financed                   313.0       313.0     64
Sources ,f Finance
Onlent World Bank funds                   28.5        28.5       6
OECF of Japan                              38.0       38.0      8
European Investment Bank                   16.0       16.0      3
Asian Development Bank                    25.0        25.0       5
Other onlent International Loans           97.3       97.3      20
Commercial Loans                         108.2       108.2     22
Total Finance                            313.0       313.0     64
/a   Currently K 1 = US$1



40 -
6.16      ELCOM is expecting to implement an extremely ambitious investment
program during the period. The proposed project (including associated capi-
talized interest), which alone would increase ELCOM's historically valued
gross fixed assets in operation by 57%, accounts for only about 24% of ELCOM's
planned investment. After allowing for payment of taxes and dividends, ELCOM
plans to finance about 36% of its investment program from tariff revenues.
6.17      The Government of PNG has a policy of channelling all official
international loans (including proceeds of loans from the Bank, OECF, EIB, ADB
and other development agencies) through the Department of Finance (DOF), with
DOF then onlending the proceeds to ELCOM for 20 years, including five years of
grace on repayment of principal, at the higher of the standard for onlending
to Commercial Statutory Authorities or the rate the Government actually pays
for the funds. Currently, the standard onlending rate for Commercial
Statutory Authorities is 11%. ELCOM bears the full foreign exchange risk
associated with its official borrowings; while the Government implicitly
guarantees repayment, it normally needs not enter into formal Guarantee
Agreements with the lending institutions. The maturity and grace periods of
these onlending arrangements are consistent with the terms of the Bank loan.
At negotiations, the Government of PNG agreed that it will onlend the proceeds
of the proposed Bank loan to ELCOM for 20 years, including five years of grace
on repayment of principal, at an interest rate representing the higher of its
standard rate for onlending to Commercial Statutory Authorities or the
prevailing Bank rate.
6.18      ELCOM intends to secure the balance of needed investment financing
from commercial lenders, either within PNG or abroad. As its debt/total
capitalization ratio is projected to remain at or below 63% and its debt
service coverage is projected to exceed 1.5 throughout the period, ELCOM
believes it will remain capable of obtaining attractive credit terms. ELCOM
intends to choose between domestic and offshore sources of commercial
borrowings based on comparisons of available offers, adjusted to reflect the
Government of PNG's expectation of foreign exchange movements. For projection
purposes, these commercial loans have been assumed to be available for ten
years, including four years of grace on repayment of principal, at an interest
rate of 13%. These assumptions are based on ELCOM's experience in raising
debt finance in June 1985 (para. 6.07).
E. Future Finances
6.19      Projections of ELCOM's financial performance for the period 1985  4,
together with the assumptions underlying those projections, are presented in
Annex 23. Key financial indicators for the projection period are presented in
Table 6.4.



- 41 -
Table 6.4: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1985-1994
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Power sold (GVh)          466    501    550    585    624    662    705    749    796    849
Average revenue
(TOBA/b.h)             13.7   13.7   13.7   14.5   15.1   15.4   17.8   19.6   21.0   21.0
Avg. revenue
(constant prices)      13.7   13.3   12.4   12.3   11.9   11.2   12.2   12.9   13.2   12.7
Operating revenue
(K million)            63.8   68.7   75.4   84.9   94.2  101.9  125.1  146.5  167.0  178.2
Total operating
expense and taxes
(K million)           666.0   47.3   57.0   58.7   65.3   68.8   79.2   90.6  103,8   99.9
Net operating
income (K million)    27.9   25.4    5.0   26.3   29.0   33.1   48.4   61.9   70.7   90.2
Net income after
tax (K million)        16.7   15.4   17.1   17.8   18.4   19.4   19.9   28.2   33.2   45.1
Dividend (K million)      3.2    2.9    3.3    3.4    3.5    3.7    3.8    5.4    6.3    8.6
Rate base (K mln) /a   171.3  207.6  241.1  264.4  299.1  388.8  465.3  489.7  576.0  653.5
Rate of return (Z) /a   12.6   10.3    9.8   10.0    9.7    8.6    9.9   11.5   11.0   12.0
Rate of return (Z) rb    4.6    3.9    3.2    2.8    2.6    2.6    3.8    4.7    4.7    5.4
Self-financing
ratio (X) /c          42.7   40.5   34.6   29.0   27.7   31.7   28.4   37.8   29.2   30.6
Debt service coverage    3.1    2.7    2.9    2.9    2.7    2.3    1.6    1.5    1.6    1.7
Debt/debt plus equity
ratio (Z)              46.6   49.3   53.2   57.8   61.3   62.6   63.3   62.0   62.2   62.2
Dividend yield (1) /d    2.9    2.4    2.4    2.3    2.1    2.0    1.9    2.4    2.6    3.0
Operating ratio (X)      56.2   63.1   66.8   69.0   69.2   67.5   61.3   57.8   57.7   49.4
Current Ratio (X)        70.0   81.6   99.7  100.1   83.6   71.4   55.9   51.7   48.0   43.7
Accounts receivable
(months)                1.7    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5
Accounts payable
(months)                2.0    1.9    2.0    2.1    2.1    1.9    1.8    1.7    1.8    2.0
/a   Based on historical value of gross fixed assets.
7r   Based on notional revaluation of gross fixed assets effective as of Dec. 31, 1984
(para. 6.09).
/c   The ratio of cash available for investment divided by that specific year's capital
expenditure.
/d   The ratio of dividends to total equity.



- 42
6.20      During the projection period, ELCOM's historically valued rate base
is expected to grow by about 307% (or 15% compounded annually). Because a
significant proportion of the new generating capacity will be used to replace
costly diesel generation with lower cost hydro generation, power sales are
expected to increase only by about 100X (or 7.2% compounded annually) and
operating revenues are expected to increase only by 207X (or about 11.9% com-
pounded annually). During the projection period, ELCOM's tariff is expected
to increase by 53% (or about 4.4% compounded annually); however, in constant
1985 prices, the tariff will actually decrease marginally between 1985 and
1994. As reflected by its operating ratio, ELCOM will maintain or increase
its profitability because of expected decreases in its aggregate costs as the
proportion of low-cost hydro power to ELCOM's overall sales increases.
6.21      Based on the assumption of normal hydrological years, ELCOM is
expected to remain in sound financial health. ELCOM's past performance indi-
cates that it has been quick to adjust its tariff to variations in weather
(para. 6.03) and that its access to liquidity borrowings is adequate to
overcome the cash constraints of dry years (parr. 6.06). During the projec-
tion period, ELCOM expects to self-finance an average of about 33% of its
annual investment program. It expects to realize an average annual rate of
return, computed after income tax and before interest and dividends, on
historically valued assets of 10.5%. Its debt to total capitalization ratio
remains consistently at or less than 63% and its debt service coverage con-
sistently exceeds 1.5. Although its current ratio remains low (para. 6.04)
ELCOM should erjoy satisfactory liquidity.
6.22      In the past, ELCOM has set its rates to meet the financial
performance objective of a 10 rate of return on historically valued assets.
While this has enabled ELCOM to self-finance about 40% of its investment
program in the past, its future investment program is substantially more
ambitious (para. 6.16) and self-financing must follow the Government's
recently introduced income tax (para. 3.29) and dividend (para. 6.08)
requirements. Thus, in setting its rates, ELCOM should focus on meeting
internal case generation targets in preference to rates of return. To ensure
that it continues to realize acceptable levels of financial performance
(paras. 6.20-6.21), at negotiations ELCOM agreed to take steps, including but
not limited to increasing its tariff, to realize revenues sufficient to meet
its cash operating expenq17s, all debt service, income taxes, dividends p!tble
and, beginning in 1987,_   30% of its average annual investment program.-
In addition, ELCOM agreed that, unless the Bank accepts otherwise, it may
incur additional debt only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after
expenditures for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be
at least 1.5 times ELCOM's projected debt service requirements. Compliance
11/ Until the proposed loan becomes effective, most likely in late 1986,
ELCOM would maintain its existing tariff.
12/ The average of (a) its investment programs for (i) the immediately
preceding year and (ii) the current year and (b) its expected investment
program for the next year.



- 43
with these agreements implies that ELCOM's tariff will continue to provide
revenues similar to a marginal cost based tariff.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Background
7.01      Numerous studies of potential hydroelectric developments to serve
the Port Moresby and Ramu Systems had been undertaken over the past ten
years. As a result of these studies, ELCOM preselected various potential
hydroelectric developments and engaged Gibb Australia to conduct a final
evaluation of alternatives. Their initial study, which was completed in 1983,
involved the investigation, evaluation and ranking of the various hydro-
electric alternatives. The final study, completed in 1984, primarily involved
the comparison of alternative development plans, including hydro and thermal
plant alternatives for both the Ramu System alone and for the interconnected
system, in order to establish the least cost development plan and identify the
priority projects. A report entitled "Port Moresby and Ramu Systems Plans"
was prepared by Gibb Australia in June 1984. The investigation makes clear
that construction of the Yonki hydro project by 1990 forms a vital part of the
least cost development plan for both the separate development of the Ramu
system and the interconnected system. The study was then updated in 1985 by
SMEC, with the result of confirming that Yonki Hydroelectric Project is the
most economic development for the Ramu System.
Least Cost Analysis of the Ramu Syste=
7.02      The Yonki reservoir will increase the firm energy of Ramu I from the
existing 126 GWh level to 418 GWh. Further indirect benefits of the proposed
Project include the elimination of the severe turbine erosion presently
occurring from the Ramu River silt load; the utilization of facilities
previously constructed in the Ramu 1 Power Station; the general economic
development of the immediate area with service industries, agriculture
projects and tourism; and the dry season irrigation potential which could
become available below the Ramu Gorge.
7.03      The proposed Project also facilitates some further hydroelectric
developments of the Ramu Gorge below the Ramu I Power Station. These develop-
ments provide highly economic power for the country's long term plans for
indigenous resource exploitation (Annex 24, para. 3). In particular, several
mining projects under investigation in the Highland region are enhanced by the
prospect of economic ELCOM power being available. Moreover, as a result of
the proposed Project, the proposed trans-island transmission line has pros-
pects of becoming economically viable, thereby providing additional generation
options to Port Moresby.
7.04      The least-cost analysis wa3 made on a program basis using the
discounted cash flow technique. The following four alternatives, each of
which would satisfy the projected demand up to 1995, were compared:



44 -
Comi ssioning
Year         Alternative A           Alternative B   Alternative C   Alternative D
1990         Yonki Hydroelectric    Lae heavy oil   Lae heavy oil   Lae heavy oil
(Yonki dam and addi-   diesel           diesel           diesel
tional 2 x 15 KW in    (2 x 7.S MW)    (2 x 7.5 MW)    (2 x 7.5 MW)
Ramu I)
1991                                 Lae heavy oil   Lae heavy oil   Lae heavy oil
diesel           diesel          diesel
(1 x 7.5 MW)    (1 x 7.5 MW)    (1 x 7.5 MW)
1992                                 Lae heavy oil   Lae heavy oil   Lae heavy oil
diesel          diesel           diesel
(1 x 7.5 MW)    1 x 7.5 MW)      (1 x 7.5 MW)
1994                                 Lae heavy oil   Ramu 2A           BariKewa
diesel           (50 MW)         (1 x 25 MW)
(2 x 7.5 MW)
1995                                 Lae heavy oil
diesel
(1 x 7.5 MW)
Alternative A with the Yonki hydro project is the basic alternative. Alterna-
tive B is a heavy oil diesel alternative. Alternative C is a mixed hydro and
thermal alternative., involving thermal stations using heavy oil diesel and the
run-of-the-river hydro electric station, Ramu 2 A. Alternative D is a thermal
alternative comprising gas turbines fired from the adjacent BariKewa gas
fields and heavy oil diesel stations. The comparison which was made on a
constant price basis, considers the total present value of capital investment
and operation, maintenance and fuel costs. The fuel costs were calculated on
a system basis assuming merit-order operation of generating plants. All costs
were based on end-1985 price levels. Taxes and duties were excluded. Foreign
exchange costs were not shadow priced, due to the recent devaluation of Kina.
7.05      The economics of the proposed Yonki Hydroelectric Project has been
examined in light of recent and projected drop in oil prices. The equalizing
discount rate between alternative (A) and alternative (B) is 13.9% while the
equalizing discount rate between alternative (A) and alternative (C) is 17.4%,
and between A and D is 18.1%. Alternative (A) with the Yonki hydro project,
would therefore be the most economic alternative as long as the opportunity
cost of capital in real terms is less than 13.9%. This demonstrates that the
Yonki Hydroelectric Project is economically justified. A sensitivity analysis
between alternative (A) and alternative (B) indicates that even with a 30%
increase in the cost of the Yonki Dam and zero increase in fuel prices,



- 45 -
alternative (A) is still the least cost solution up to a discount rate of
about 12.1% (Annex 24).  As another sensitivity test for variations in real
oil prices between US$12 a barrel and US$20 a barrel (zero escalation), the
equalizing discount rate between Alternative A and Alternative B varies
between 11.9% and 14%. Thus the Project meets the Bank's economic criteria.
Internal Economic Rate of Return for the Proposed Project
7.06      The internal economic rate of return (IERR) was calculated by
equalizing the net present value of the economic costs and benefits attribu-
table to the proposed project. The costs included are (a) capital investment
for the project, including associated transmission; (b) operation and
maintenance costs; and (c) recurrent costs associated with distribution.
Benefits were derived based on the 1985 average tariff.  The IERR thus
calculated is 16.5% for the proposed project (Annex 25).
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreement with the Government
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that, it would assist ELCOM with the study of rural electrification policies
and standards and would participate, as appropriate, in the discussions about
the study's findings with the Bank (para. 5.09).
8.02      During negotiations, further assurances were obtained from the
Government regarding onlending the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to ELCOM
on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.17).
Agreement with ELCOM
8.03      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ELCOM regarding
the following:
(a) ELCOM will (i) by January 1, 1987, appoint consultants, according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to conduct a Job Standardization Study; (ii) by December 31, 1987,
complete the study and discuss the Study's recommendations with the
- Bank; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank,
implement these mutually agreed recommendations (para. 3.08).
(b)  ELCOM will consult Bank prior to making any decisions which might
result in major changes to ELCOM's organization (para. 3.11).
(c) ELCOM will (i) by January I, 1987, appoint consultants, according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to standardize ELCOM's technical functions and to prepare manuals of
standard operating procedures; (ii) by December 31, 1987, complete
the manuals and discuss the consultants' recommendations with the
Bank; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank,
implement those mutually agreeable recommendations (para. 3.14).



- 46 -
(d) ELCON will Ci) by June 30, 1988, appoint consultants, according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to conduct a technical audit; (ii) by January 31, 1989, complete
the audit and discuss the consultants' recommendations with the
Bank; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank,
implement those mutually agreeable recommendations (para. 3.14).
(e)  ELCOM will, six months after the end of each fiscal year, furnish to
the Bank audited annual accounts for the year just concluded,
together with the certification and report of an acceptable auditor
(para. 3.26).
(f) ELCOM will (i} by January 1, 1987, appoint consultants, according to
terms of reference and a selection procedure acceptable to the Bank,
to assist in conducting a study of policies and standards for future
rural electrification activity; (ii) by March 31, 1988, complete the
study and discuss the study's preliminary findings with the Bank;
and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to the Bank, implement
the mutually agreeable recommendations of the study (Para. 5.09).
(g) ELCOM will, after completion of construction, conduct periodic
inspections, to be performed by independent engineering experts
acceptable to the Bank, of the dam and associated works. To this
end, ELCOM would propose to the Bank appropriate arrangements for
conducting such inspections, not later than one year before the
expected completion of the main civil works (para. 5.26).
(h) ELCOM will take steps, including but not limited to increasing its
tariff, to realize revenues sufficient to meet its cash operating
expenses, all debt service, income taxes, dividends payable and 30%
of its average annual investment program (para. 6.22).
(i) ELCOM will, unless the Bank accepts otherwise, incur additional debt
only if a reasonable forecast of its net revenues after expenditures
for each year during the term of debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times ELCOM's projected debt service requirement for the
same year (para. 6.22).
8.04      During negotiations, undertakings were obtained from ELCOM regarding
the following:
(a) ELCON will re-luce accounts receivable (net of unread meter accruals)
and maintain them at less than 45 days' sales, beginning in 1986
(para. 3.23).
(b) ELCOM will maintain accounts payable (net of accrued interest) at
the aggregate of (a) one and one half month's construction expendi-
tures and (b) one and one half month's cash operating expenses (para
3.24).



-47-
(c) ELCOM will conduct, according to a methodology acceptable to the
Bank, an annual revaluation of its assets, either in its books of
accounts or in memorandum form (para. 6.09).
Conditions of Effectiveness
8.05      Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and ELCOM and approval of the Loan Agreement by the Government would be condi-
tions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
8.06      Cross effectiveness of the cofinancing arrangements would be a
further condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 5.12).
Recommendation
8.07      Subject to agreements being reached or conditions being fulfilled on
the above matters, the project is suitable for a Bank loan to the Government
of PN6 of $28.5 million.



_-48- -u 
Q~~ I
,~~~~ . 
,1~~~~~  1111
,,.XS       X~~~~~~~~~~~~
A 
ji~~ 
AIX
. X



-49                          AM-
Page 1
PAPUA NW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTeIC PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Institutional Su ort
Technical Assistance
A.   Job Category_Classification Programme
Objective
To enable ELCOM to have an effective, fully integrated Job Category
Classification System, consistent with:
(a)  the tasks, activities and requirements of the Engineering,
Commercial and Administration.
(b)  the Manpower Planning Systems currently being installed.
(C) the Management Information System currently being installed.
Scope of Work
Experts with wide experience in the power industry should work
directly with the Manpower Planning Manager and in close collaboration with
all the operating line managers to finalize and implement a Job Category
Classification System. The project should be completed not later than twelve
months after mobilization of the consultant.
Terms of Reference
(i)  Examine all existing job categories and add or delete new
categories as required.
(ii) Review present job categories, define the key tasks, and
identify the qualifications, knowledge and skill levels
required for each job.
(iii) For each job category, identify the appropriate salary scale
within the existing payroll system.
(iv) For each work location/budget center, allocate all existing
staff into the new job categories.
(v)  Integrate the new Job Category Classification with the Manpower
Planning Systems, ensuring that the Performance Appraisal,
Training Needs Analysis and Manpower Budgeting Systems are
adapted to new requirements.



- 50-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(vi)  In formulating the new category classification, visit relevant
managers and consultants as often as necessary for discussions
regarding introduction and implementation of the new system.
(vii)  Ensure that all forms, registers, and information sheets are
properly developed and circulated for use.
(viii) During the study, prepare monthly progress reports for the
ELCOM Project Manager.
(ix)  Submit a final report describing the results of the completed
technical assistance and identifying those matters requiring
further attention.
B.   Standard Operating Procedures
Objective
To develop and implement Standard Operating Procedures for ELCOM's
Engineering, Commercial and Administration activities, and to assure their
consistency with ELCOM's overall policies and objectives.
Scope of Work
(a)  Review the existing systems and procedures in use within the
Engineering, Commercial and Administration functions.
(b)  Review with the line managers the activities requiring special
attention and/or interdepartmental coordination.
(c)  Finalize a complete set of manuals of Standard Operating
Procedures for all Engineering, Commercial and Administration
Functions.
Terms of Reference
In particular, the consultant will:
(i)  Review the organization structure and systems in use for
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance, in
order to establish lines of communication and control. This
review should concentrate on communications arrangements
between headquarters and outlying field offices.
(ii)  Review the organization structure and systems in use for
personnel management, administration services, inventory
management and transport in order to establish the lines of
communication and control.  The consultants must concentrate on
coordinating existing management systems with those that have
been recently designed; to the degree possible, duplication
should be eliminated and paper flows streamlined.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(iii) Review Present Operating Proce'dures for all of these functions,
based on modern utility practices as adapted to ELCOM's
specific tequirements.
(iv) Where appropriate, ensure that the new procedures will
coordinate effectively with existing systems. This will
require that these consultants coordinate their activitles with
other related on-going consultancies related to the ent1neering
and administrative functions.
(v)  Prepare manuals outlining the procedures for each of the major
activities.
(vi) Implement a communications and training program to facilitate
introduction of the new procedures by management, supervisors
and staff.
c.   Technical Audit
Timing
This activity could only begin following completion of the Job
Category Class'.ication Programme and the study of Standard Operating
Procedures.
Objective
To ensure that a technical audit of all positions within the
Commission is carried out which will (a) develop a comp ehensive data base for
ELCOM's manpower planning unit; (b) enable initiation of performance
evaluation systems; and (c) identify training needs and other staff
development requirements.
Scope of Work
(i) Production of an inventory of skills and manpower resources
currently available on ELCOM's staff.
(ii) Production of a year by year projection of ELCOM's needs for
skills and manpower resources through 1995.
(iii) Production of lists and task necessary for each occupational
position within the Commission.
(iv) Production of lists of skills, knowledge and attitudes
necessary for each of the above tasks.
(v) Production of position descriptions for each position in a
suitable format which will include-performance standards for
each of the identified key tasks.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
(vi)  Identification of any shortfalls in skills and manpower
resources among ELCOM's national staff, =ipected through 1995.
Terms of Reference
In particular the consultants will, under the direction of the
Project Coordinator, maintain good working relationships within the Cowiission
as part of a team involved in occupational analysis, still testing and
standard setting. The consultants will liaise closely with the Commissioner's
Manpower Planning unit while implementing the larger part of their
activities. Finally, the consultants will liaise the larger part of their
activities. Finally, the Consultants will provide expertise to the team which
will be responsible for the following:
(a) Based on information provided by the Commission's Personnel
Deparment, develop a listing of skills, attitudes, experiences,
and other job related justifications currently available on
ELCOM's staff.
(b) Based on information provided by the Commission's planning
department, develop a year by year projection of skills,
attitudes, experiences and other job related qualifications
that are expected to be needed through 1995.
(c) Identify shortfalls in the above qualities among ELCOM's
national staff, expected year by year through 1995.
(i)     Classify these shortfalls as to quantity and quality of
manpower resources;
(ii)     Identify sources of manpower resources to overcome
expected quantitative shortages.
(iii)     Identify training and other methods to overcome
expected qualitative deficiencies.
(d)  Make appropriate recommendations about structural arrangements
within ELCOM that may arise from expected expansion of
particular activities.
(e) Assist in the design and implementation of an in-house training
program so that relevant Commission staff are capable of
performing their required tasks to a satisfactory international
standard.
(f) Develop job descriptions for all Commission staff in line with
standard Commission format with particular reference to the
fallowing:
-   Identification of main duties of each occupation and the
key tasks;



_ 53 _                     ANNgX 2
Page 5
-   List the skills, knowledge and attitudes necessary for each
position;
- Develop man specifications for each position keeping in
mind Commission objectives;
-   Incorporate standards of performance expected in each of
the key tasks inthe position descriptions.
(g) Consult with relevant Commission staff in order to achive
agreement in the execution of the required tasks.
(h) Review current Commission determination and procedures manuals
in order that conflicts do not exist with the teams findings.



5                S4                  E  3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMIMISSION
Existing Generation Facilities
(as of-December 1984)
Installed capacity
Unit      No.          Commission-
Power system        Plant        Type         size      of    Total   ing date
Unit (MW)
Port Moresby     Rouna 1          Hydro       1-2.5       4     5.5       1957
Rouna 2         Hydro         6         5       30      1964
Rouna 3         Hydro         6         2       12      1975
Sirinumu        Hydro        1.5        1      1.5      1973
Moitaka          Gas          16        2       32      1979
turbine
Ramu             Ramu             Hydro         15        3      45       1976
Pauanda         Hydro         6         2       12      1983
Lae            Diesel      0-7-2.7      7    13.2
Madang         Diesel      0.4-2.8      6      9.4
Gazelle          Warongoi         Hydro         5         2      10       1983
Rabaul         Diesel      0.2-0.6      6      2.5
Kerevat        Diesel      0.5-1.7      4      3.7
Kimbe            Ru-Creek         Hydro        0.4        2     0.8       1983
Kimbe          Diesel      0.08-0.3     5    1.28       1979
Mendi            Mendi (U)        Hydro        0.08       2    0.16       1966
Mendi (D)      Diesel        0.18       3    0.54
Other systems    Aitape          Diesel      0.08-0.1     4    0.33       1979
Alotau         Diesel      0.2-0.6      5      1.2      1979
Bainyik        Diesel      0.03-0.1     3    0.27       1979
Buka           Diesel      0.1-0.17     3    0.37       1979
Daru           Diesel      0.1-0.2      4    0.56       1979
Finschhafen    Diesel      0.05-0.2     3    0.49       1979
Kavieng        Diesel      0.1-0.5      6    1.68
Kerema         Diesel      0.1-0.2      4      0.5      1979
Lombrom        Diesel      0.3-0.4      6      2.0      1979
Popondetta     Diesel      0.1-0.37     6    1.56       1979
Samarai        Diesel        0.12       2    0.24
Vanimo         Diesel    0.08-0.21    6    0.78         1979
Wewak          Diesel      0.46-1.1     8    4.76
Total                                              116  194.32



ANNEX 4
PAPUIA NEW GITINFA
FLECTURICTY C0MS9ION
Operating statistics
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77    1977    1978    1979    19R0    1481    19R2.   1983    1Q84
(1/2 yr)
Installed capacity (MW)/a                   76        89      115       11]        121      140     166      175     176      192      217     204
Maximum demand (MW)                        n/a       n/a       n/a      n/a       62.4    70.6    79,3    84.0    86.7   A8,0    04.7    94.A
Energy genetAtion (GWh)/b                  267       289      315       335        IR3      387     440      465     460      443      4S2     479
Energv sales (MWb)                         232       256       274      303        153      340     380      410     423      394      398     421
System losses (2 - 3 year rolling)        12.5      10.1    1I.0       11.6       12.5    17.0    13.6    12.5    11.0    10.1    10.7    11.6
Load factor (%)                           n.a.      n.a.     n.s.      n.a.       n.a.    62.6    63.3    63.2    60,6    60,2    61.1    "..
No. of Consumers
Domestic ('000)                         20.0      21.8     23.4      24.9       25.4    26.7    31.4    32.2    33,3    33.8    34.4    34.2
Ceneral stupply ('000)                   4.8       4.8      5.0       5.2        5.4      5.6     6.,      7.2     7,6      7.8      8.0     8.4
Industrial/c                              24        21       20        21         22       28      29       30       -        -        -      35
Total ('000)                         24.8     26.7      28.4      30.1       30.9    32.4    38.2    39.5    40.9    41.6    42.5    42.7
No. of Emploees
Expatriate                               211       207       166      123        135      134     127      178      15S     135      122     113
National                               1,388    1,553    1,667    1,740        1,965   2,166   2,323   2,566   2,359   2,254   2,18R   2,201
Total                               1,599    1.760     1,31    1.913        2.100   2,30n   2,450   2,744   2.50    2389   2-310   2.314
Consumer per employee                     15.5      15.2      15.5     15.7       14.7    14.1    15.6    14.4    16.3    17.4    18.4    18.5
Sales per employee (MCIh)                145.1    14S.5    149.5    158.4         72.9   147.8   155.1   149.4   168.6   164,9   172.3   181.9
/a   tncludes purchased capacity (9-12 MW) from private sources.
7i;  ulncudes purchased energy (32-58  MWh) from private sources.
7    Industrial users were billed on general supply tariff in 1981, 1482, 1983 and most of 1984.



-56-                                ANlEl S
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YOWNK HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Eleetricity Sales br Category of Consumers
(h)
Category of
consumer               1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985/a
Domestic                 101    109    119    121    116    125    121    127
General supply           199    227    238    302    278    273    282    275
Maximum demand/
industrial              40     44      53      -       -      -      18     53
Street lighting          n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a
Total               340    380    410    423    394    398    421    456
/a  Estimated for first full year of industrial tariff.
/b  Street lighting not metered.



57 _ANEX 6
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YOWKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Existing Transmiission and Substation Facilities
(As of December 1985)
Transformers
Total     Transmission lines
Power system   Voltage   Substations    Number   capacity       single circuit
(KV)                               (MVA)        (circuit-km)
Port Moresby             Generation
Rouna 1         3        7.5
Rouna 2         5       37.5
Rouna 3         2       15.0
Rtouna Auto     2       10.0
66        Moitaka 1        1       25.0             82
Moitaka 2       1       24.3
Zone
Boroko          2       38.0
Konedobu        3       32.0
Waigani         2       10.0
Bomana          2        5.0
Ramu                     Generation
Ramu            3       51.0
Pauanda         1       15.0
Baiune          2        5.0
Zone               -
Milford         1       23.0
Taraka          1       23.0
Nadzab          2        2.0
66        Mumeng           1        1.0            715
Ramu            2        5.0
Meiro           1       10.0
Kainantu        1        6.3
Himitovi        2       20.0
Kundiawa        1        6.3
Dobel           1       10.0
Pauanda         1        6.7
Gazelle                  Generation
Warangoi        4       32.5
66      Zone                                        45
Rabaul          1       10.0
Total                                 48      431.1             842



-58-                                ANNEX?
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICTY COMMISSION
Yonki Hydroelectric Project
Port Moresby and Ramu Systems
1.        The Port Moresby System supplies PNG's largest load center.  In
1984, the system's annual energy generation was 199 GWh and peak demand,
42.4 MW.  The main source of generation is the Rouna Hydroelectric complex
(3 hydroelectric stations in cascade) located on the Laloki River about 25 km
from Port Moresby. The Rouna complex has a total installed capacity of 49 MW
and generates an estimated 155 GWh of hydroelectric energy in an averge year
and 97 GWh in a dry year. Two 16 MW gas turbines at Moitaka provide supple-
mentary energy during dry periods.
2.        The transmission system in Port Moresby consists essentially of a
66 kV overhead line ring between the switchyards at the Rouna hydroelectric
complex and at the Moitaka gas turbine power station, and one bulk supply
substation; and radial 66 kY feeders emanate from the ring to two other bulk
supply substations. The primary distribution system consists of a network of
11 kY overhead feeders emanating from the bulk supply substations and
providing supply through stepdown transformers to a low voltage 415/240 V
overhead distribution system.
3.        The Ramu System is the second largest system in PNG and the largest
with respect to area served. It covers seven provinces, serving four major
load centers at Lae, Madang, Coroka and Mt. Hagen and minor centers at Yonki,
Kainantu and Kundiawa. In 1984 the system's annual energy generation was 165
GWh and peak demand 29.9 MW. The main source of generation is the Ramu I
Hydroelectric Station, a run-of-the-river station, located on the Upper Ramu
River. The Ramu I Station has an installed capacity of 45 MW and generates an
estimated 282 GWh of energy in an average year and 126 CWh in a dry year. A
second hydroelectric development, the Pauanda Station commissioned in 1983,
has an installed capacity of 12 MW and generates an estimated 60 GWh of
hydroelectric energy in an average year and 40 GWh in a dry year. Diesel
plants comprising approximately 13 MW at Lae and 9 MW at Madang provide
supplementary thermal energy during dry periods.
4.        The existing Ramu transmission system operates at 66 kV and supplies
the main centers of Lae, Madang, Goroka and Mount Hagen. The voltages of
primary distribution from the bulk supply substations are 11 kV in Lae and
Madang and 22 kV in Highlands. Low voltage distribution is at 415/240 V.



59                      ~~~~~~~ANNEX 8
-59-
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY CCMNISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Ramn System - Electricity Sales by Category of Consumers
(GWh)
Category of
consumers              1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985/a
Domestic                  27     28      30     31      32     36     32      35
Commercial and
smaii industrial
enterprises             78     83      91    110    101      98     99      95
Larger industries         11      12     13      -       -      -      8      25
Street lighting /b       n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a
Total               116    123    134    141    133    134    139    155
/a  Estimated for first full year of industrial tariff.
lb  Street lighting not metered (estimated at 0.3-0.5 GWh per year).



-60-
PAPUA RIEW GUIl&
ELECTBICITY CONKISSION
YOMR HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Port Moresby System - Electricity Sales by Category of Consumers
(CWh)
Category of
consumers              1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985/a
Domestic                  41     43     45      44     43     44     47      50
Commercial and
small industrial
enterprises             83     93     88    125    119    113    101    114
Larger industries         28     30     40       -      -      -       -     27
Street lighting /b       n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a
Total               152    166    173    169    162    157    172    191
/a  Estimated for first full year of industrial tariff.
/b  Street lighting not metered.



-61-                                     ANEX 10
PAPUA UEV GUINEA
YONKI HYDIOELBC=IC PROJECT
Electricity Comission
ELCON'8: Load Forecast (1985-95)
Energy sales (Cih)   Enery aeneration (Cvh)    Peak demand (NW          Annual load
Port                      Port                     Port            factor of
ELCOM  Moresby   Ramu   ELCQO   Moresby   Ram   ELCON  Horesby  Ramu    Ramu (1)
1985         456.1   191.4   155.7    519.1   218.9   179.0   98.8   43.3    32.4           63
1986         491.3   201.2   171.9    560.1   232.3   197.6  106.6   45.9    35.8           63
1987         538.9   211.4   191.7    614.2   244.1   220.4  115.0   46.8    39.9           63
1988         573.0   222.2   206.2    652.7   256.6   237.0  122.1   49.2    43.0           63
1989         611.0   233.5   223.2    696.2   269.0   256.6  130.3   51.6    46.5           63
199O         648.8   245.4   241.2    739.6   280.7   277.7  138.4   53.2    50.3           63
1991         690.3   258.0   260.9    786.6   297.9   299.9  147.2   55.5    54.3           63
1992         733.9   271.1   282.2    837.0   313.0   324.4  155.4   58.6    59.0           63
1993         779.4   284.9'  305.5    889.9   329.0   351.2  165.2   61.7    63.6           63
1994         831.4   299.5   332.1    949.4   347.9   381.7  174.P   64.9    69.2           63
1995         885.8   314.8   359.7  1,013.3   360.6   413.5  186.6   67.5    75.0           63
Average
Growth Rate
Z g.
1985-90      7.3      5.1     9.1       7.3      5.1     9.1    7.0    4.2       9.1
1985-95      6.9      5.1     8.7       6.9      5.1     8.7    6.6    4.5       8.8



-62-                                     A1U  1I
YOI  D *C     PROJC
Electricity Commission
Salance of lame SYSt.. Load Requirements and Capabilities
-apability and reserve
Requirment                      Capacity                         Energy
Peak       Rnergy                              Reserve         Fans
Year   generation  generation  Installed  Dependable  margin /a  Average  yWdro   Thermal
(NWf)       (CWh)              __(NW,  --- _    (G"h) .___
1985       32          179          80          48          16        390       166     149
1986       36          198          80          48          12        390       166     149
1987       40          220          80          48           8        390       166     149
1988       43          237          80          48           5        390       166     149
1989       47          257          80          48           1        390       166     149
1990       50          278         110          68          18        485      278      149
1991       54          300         110          73          19        485       316-    149
1992       59          324         110          85          26        560      391      149
1993       64          351         110          87          23        560       391     149
1994       69          382         110          88          19        665      458      149
1995       75          414         110          93          18        665      458      149
/a  Reserve margin   dependable capacity - peak demand.



-63-                         ANNEK 12
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
Yonki Hyroelectric Project
The 1985-1995 Power Development.Plan
1.        ELCOM's generation expansion plan, 1985-1995, includes ongoing works
totaling 26.7 MW, and new projects of 140 MW capacity, as followst
Table 4.4: ELCOM'S GENERATION PROGRAM (1985-1995)
Project                   Type               Capacity (1w)    Completion date
1. Under Construction
Noitaka               diesel                      12            1985
Rouna IV              hydro                       13            1986
Mini-hydro plants     hydro                      1.7            1987
Subtotal                                   26.7
2. New Projects
Yonki                 hydro                       30            1990
Lae                   gas turbine                 12            1987
Luwini                hydro                        2            1989
Noitaka               diesel                       6            1990
Ramu 2A               hydro                       90            1995
Subtotal                                   140
Total                                    166.7
2.        The major transmission system expansion plan involves (a) the
reinforcement of the existing networks to cope with the increasing load
requirements and to improve system reliability; and (b) the construction of
the-transmission line for system interconnection. Details are sumnmarized
below:



- 64 -
AMNEX 12
Page 2
Voltage
level   No. of    Length  Completion
Project                                   (kV)    circuits   (km)      date
1. Under Construction
Port Noresby Reinforcement               66   single         -    1985
Ramu Reinforcement (Phase 1)             132   single      220    1986
2. New Projects
Ramu Reinforcement (Phase 2)
Ramu-Goroka No. 2 line                132   single       80    1987
Goroka-Mt. Hagen No. 2 line           132   single       140    1988
Ramu-Lae No. 2 line                 132/220   single        110    1989
Ramu-Port Moresby Interconnection        220   single      420    1994
3.        ELCOM is currently proceeding with plans to reinforce the Ramu
transmission system. Phase 1 will upgrade the existing Ramu-Lae and Ramu-
Madang lines to 132 kV operation. Both lines were initially built and
insulated for 132 kV, and all necessary transformers have been on-site in PNG
for some time.  This project will be completed soon after installation of 132
kV switchgear, currently on order, at Ramu and Lae.  The Ramu-Lae line is
expected to be operating at 132 kV by the end of 1985; the Ramu-Madang line is
expected to be operating at higher levels in 1986.  To improve voltage and
security of supply in the Highlands region, particularly if the Pauanda hydro
plant is taken off line, Phase 2 includes provisions for duplicate 66 kV lines
(132 kV construction) from Ramu to Goroka (1987) and from Goroka to Mt. Hagen
(1988). This reinforcement is required, whether the proposed Yonki
Hydroelectric Project proceeds or nott to improve the quality of supply to the
Highlands Region. The reinforced transmission system is capable of accepting
the generation from two additional units at the Ramu 1 power station. The
cost of the Phase 1 reinforcements will be financed by ELCON. The Phase 2
Highlands Reinforcement Project (Ramu-Goroka-Mt. Hagen) is being considered
for financing by ADB.
4.        The cost of the Power Development Plan (excluding interest during
construction) is estimated at about K 298.8 million (US$298.8 million) for the
period 1985-1995. Of that total, K 183.7 million (US$183.7 million)
represents foreign costs and K 115.1 million (US$115.1 million) represents
local costs (Table 1).



-65-                              ANNEX 12
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI MYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Comiission
Power Investment Plan, 1985-95
(K million)
Project cost
Local        Foreign       Total
Generation
Under Construction
Moitaka diesel                                 1.2           4.7           5.9
Rouna IV hydro                                 4.9           16.3         21.2
Minihydro plants                               1.2            1.8          3.0
Subtotal                                      7.3          22.8          30.1
New Projects
Yonki hydro                                  24.5           31.6          56.1
Lae gas turbines                               0.8           2.7           3.5
Luwini hydro                                   2.1           4.1           6.2
Moitaka diesel                                 0.5            3.0          3.5
Ramu II A                                    26.6           49.4          76.0
Other diesel sets                              2.0           6.1           8.1
Other generation works                         2.2           2.2           4.4
Subtotal                                    58.7           99.1         157.8
Major Transmission
Under Construction
Port Moresby reinforcement                     0.7           1.5           2.2
Ramu reinforcement (phase 1)                   0.2           0.6           0.8
Subtotal                                     0.9            2.1           3.0
New Projects
Ramu-Goroka No. 2 line                         2.9           6.6           9.5
Goroka-Mt. Hagen No. 2 line                    6.2           9.3          15.5
Ramu-Lae No. 2 line                            8.6           12.9         21.5
Ramu-Port Moresby interconnections            29.3          29.4          58.7
Other transmission works                       1.2            1.5          2.7
Subtotal                                    48.2           59.7         107.9
-   Total                                       115.1          183.7        298.8



- 66 -
ANMEX 13
Page 1 of 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YONKI UYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Pertinent Project Data
1.   Location                                Yonki dassite on Ramu River about
0.5 km from Yonki township and
about 0.3 km downstream from the
ezisting Highlands Highway
crossing.
2.   Catchment area                          850 sq km
3.   Average annual inflow                   983 x 106 cu m
4.   Flood
Probable maximum flood (PMF)          10 600 cms
Measured maximum at Yonki             610 cms
5.  Reservoir
Maximum high water level              EL 1268.7
Normal high water level               EL 1 258 m
Normal minimum water level            EL 1 230 m
Available drawdown                    28 m    6
Storage at EL 1 258                   332 x 10  cu m
Storage at EL 1 230                   18.4 x 1066cu m
Active storage                        313.6 x 10  cu m
Surface area at EL 1 258              21.2 sq km
6.   Dam
Type                                  Zoned earthfill
Crest elevation                       EL 1 270 m
Mazimum height                        60 m
Crest length                          580 m
Volume of embankment                  1.86 x 106 cu m
Upstream slope                        1:3.5
Downstream slope                      1:3
7.   Cofferdams
Slope                                 Upstream.1:3
Downstream 1:3
Upstream cofferdam crest elevation   EL 1 238 m
Downstream cofferdam crest elevation EL 1214 m



-67-                      ANNM   13
Page 2 of 3
8.   Diversion conduits
Diameter                              2 x 4 m
Length                                430 m
Capacity                              238 cms
9.   Spillway
Type                                  Ungated open channel chute
Maximum discharge (PMF)               6 870 cms
Crest length                          85 m
10.  Outlet structure
Type                                  Wet tower with bulkhead dewatering
controls
11. Outlet works
Type                                  Concrete dissipator
Control valves                        Two 1.8 m cone valves
Guard valves                          Two 2.0 m butterfly valves
Maintenance release valves            One 1.8 m cone valve
One 2.0 m butterfly valve
12. Highway relocation
Length                                6 km
13. Local road relocation
Length                                16 km
14. Additional power generation facility in Ramu 1 power station
Turbine capcity                       15.5 MW rated, 17.5 MW maximum
Number of units                       2
Turbine
Type                                Vertical shaft, francis turbine
Rated head                          185 m
Discharge at rated output           9.4 cms
Revolving speed                     750 rpm
Generator
Type                                Vertical shaft
Number of units                     2
Output                              18,000 KVA
Voltage                             11 kV
Frequency                           50 Hz



- 68 -
AM=  13
Page 3 of 3
Transformer
Number of units                     2
capacity                            18900 KVA
Voltage                             11/138 kV



-69-                           ANNEX 14
Page
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YOWI MYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Construction Management Services
Papua New Guinea Electricity Commission (ELCOM) requires the services of an
Engineering Consultant to supervise the construction phase of the Yonki
Hydroelectric Project. The Engineering'Consultant shall be responsible for
the administration of contracts in accordance with the respective conditions
and for the supervision of construction and technical control of the execution
of the Works and the satisfactory completion and commissioning thereof.
Accordingly, Snowy Mount&ins Engineering Corporation of Australia (SMEC) will
be "The Engineer" for both the civil and plant contracts. The Engineering
Consultant shall also advise ELCOM on all matters affecting the execution and
satisfactory completion and operation of the Works in accordance with sound
engineering practice. In the discharge of their responsibilities the
Engineering Consultant shall perform the following duties:
A.   Carry out filed investigations And surveys, preparing designs,
drawings, estimates and other engineering documents as are necessary
for the construction of the Works including as may be applicable in
the particular case:
(i) Preparing all detailed construction drawings to enable the
Works to be constructed.
(ii) In the event of unforeseen design changes, carrying out
additional field investigations including topographical surveys
to obtain the necessary information on foundations and
construction materials including diamond drilling, test
pitting, soil sampling and testing and permeability testing
etc., at the site of the Works.
(iii) In the event of unforeseen design changes, preparing all
additional and supplementary drawings necessary for the
contractors to enable them to carry out the Works to completion
thereof within the time determined in accordance with the
contracts.
(iv) Preparing and periodic updating of schedules for engineering
procurement and construction.
B.   The supervision and administration of the contracts entered into by
ELCOM for the Works and the technical control of the construction of
the Works including as may be applicabLe in the particular case:



-70 -                        ANNEX 14
Page 2
(i) Undertaking all communications with the Contractors on behalf
of ELCOM.
(ii)  Establishing major reference points for vertical and horizontal
control of structural layouts and equipment installations as
datum for setting out of the Works by the contractors.
(iii) Supervising and controlling on the site of the Works the due
and proper execution and satisfactory completion of the Works
in-accordance with the specifications. Administering all
contracts and coordinating the work required to maintain
engineering procurement and contractors' schedules to achieve
the most economical cost of the Works and completion thereof
within the time determined in accordance with the contracts.
(iv) Carrying out all measurements required for the processing of
all claims for progress payments for the contracts.
(v) Processing and certifying all certificates for payments due to
contractors for materials, works, plant, machinery and
equipment supplied or to supplied, delivered or erected under
all contracts which are entered into by ELCOM for the execution
of the Works. The Engineering Consultant shall also issue
certificates of completion and for taking-over and final
certificates relating to contracts.
(vi) Examining contractors' proposals including fabrication and
assembly drawings to ensure full compliance with the
specifications.
(vii) Give all necessary instructions to the contractors to ensure
completion of the works to the highest standards, provided that
no instruction shall be given (except in an emergency situation
which is considered by the consultant Engineer to increase the
cost of Works by more than K 10,000, without prior approval
from the client.
(viii) Inspecting all plant, machinery, equipment and materials
supplied by Contractors or Subcontractors for the Works in the
respective places of manufacture by means of both locally based
inspection services and specialist visits by the Engineering
Consultant including arranging and supervising of tests to
ensure full compliance with he specifications before delivery
and submitting to ELCOM periodically reports on inspections
carried out.
(ix) P-.paring and submitting to ELCOM monthly and quarterly
pcogress reports in a form to be approved by ELCOM.
(x)  Arranging and supervising tests of materials, works, plant and
machinery on the site of the Works to ensure compliance with
the specifications.



-71-                        ANNEX 14
Page 3
(xi) Keeping, maintaining and delivering to ELCOM in good condition
all site records which are necessary for the operation and
maintenance of the Works.
(xii) Supervising the preparation and submission to ELCOM in good
time "as built" drawings covering all parts of the Civil Works
and one set of microfilms and transparencies of these drawings.
(xiii)  Supervising the preparation and submission to ELCOM in good
time of Completion Reports and Operation and Maintenance Manual
for the Civil Works.
(xiv) Supervising the preparation by the Plant Contractor in
accordance with the requirements of Contract 19/85 of work-as-
executed drawings and operation and maintenance instructions
for the whole of the Plant.
(xv) Advising ELCOM on all spares requirements for contracts and
controlling the cataloguing of all spares in accordance with
ELCOM's requirements.
(xvi) Assisting in settling disputes or differences which may arise
between ELCOM and Contractors.
C.   Duties of a general nature including as may be applicable in the
particular case:
(i) Performing any duties which the Consulting Engineers may be
required to carry out under any contract entered into by ELCOM
for the execution of the Works.
(ii) Performing all necessary services and duties with respect to
the proper engineering, field supervision and management on the
site of the Works to ensure successful commissioning and
operation of the Works.



-72-                             AMNNEX i
Page 1
PAPUA NEW CUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRICITY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Provision of
Training Consultants
Objective
To assist ELCOI to finalize and implement short and long term
training objectives, policies and programs in order to improve organizational
effectiveness and individual job performance and to accelerate the
localization program.
Scope of Work
A training expert and two technical officers with knowledge and
experience of electric utility operations will work directly on the training
function with ELCOM's managers. The scope of work includes:
-    Finalize the priority training needs and long-term training
requirements within the framework of the long-term manpower plans.
-    Finalize the review of the training facilities and equipment
available and conclude proposals for the provision of the necessary
resources.
-    Finalize the organizational changes and the changes approved for the
activities of ELCOM's training function and implement the revised
structures and staffing.
-    Finalize the five-year training program for ELCOM.
-    Prepare training manuals and curricula for the training program.
Terms of Reference
The consultant will in particular:
(i)  Review and analyze all the training and manpower development studies
completed in ELCOM in the past five years.
(ii)  Discuss and agree with managers regarding the priority training
needs and present and anticipated job performance deficiencies,
considered in the light of future needs.
(iii)  Finalize proposals for the organization structure, staffing
arrangements, and interdepartmental relationships for the training
function.



73
AM=  15
Page 2
(iv) Finalize the review of the existing training facilities, equipment
and accommodations, aid in implementing a plan for providing
refurbished and new facilities and equipment. Where special
facilities for operation training are necessary, the extent and
location for these should be determined.
(v) Develop, refine and implement training programs for supervisors to
improve their skills in implementing on-the-job training programs.
(vi)  Assess effectiveness of the training instructors and further develop
and implement an instructor training program including assistance in
training situations and course preparation.
(vii) Review all existing training courses and curricula and produce
training manuals for all (a) introductory training; (b) improved
performance training; (c) development training; and (d) instructor
and supervisor training.
(viii) Develop and further implement the program of training fellowships
for local managers to study utility practices and procedures abroad.
(ix) Coordinate the new training programs and developments with the new
systems being developed in the Engineering and Administrative
functions including: Management Information System, Standard
Operation Procedure Program, Job Category Classification System,
Kanpower Planning System, and others as appropriate.



74_
ANNEX 16
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COO4ISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRICITY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for the
Development of Rural Electrification Polici and Standards
Objective
To ensure that an effective Rural Electrification Policy is properly
developed and documented to meet the specific requirements of Papua New Guinea
and to determine acceptable standards for distribution extensions in
accordance with that Policy.
Scope of Work
The technical assistance described herein shall include, but not be
limited to, the following scope of work.
Ii) To review the development of Rural Electrification in PNG and
to identify the financing and pricing policy issues related to
load development prospects and the capital and operating
charges.
(ii) To review and agree the institutional and policy framework, the
project criteria and the procedures for Rural Electrification
tailored to the specific needs of PNG.
(iii) To produce a manual on design a.,d construction standards for
distribution eztensions and to implement an appropriate
training program in connection with design standards and
construction techniques.
(iv) To identify the social and economic factors and the
unquantifiable benefits which would be useful to clarify
criteria for selecting rural electrification projects.
Terms cf Reference
(i) Review the various reports and studies on Rural Electrification
in PNG. In particular, reference should be made to the
following topics.
(a) Review methodology in connection with deriving rural
electrification project benefits, with particular
attention to customer acceptance, load growth and
consumption patterns for typical rural supply systems in
PUG.



-75-                            ANNEX 16
Page 2
(b) Review the methodology used in the analysis of the costs
of diesel generation and develop a basis of comparison
with uetwork supply costs taking capital, operation and
alternative sources of electricity supply factors into
account.
(c) Review the required levels of rate of return necessary to
justify subproject development.
(d) Review the procedures for the calculation of subsidies or
cross subsidies to help ELCOM meet the costs associated
with rural electrification.
(ii) Discuss with the relevant Government of PNG departments, ELCON,
and other appropriate agencies in PNG their views regarding
Rural Electrification policy and plans.
(iii)  Examine and evaluate ELCOM's distribution design standards and
systems with particular reference to the following:
(a) Production of a set of standards suitable to PNG
conditions, involving all distribution extension criteria.
(b) Prepare a manual of procedures for stock procurement and
inventory in connection with distribution materials.
(c) Prepare and implement a training program covering design
standards and construction techniques for ELCOM
Distribution Branch personnel.
(iv) Identify productive uses and social improvements that would be
derived from Rural Electrification.
(v) Review and agree with all the agencies concerned the overall
policy framework and the investment criteria for Rural
Electrification in PUG.



-76-                                AM11   17
PAPUA NEW GU1NEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Commission
ProjectA;Cotst8timate
Foretgn cost
Local/a  Foreign  Total  as I of total
Civil Works
VWs           -                                I2.43       6.15    8.58         72
Spillway                                          3.09     5.19    8.28          3
Outlet works                                      2.6!     5.22    7.23         :2
Road relocations                                  0.49     1.79    2.28        -44
Contractor's establishment                        5.98     2.65    8.63         31
Subtotal                                      14.00    21.00   35.00         60
Electrical and Mechanical
Electrical plant (Including step-up
transformers)                                   1.45     4.01    5.46         73
Mechanical plant                                  0.55     0.99    1.54         64
Subtotal                                       2.00     5.0o    7.00         71
Construction related establishment expenses
Construction facilities                           2.50      -       2.50         -
Compensation and resettlement                     1.20      -       1.20         -
ELCOM administration                              1.80      -       1.80         -
Subtotal                                       5.50      -      5.50          -
Engineering and Consulting Services /b              3.00     5.60    R.60         65
Traing
-rovison of training specialists                  4.40     1.10    5.50         20
Provision of additional training facili-
ties and equipment                              5.00     1.20    6.20         20
Overseas fellowships                               -       0.30    0.30        100
Subtotal                                       9.4      2.60   12.0          22
Manpower Development Studies
Standardization of internal systems and
procedures                                       -       1.00    1.00        100
Technical audit                                    -       0.30    0.30        100
Subtotal                                        -       1.30    1.30       1t0
Institutional Support Technical Assistance           -       1.20    1.20         33
Rural Electrification
Study                                             0.20     0.10    0.30         33
Arona Valley                                      0.30     0.50    0.80         63
Other pilot projects                              0.70     1.80    2.50         72
Subtotal                                       1.20     2.40    3.60         67
Total Base Cost /e                            35.10    39.10   74.*.)        53
Contioencies
PAysical /a                                       4.20     5.00    9.20         54
Price                                             7.70     8.50   16.20         52
Total Project Cost                            47.00    52.60   99.60         53
Interest during construction                        7.30    10.50   17.80         S9
Total Financing Requirement                   54.30    63.1   11?.40         54
/a  US$   R 1.
7n  Includes US$1 million PPF from the Bank, which will be refingnced from the pro-
posed loan, and US$1 million equivalent grant from DAB.
/c  Includes import duties and taxes of about US$1.2 million equivalent.
7r Physical contingencies include 152 for civil works, and lOX for electrical and
mechanical equipment, training and rural electrification.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONIn HYDRO ELECRIC PROJCT
O 0naon Chat of Coh          Unit
I .     | 
av~ow & buw6ckvy)
zzrzzL~~ ~~~~~~~AOAyUa
Cafon#or   COr -Wi                  LOMO
omoo  HOWCNkm---     --  --    --                                 uIi
urn~
Gonftm W ~ ~   O~  si      fa'h(V       u o '' o 1 cI~ h  Bign ch (CW)  & 'h( M
.J   LJLW1: ..... ::-o_
~*-' - - -'--'-'--'-''1  I
llr.x. I S z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PAPUA NEW GUNA
6eeCnvonnm
YoW HydmeMc PrOct
ConRcon Schedub
0 N 0 I M1A UA J J A  0 N 0 J F   A M    A    N 0 J F M AM J J A SN 0 J F A AM J J A       N 0 I F U A.      
2 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aviACmt
a outm lovm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
43 OUt*I S1ih
X C. m|  
6 Dotm
C' fonete
Q Locc3 Rood
10 PAQ CorKut & ktOi" M=on?rice
RAMII HI CIRICAL & REC#4AMCAL
12 Un'1 4
scoon Case
tut.n I-encWax & Sndm
13 ULr$S
?tz~~~.n Gwwoloc & T~~~~~Mr4kadas                             E'lr..
?urt>n  MoeoOo&T                                                                     riX=*- GX
,//S                                                                                         walf iB:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Li_



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
89McfCommMloin
Yorkl Hdreectc PRozct
EBN heU    Traig, Technicl Asianes
ond Rurl  neWtffion
Implemfialng Schedules
498t            tsso              1987              1990               MP99             4990
ACWmESIA HE  JJAISlO IDJFMAMJJIABN141F HA J  J|J|A|S|O|N|D JA|  J|J|A| O    .   A JJASON|JI   aJJ
d Ccn*uftn%pWA* 
a T;ok*Conw*ort3
c.                                                                                                                                          '-A~~~~~~~~~m
Cft FM~I*dEWhIgFm
4 m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5wcA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 1' Wot3



-     80-                          ANNEX 21
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Commission
Key Dates of Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Start     Complete
1. Yonki Dam Civil Works
- Prequalification of contractors
including Bank review                             10/10/85   11/11/85
-  Tender period                                      12/01/85   03/01/86
- Tender evaluationz, lending agencies
review of tender evaluation report
and award recommendation
-  Contract award and mobilization                   03/02/86   06/31/86
-  Construction of civil works                       09/01/86   12/31/90
2. Ramu 1 Electrical and Mechanical Works
-  Tender period                                     03/01/86   04/30/86
- Tender evaluation, reco_mendation,
review and contract award                         05/01/86   10/01/86
-  Design, manufacture and delivery                   10/02/86   12/31/86
-  Installation and testing                          08/01/89   07/31/90
-  Commercial operation Unit No. 4                   05/31/90
-  Commercial operation Unit No. 5                   09/01/90
3.  Construction Supervision                             07/0/186   07/31/90
4. Training
-  Training consultants                              01/05/87   12/31/89
- Upgrading existing training facilities
and providing new equipments                      01/05/87   12/31/88
-  Overseas fellowships                              08/01/89   03/31/89
5.  Institutional support technical assistance
-  Job classification study                          01/05/87   11/30/87
- Development of standard operating
procedures                                        01/05/87   02/28/88
- Technical audit of the engineering
function                                          03/01/88   08/30/88
6.  Rural Electrification
- Institutional and policy development
study                                             01/05/87   12/31/87
- Extension of the electricity supply
networks in the Arona Valley                      01/05/88   12/31/89
-  Pilot projects                                    07/01/88   07/31/90



- 81 -                              AMUEX 22
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
EECTRICUTY COMMISSION
YONKI HYDOELRCTfIC PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement profiles         Fstimated disbursement schedule
(cumulative X disburse_ent)   Cumulative   Disburse-
Bank fiscal                     t                  disburse-  ment during  Cumulative
Year and             Bank-wide /a                   ment      semester      disbursement
Semester                                                            USS million)
1987
Dec 31, 196M                                         -            -
Jun 30, 1987             3.0                        5.0          1.4 /b         1.4
1988
Dec 31, 1987             8.0                       10.0          1.4            2.8
Jun 30, 1988             16.0                      16.0          1.7            4.5
1989
Dec 31, 1988            26.0                       26.0          2.9            7.4
Jun 30, 1989            37.0                       37.0          3.1           10.5
1990
Dec 31, 1989            48.0                       50.0          3.7           14.2
Jun 30, 1990            60.0                       65.0          4.3           18.5
1991
Dec 31, 1990            71.0                       80.0          4.3           22.8
Jun 30, 1991            80.0                       95.0          4.3           27.1
1992
Dec 31, 1991            87.0                      100.0          1.4           28.5
Jun 30, 1992            93.0                         -            -              -
1993
Dec 31, 1992            97.0                         -            -
Jun 30, 1993           100.0                         -
/a   Based on 55 hydroelecric projects, IBRD and IDA financed.
7i   Includes US$1 million, plus interest, to reimburse the outstanding PPF.



-82-                          Amu.z23
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY-COM4ISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table of Contents
Page
Key Financial Indicators                                        2
Income Statement                                                3
Flow of Funds Statement                                         4
Balance Sheet                                                   5
Derivation of Average Tariff                                    6
Annual Investment Program                                       7
Capitalization Values                                           8
Fixed Asset Formation                                           9
Financing of Investment                                        10
Capital Structure                                              11
Borrowings Statement                                           12
IBRD Loan Parameters                                           13
Comercial Borrowings                                           14
Sales and Generation                                           15
Direct Cash Flow                                               16
Taxes and Dividends                                            17
Receivables and Payables                                       18
Assumptions to Financial Projections                           19



P#MI MO ENEFA
lDli NlHELRIC  FlT                                                            f2
AKFINWIIL STAtM
Key FisaeciaJ  aictr
fi"iu1at UV Emlad OK. it           991    IM6     1993    1994    99   .  964    1997    98        19KR    1990    199    192    9         1994
NMIi    IE                    423     394      399     421     466      501     550      585     624      66      76      749      796     69
EABEI ITFAIhII                 10.2    12.1    14.1    13.6    i3.7    13.713.7    14.5    5.1    15.4    1789   t9 6    21.0    21.0
ML IBM   - cT    P RICES                                    13.9    13.7    13.      12.4    12.3    119    11.2    12.2    12.9    13.2    12.7
WM11 9 EWE   f lBillam)           43.1    47.9    56.0    57.9    63.8    *6.7    75.4    64.9    94.2   01.9   125.1     4          67.0   1762
MI. I. ElV. I TAIIS 11K M.)       3i.8    35.6    44.3    40.5   666.0    47.3    52.0    59.7    65.3    68.8   7n.2           0.6   103.6    9.9
ElT WIRTIII     m 1It( Mm.)        4.3    12.2    13.1    22.0    27.9    25.4    25.0    26.3    29.0    33.1         484     6.       707     92
IEt lIE SIFII7U 11111     )         1.5    11.9     6.3    11.2    16.7    15.4    17.1    17.6 10.4    19.4    19.9    20.2    33.2 47           .
Inm   a   i1ll1                   0.0      0.0     0.0      2.1     3.2     2.9      3.3     3.4      3.5     3.7      3.8     5.4      6.3      .6         Pr
RITE MS   tl  iliom)              92.9    95.4   129.8   160.3   171.3   207.6   241.1   264.4   299.1   319.1   465.3   49.7   576.0   453 S                  rae
tA1E                                                                                                                                                t   'K-
IIISTUICMIT amE  momS            5.92   16.42    9.21   10.92   12.62   10.31    9.8t  1002    9.2          9.62    9.91   1.52   11.02   12.02             10.5
EYWE  EEl                                                 3.51    4.62    3.92    3.21    2.82    2.62    2.62    3.82    4.n2    4.72    5.M                  3.82
5EF F*Ii         NTINJ             16.52   #3.n    36.6   3.2    42.7n   40.51   34.62   29.01   2.72   31.72   26.42   37.            29.2    3.6 U3.22
Em  VE2IIE    i                     1.6     4.1     2.0      2.9     3.1      2.7     2.9     2.9      2.7     2.3      1.6     1.5      1.6     1.7              2.3
[ElDt   "A  MATT                  47.32   47.62   46.n    44.52   46.62   49.32   53.21   57.82   61.3    62.1   63.31   62.0U O         2. 4.21 2t.12
P    IVtKS 1311.                   0.01    0.02    0.02    2.22    2.92    2.41    2.42    2.32    2.12    2.02    1.92    2.42    2.61    3.02                   2.41
1F953410t                       90.9    74.52   76.6    62.1%   5622   63.1i   66.6    69.9    69.22   67.52   61.3    572 a          7.im    49.42           61.6
I1    N QTIS                     9CH7   76.4    74.22   64.42   70.02   91.6    99.n   100.2   83.62    74    55.9    51.7n   46.0    93.n                      70.62
IWIE   RE1UVM. - 1116              2.2      2.2     2.7      2.2     I.?      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5              1.5
WIXn  PANYE  - mom                  IA      1.1     2.2      1.6     2.0      1.9     2.0      2.1     2.1     1.9      1.B     1.7      1.6     2.0              1.9
_._a _C==5X5__w____$/ll=CI_55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-~~~~~~ CW_~~~~~
0



MM  FtOenci& StatMetS                                                                             17.pr4-5
IIcom  Statement                                                       tap I
IK r1li.                                                            Of 21
fimwid Vw  Edd Usc. 31            1961    192    I3         193     195    196       1917    19       198      190    19"1    I92    1993    199
- -    roSetios--      --
Total 9  ratie   l(lE)             440      443     453      479     519     540      614     453      494     70       7p7     6t37     90      949
Len.  it)                            el      III     121      122     102      10t     103      103     10n     102      102     Int      11I     Ill
ur   sold lflt)                    423      39      3SB      421     46       501     i50      585     642     62       705     7        79      649
keram.  bm     ITn/klW)           10.2    12.1    14.1    13.       13.7    13.7    13.7    14.5    15.1    15.4    17.8    19.4    21.0    21.0
MOVIEU E1U                        43.1    47.1    54.0    57.9    63.0   6U.7    75.4    4.           9.2   101.9   125.1   146.5   167.0   176.2
Theat h atian                     21 .3    16.8    20.3    10.8    12.4   1268    19.2    23.5    26.0    26.5    31 5    35.7    40.4    26.4
Hydr Imneatina                      1.5     2.9     2.9      2.4     2.6      2.7     2.1      2.3     2.7     2.7      3.0     3.3      3.4     4.8
Traimsiem                          1.7      1.1     1.5      1.1     1.0      1.0     1.1      1.3     1.7     2.2      2.4     2.5      2.4     3.0
Distribution                       2.6      2.3     2.4      2.4     2.2      2.5     2.0      3.2     3.6     4.0      4.5     4.9      5.4     5.9
Um,istrati,                        6.2      6.3     7.8    11.2      8.6      9.2    10.2    11.4    12.6    14.3    15.6    17.2    13.        20.3
Traihi                             1.0      1.1     1.1      1.0     I.9      2.1     5.0     5.6      3.9     3.2      2.9     3.0      3.2     3.3
owwreition                         4.5      5.1     6.7      6.8     7.2      9.0     9.0    21.0    12.6    15.6    16.7    I8.L    22.5    23.6
Total Operating Espos             360      35.6    42.T    35.9    35.    43.3    50.3    56.6    65.3    66.8    74.7    64.7    9.3    28.0
MET malills IIICIIIE               4.3    12.2    13.1    22.0    27.9    25.4    25.0    26.3    2S.0    33.1          4      61.9    70.7    90.2
bmIeeratiq Incobe                   1.1     3.4    41.12    0.1      0.1     *.1      0.2     0.1      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.3
NET amE UWINIEIT                   5.4    15.6    12.0    22.1    28.0    25.5    25.2    2W4         29.1    333    40.6    62.1    70.9    90.4
1.1. Interet Paymens               4.2      5.2     7.0      6.4     4.8    10.9    14.4    19.6    24.8      3        37.5    HA.    45.       52.3
Q)asI  terest CI1taInd             0.3      1.5     2.7     0.3      1.9     4.9      L.     11.0    15.2       2      11.3    IL. 1    15.2    I.
511K1T CM=  10 PtiTUS              3.9      3.7     4.3      6.3     4.9     6.1      6.4     9.6    10.6    13.9    21.1    2.0    30.3         34
MM Wm  DEF TU T   I SIWhlUK        1.5    11.9      7.7    25.8    23.1    19.4    1.L    17.9    18.4    19.4    22.5    34.1    40.6    57.0
Incowe Tun                                          1.4      4.6     6.4     4.0      1.7      .0      L.o     0.0     2.5      5.9     7.4    11.8
ET   NS   AFIt llU                 1.5    11.9      6.3    11.2    14.7    15.4    17.1    17.3    18.4    29.4    I.9S   20.2    33.2    0.1
31I46*                                                       2.1     L.2      2.9     3.3     3.4      3.5     3.7      3.8     5.4      4.3     6.6
ET IWRS                             1.5    11.9     6.3      9.1    13.5    12.5    13.9    14.4    14.9    15.7    16.1    22.6    26.9    36.6
Pm*U8Y m,Ua..                    m rnrn,u                    m sinn m                 mu _                                 __M



GMFl_dslud St 7ts
FINof 9.46 Slatmio                                                        Pap4
(K 3331.5n                                                            of 25
l     I W   Sad kg. 35            193193                     9       9 1     93      1967         1    99    1990          1    991    5992    599  599
___~~     --_-------Prjetsc
_no      co   ___I
he.. Isle, latest   50.6   5.     12.0    22.1    230    2t5o    23.2         o.4    29.1    33.3    A.L        21    79.9    ".4
~~ laSts                  6~~~ ~~          ~~~.5  Li Li  4.7  .  7.2  9.      .3    31.0    I2       15.3    14.7    33.5    22.5s   23.6
4       is. I                 5.              (.4)1.4    I1.0    L.5    0.6     0O.      0.0      o       0.0     0       0.*       I.   0.0
uStIU                             35.3    207      17.3    2.9       5.     34.5    3.0    37.4    41.7    4.5    W2             .2    9.6   154.0
a"1 9L%e        ited  bu.          2.t    12.0)   1.0.    fell    11.41    0.7        1.0     4.0    11.01    0.1    11.11   IL         1.41   16.71
to  AVA. A    3 EN                 9.7    23.2    I3I    23t        27.2    260    29.1    34.0    39.2    4.9    60.4    75.5    iJ.3   W9.3
li  11SNItE 
lateust P    1pd to 3wrat1s        3.9     3.7      4.3     6.3      4.      4.1      6.4     8.6    10.3    13.9    26.1    2L0    30.3 32.4
Inailpal ~~~~oju.ts ~2.2           2.0     4.3      3.4     3.9     4.0      3.5     3.2      3.9     4.0    35.4    532    22.        27.0
Total lit bim                      4.1      5.7     9.1     9.9      L.      IO.     9.t    11.0    14.7    19.9    3.0    46.1        2       40.4
tM  WuL. FM  OPtIS                 3.6    17.5      9.0    IL#      I3.6    14.7    19.2    22.2    24.5    24.9    22.        25.4    30.4    39.0
ta.i Nasl.tric Projt                                                 3.2     5.6    17.4    19.9    21.5    10.7       2.4      0.0     0.0      0.0
Whr PRoect                      21,5    33.5    20.6    33.3    33.1    30.3    30.0    45.7    52.4049.4    64.5   .54.0    33.3   111. -2
t    a tditsulterut                0.3      1.5     2.7      0.3     3.9      4.6    3L.      11.0    15.2    13.3    11.3    33I    155.2    13.3
alCtl Iatast                      21.    40.0    23.3    13.6    43.1    U.2    55.4    76.6    3.7    735    90.2    47.1  14.0   130.0                                                              .
SU     13  1 foam                 16.2    22.5    14.3    45.2)   24.7    24.5    36.2    54.4    64.2    53.&    57.4    41.8    73.7    90.2
U01 I FUE!
Put stsruatl) Lao                 9.0    13.7      6.4      4.3
35 Flogacad Wowuau=  t Ls                                            3 1.0   1.6      7.9     9.5      6.5     2.1     0.3      0.0     0.0      0.0
FI famcid Bwomt Low                                                  0.0      2.4     7.2     9.1    11.1      6.4      1.1     0.0     0.0      0.0
El1 Flowed 6owora.di Lowm                                            0.0      1.3     3.3     4.1      6.5     1.7      0.6     0.0     0.0      0.0
Plesaii DovusotLoa                                           0.0     0.0     0.0    t0.?    30.3       4.2     0.0     0.       0.0     0.0
01   st SatustI Laoss                                          15.4      9.4     8.9      7.2    IL0   153.3    33.0    22.5    47.2    43.4
_oauwrcial Loams                                                     6.3    11.6    11.4    14.0    19.6    24.9    19.5        9.3    26.4    3.7
laws ..t of MI Eplty               5.5      3.7     3.7      2.4
TltAL FIE!                         1.6    22.5    10.6       6.7    22.U    26.4    39.1    55.2    42.2    53.0    56.5    41.6    73.7    90.2
CM  IIIR. (OER.) FOR VEW           (1.3)    (.0)   i.31    11.9    (2.1)    1.9       2.9      0.8    (2.01   (0.6)   (5.01      .0       .0     (.03
OPENJIG 3M411                      44.3)   (6.)    (.       19.3)    2.1      0.0     1.9      4.3     5.6     3.6      3.0       0        0      .0
CUSUIB DALalEE                     (6.5)   (6.1)   (9.33     2.1     0.0      1.9     4.6      5.6     3.6     3.0       .        0       0      (.0l
Dt         D      S     _      W     _     6            D           S     I     D     C     t     =    l     D    C    D     - l    DDDD$DD_D__=4__CID   Dl



(K Nllail                                                            0426
lAt -I       31                   1961    192    1963    1969    1965    199    196         19U      1969    1990    t91    192    19         19
kiss Fated hets is 1W.           129.1   139.9   205.2   209.9   241.6   2.7   327.4   369.0   420.4   513.9   6.6   65.    619.1              6.4
l1msskcumlAtd Uepreciatimn        31.9    36.7    43.6    50.9    56.0    67.0    76.9    97.0   100.4   116.2   132.    150.9   (73.5   191.1
at fised hees is Iet tiu          92.9    S7.9   161.9   159.1   193.5   231.    250.6  279.2    0.0   457.6   473.0   50.5   64.6   661.3
for is Pfnrm                      24.7    54.9      3.0    17.0    29.4    12$    39.2    7.2   111.5         6.     14.3   100.4    42.B   1$3.5
191m1  FIED 16515                117.9   152.9   U6.6   176.1   212.0   242   2B9.8   355.4   431.5   44.2   557.3   06.9   681.4   794.0
GOsh                               0.2     0.2      0.2     2.1     0.2      1.9     49.     56.      3.9     3.0     0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2
lavwteia                           6.3     9.6      9.9     6.3     9.3      7.0     7.5     9.0     8.6      9.3     9.9    10.3    10.6    11.3
AkCO.S hKvivAble                   7.9     6.6    12.5    14.5      9.1      3.7     9.       10.0    12.0    13.0    15.9 156    21.2    22.7
StOw  crnt  hts                    2.2     3.1      1.5     1.2      1.2     1.2     1.3     1.4      1.5     1.9     1.7      1.1     1.9     2.0
1916. CEII  US                    16.6    16.5    21.0    20.6    17.3    10.9    23.2    25.S,    25.0    29.9    27.7    31.0    34.1    31
tm-cvnmt khts                      0.9     0.5      0.3     0.1     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
tvesuts for $uf -1sWre             1.5     1.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
1tA. 16S11                       136.6   173.0  I.9   196.9   229.3   263.1   313.0   331.2   457.2   521.1   56.5   637.    722.5   9I0.9
LI931.195ITIS M l WI W
tiNnart of ME tnvustt             33.2    36.9    40.6    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0 
btaad Eie                         29.3    41.0    46.0    52.7    66.2    70.7    92.6   107.0   121.9   137.6   153.7   176.6   203.4   240.0
Reesluatim beerwe                                           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
MAL. WI MTV                       62.5    77.9    06.6    95.7   109.2   121.7   135.6   150.0   164.9   160.6   196.7   219.6   246.4   293.0
til Fi. Gto. Lt    - Vmhi                                          1.0     2.6    10.7    19.2    25.7    26.2    27.9    25.7    23.6    21.9
Prtvei    elw bd t wLons          22.1    21.1    20.5    19.4    10.2    17.0    15.7    14.3    12.8    11.2        9.5     7.7     5.7     3.6
Other Ewisting Loae               35.9    54.6    59.1    91.2   59.5    55.7    53.5    51.7    49.0    47.9    45.9   .43.9    41.7    39.9
E10 Fin. 6e*. lie- lsti                                             0.0     2.4      9.g    19.4    30.5    36.9    36.8    34.3    31.9    29.4
WID Fie. Govt. Loue - tsk                                           0.0     1.3      5.0     9.2    13.7    15.4    15.      14.5    13.4    12.4
Aiis. BWt. Low-Iam kri                                              0.0     0.0      0.0    10.7    20.6    25.0    25.0    24.2    22.5    20.0
Other bleat O1fficala Lown                                         15.4    24.7    33.9    40.9    51.0    63.8    95.    115.9   160.7   221.1
Camrcial Laee                                                       6.3    17.9    29.3    44.1    63.3    39.2   101.7   114.9   132.4   16.4
IlensI Carrot Nmtrities           t2.01    14.6)   (3.9)   (3.9)   14.01    :..5    (3.2)   t3.9)   (6.0)  (I1.M)   (19.2)  (22.9)  127.01  (30.0)
TOTAL B_lJiS                      56.0    70.9    76.0    76.7    95.3   113.2   154.1   205.4   261.5   302.9   339.2    L.4   404.1   495.2
U7TLIUIUTIES
Lt yhtd ltbrw im                   6.3     6.3    10.0      0.0     0.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.2     *.2     0.2      0.2
titnrmt Lbatrities of 1. T. 0.     2.0     4.6     3.6      3.9     4.0     3.5      3.2     3.9     6.0    11.6    16.2    22.6    27.0    NA.
kcmtts Payable                     6.7    1.0     8.9      6.3     7.7     9.5    11.8    15.1    17.9    13.7    21.2    22.0    26.2    29.1
Provtiond fe lncee Tax                             2.6      6.9     6.4     4.0      1.7      .0     0.0     0.0      2.5     5.9     7.4    11.i
Puisin Ie Divided                                           2.1     3.2     2.9      3.3     3.4     3.5      3.7     3.7     5.4     6.3     6.6
Oties Current Liabilities          3.1     3.1      3.1     3.2     3.2     3.2      3.3     3.4     3.5      3.9     3.7     3.9     3.9      4.0
TgtAt mlii LIMILITIES             13.1    24.2    28.3    24.4    24.7    23.1    23.2    25.8    30.3    37.6    49.6    59.9    71.0    S2.7
0IA UPIS. MID ET N11             139.6   173.0    9.9   196.1   229.3   263.1   31.0   391.2   457.2   521.1   585.5   637.8   722.5   630.9
==: =:         === =           z==c s====.s=======n=p=3r;wS3 Xc              = unss =EnflzSs       n=n==.==_e     s==n=cnn==n===._        .==s



ELaI Financial Statments                                                                          t7-84
Drivation of Avsit Tariff                                                   Pap I
1K Nlillion                                                           of 21
Finacial Tear Eded Dec. 31         IS81    1982    1913    I984    IS05    3906    3987    I918    3989    39 19         93    3992 I    993    3994
__e___ _i ted -~ ----   - ---   ---  -Prir ------------   - --
c33UTRINtiUi TO llUlESTEIEtT
ETTEIISES
Tbe4al bearation                  21.3    16.0    20.3    10.8    12.4    16.8    19.2    23.5    20.0    26.5    31.5    35.7    40.4    26.4
NV6VO Oaewatiin                     1.5     2.9     2.9      2.4     2.6      2.7     2.1      2.3     2.7      2.?     3.0     3.3      3.4     4.0
traaissiin                         1.7    131       1.5      1.1     I.0      3.0     1.1      1.3     1.7     2.2      2.4     2.5      2.6     3.8
histributirk                        2.6     2.3      2.6     2.6     2.2      2.5     2.8      3.2     3.6      4.0     4.5     4.9      5.4     5.S
Adeinistrati.n                      6.2     6.3      7.8    1t.2     8.6      9.2    10.2    11.4    12.8    14.3    15.9    17.2    18.6    20.3
Train.;g                           13.0     3.3     II       1.0     1.9      2.      5 5.0    5.8     3.9      3.2     2.9     3.0      3.2     5.3
C19i 3EPR*Tli31 E--I--- 34.3    30.5    36.2    29.3    21.6    34.4    40.5    47.7    52.6    53.0    60.0                    6.      73.8    64.4
OtER 3ERDiAlTIlUL RE2UIRDEIIIS
RwkinoCa0ital Incr.                2.1    32.53   30.83    30.8)   (1.4)    0.7       2.0      l.0)   (1.0'    0.5    (I.4)   12.6)   t3.63   46.?)
TFses Payable                                                        6.4      4.0     1.7       .0     0.0     0.0      2.5     5.9      7.4   I3.8
DiSidud Paable                                                       3.2      2.9     3.3      3.4     3.5     3.7      3.8     5.4      4.3     6.4
total Ddt Dernce                   6.1      5.7     9.1      9.9     9.8    30.3      9.9    11.8    14.7    19.9    37.8    46.1    52.9   .60.4
STill W AilT6  CAStt NEEDS         8.2      3.2     8.3      9.1    17.0    17.8    15.8    15.2    17.2    24.2    42.5    54.8    63.1    74.2
TOTAL I TINE cm3 NEEDS            42.5    33.7    44.5    38.2    45.6    52.1    56.3    62.9    69.8    77.2   102.5   121.4   136.9   130.4
avow  AGE R   IN3EST311T          30.9    29.4    25.6    26.7    32.6    46.6    57.7    13.6    01.3    82.5    75.3           3. 8    100.4  013.0
Nilmm  Caotrib. to Investnt         I.9    49.7    44.92   73.91   55.72   35.62   3o.02   50.02   30.02   30.02   30.02   t7.0o    3o.bx   30.o1
bil3331 531J'3S CAN                0.6    14.1    II1.      19.7    18.2    I6.6    17.3    22.1    24.4    24.7    22.6    25.1    30.1    33.9
TOTAL REVENIE RIEED               43.1    47.0    56.0    57.9    63.8    68.7    73.6    84.9    94.2   101.9   125.1   146.5   167.0   172.5
"KER SRES (11)                     423      394     391      421     466      50t     55M      595     624      62      705     749      1%      149
Neessry Averag  evreneikb          10.2    12.1    14.1    13.0    33.7   03.7    13.4    34.5    15.1    15.4    I1.0    19.6    23.0    20.3
RAGE  TRIFF (ToalkWU)              10.2    12.1    14.1    13.8    13.7    13.7    13.7    14.5    15.3    15.4    37.8    19.6    21.0    21.0
tarf  Infre e  (2)                         19.02   16.22   -2.21   -0.5t    0.01    0.02    6.01    4.02    1.9    15.32   30.22    7.32    0.02
Rate of Return                     5.82    26.42    0.22    30.9    12.62   10.32    9.92      0.02    92.n     L.62    9.9n   II.5     1.   32.0S
5*33 finaiNg Ratio                 36.52   #3.72   30.U   18.22   42.72   40.52   34.6U   29.02   27.72   31.7    21.41   37.82   29.22    3.
Cash Available for lnvestt
lAfter Rat n9. Cap. Icrs.3       3.6    17.5      9.0    10.8    18.4    16.7    39.2    22.2    24.5    24.9    22.8    25.4    30.4    39.8



GIMI fiasaUcl Stdtmt                                                                             ?
bud [""twat Pwr s                                                      hsg 7
Total  Wood. Tat. Esp.                           367     9        39     99     393     32 
Fiumcial few Eded Eu. St    froject -        T@l9S-             to 93"    lw 5                               1  991   192    19        i9
Forsip i aEtiss  tacr                                          0.105   0.035   0.107   0.19   0.2n8  0.37    0.413   0.54   0.93s   0.-6
LKcl EucAlatl1 lCtae                                          -4.393   LO.U3   0.102   0.103   02   0.30    0.63   LIU .      0.  0LS
Yaili Ca                                                                                3     5.321.0  21.0  L  L  L  LS  2.4    0.S
F_ Ulsrect1 c.3 5Ai             .0            5.0                                     1.1     IJ      1.2
locteifiatm                   2.4             2.5                     0.3     1.       .5     LI. 
Irammlog              ~~~~~~5.3        5.I                            3.9    II4    0.7    0.3
llw Proeict EagiEdituss       1.0    0.4    5.1               2.4    0.3    0.         .9     1.1 .   01
Fiw I;*kw Cat c3                      0.4                                     9.7:5 IS  0     9.t    4.0    0.-
Fe co CotAltpvi               LS              a.5             0.0      L      1.1    2.3    2.9       1.7    04
Totald       bt                 530      0.4    52.1             2.      3.l    11.0   U4.2    13.      6.2    1.3    0.0               0.6
Loc  Cat Cc~~~~as     3~4.0             34.0                    3.4     LI5    36       3.6     LI      0.4
Rm Ilydrolctric Statimo       2.0             2.0                             0.2    0.5    0.6    0.4
bral t  ctrificatio           1.2             1.2                     0.3    0.5    0.3       0.t    0.3
Trans.,s                      9.4             9.4                     3.7    2.0    3.9    3.          .9
Otba Project Ecrp-nitur       3. S                    0.5             0.6     22      2.2      1      0.6    03
Lel k bat                     35.3    L.o   35.1              0S       I      0 LO    L5      LS      4.9    0.7
CJaicCmtiPKY                  4.2             4.2              .0    0.S       .0    3.0    3.0    0.16    0.3
Pvit4 Coticy                   71.1           7.7             0.0    L.       I.0    1.7    2.5       2.     0.4
Tota L_  Cad                    47.0    0_0   47.0        _       .      4.4    10.4    3.3   11.3    7.4    1.2    0.0         0.0    0.
31 5 "m l   0T CIS             100.0    0.4    9.6               3.2    7.5   2.2 2    3.5    254    33.7    2.4    4.0        L       0
.sInas.suu.                                                                                                                                                                               *
bug 4                         26.5    5.3    23.3            33.9    '.3
Luwas                         4.2             6.2                             4.2    2.0
Omi 76 6.0                                   74.0                                                             LS      4.9    23.    OM0
01w  "a                      4.1    3.3    3.0                       0.0    3.2
tt  owe kwuCt Co.                        6.4   306.4            13.9    L       6.4    2.0    0.        0.      LI      4.    S2.    4L
isa  lawati.
srt tsgi                      30.3     .9      .4             5.t                             0.0    2.7
Las                       35             3.                      0.9    i.5
3w  i3ud                       6.3            6.1                             0.S    1.3      1.3     LS      0.4     1.4     Li    0
lowl hel kw Ct                  21.9    0.9    21.0              5.t    0.9      2.t    1.3    2.1    4.1       0.4      1.4    Is      04
t6r _mar t3n Sus                 4.4             4.4             3.3    0.2      .4      .4      .4    0.5    L.        LI      0.0    046
Gr id blsffwcomt           35.3            25.0                                    33.6    302      4.0
P     id Mlerts..        IL7                I             0.3    3.8    0.3    0.4    4.2    6.2    2L3          33.    3I3
fatal Isist Ir m est        64.5    0.0    14.S              0.3    I.      0.3   32.0      44     3.163            33     1.        .
.   .   __ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.9L   L
33w TdraasEim aets             3.7?   03    21.4 42.                    3.1 22          L 3     ILI    4.3    0.        .      0.1 2.$
so ItaC IleBrks              37.2            37.2            0.1      .6    3.6    1.7    1.7    3.9    3.9                         LS ' 
Cad 3*sf          ats            7.}             7.3             3.3     1.0    3.0    1.0    3.0        3 1. ^  5..0    0.3    0.3    0.  3
UIscaIImuu tmiW  Cats   4444     .       4.0             5.      62      4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0       40      40       .       .
Pr.iuth3u3uii~~~srbmd  69.9    3.0   469                .7    6.      4.2    6.5    6.1    7.0i        1.     1.      1.9     Li3
Other Pat=s ksw Cat            391.7    36.   15.3              373     2.       49    1.2  3V.3    330    41.6    32.4    9.6l   ALI
Ph~~saca3~causpuy       34.~5          34.5             0.9     24       .2     34      36,    I.   0.3Al
tvice Cati"Mq                1120            312.0             .0      1.0    2.1    .3t   it.?   33.4    5.         33.5      .    452
L C1R51 - on  FUJECTS          93.2   1366  W56                 31L     30.    5.0   46.1    12.0    49O        WI5   54.0    II   3t1.
0T1L6    t   5MIS0              33.2    17.0   62               41.2    $.3    52.2    73.2   77.3    62        6t9    56.0   IL0  I33.2
33m1 Froga~ cat  sess            393.9                          0.       .9    4.1       .6     3.6    3.       0.      0.0    0.0    0.0
lm  I          fS              647.3           647.3            43.2    364    47.4      6     73.m     0.3   139    54.0              3.2
aa,amaaaaaaaaaa   aaaaaaaaaas.aa                              _      _ .............._ 



ELCOI Fiaaial Statuets
C.pstalioatl  Valus                                                   Pop I
Fseaa 1w tr  Ed    Ike 51      Total  hEand* Tot. sp.                                               1                                     of 21
Fiuusl fw Emd kc 31    Project Befre  1935-               t9o     1966    197       9 19 69ig      1990    1991    1992    199    1994
bt t5 m    1994
Freip Escalatila Factor                                          e.0     0.035   0.107   0.1IS   0.273   0.3CM    0.45O    0.524   0.592   0.664
Lacalclti r9M'n fator                                          -4.003   0.07    0,102   0.162   0.27    039 O.f1   0.A16   C.M    U.iA
vOiI INUOEIITICPOJC
on            r D4.5                           435              0.0     4.1    11.0    12.2    13.1      6.2     1.9
Runafdroolectric Statue      9.7             91.7             0.0     0.0     0.9     2.7     3.4      2.7     0.0
l1ed  ctrificatis               4.6             4.6             0.0     0.5       3.9    1.      0.6     0.6     0.0
tralasag                       13.9            16.9             U.0     1:.     4:6    5.4       3.6     LO      0.0
36Kw Prelect  E,pdiltwe        13.3    0.4    17.9              3.2     t         6       3. 4 4.0  4.4  1.1     0.5
TiMi inET CDO0.0    0.4    99.6                                    3.2     7.5    222    25.!   25.1    13.7        2.4
-gE fWml9
#    elctrIc  ew*loe
_   4                         29.1      6.4    22.7            14.3      a.4    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
LW*l                            7.9             7.9             0.0     0.0     5.2      2.7     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
be  2*                        137V.           137.9             0.0     0.0      0.0     0       0.      0.0     5.7     6.3    40*2    63.?
Wr  tro                        3.6              3.6             0.0     0.9    2.7       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Toutl lydro kw Cost             173.6     6.4   172.2             14.3     9.4     7.9     2.7     0.0     0.0      5.7     8.3    40.2    63.7
Dist koeatiln
Pert rWe*                      12.3    0.9    11.4              6.1      0       0.0     0.0     1.1     4.2     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Let                            4.3              4.3             0.0     1.0      3.2     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
6azelle Pninsult                3.0             3.0             0.0     0.o      0.0     0.0     0.0     1.4     0.0     0,0      1.6     0.0
Other 0i.t 9.8                                  9.3             0.0              0.4     1.7     I.9     0.3     0.7     2.4      1.1     0.I
Total hesel bse Cst              29.3     0.9   23.4               6.1     1.0     3.6     t.7     3.0      6.3     0.7     2.4     2.1     0.9                                                  
Otew Generation  erts             6.1             6.1              1.3     0.2     0.5     0.5     0.4      0.6     0.3     0.3     0.7     0.?                                                   3
lbjer Tr.ulssio ProjKts
RO   Grid hinfarceet          36,1.            36,1             0.0     0.0     0.0    15.4    14.6      6.1     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Re - PMI rid Intercoe.    ,_ .6                95.6             0.1     2.1     0.4      0.5     6.0     9.5    37.6    19.2    20.1     0.0
Toal War Trseuiamd              131.7     0.0   131,7              0.1     2.1     0.4    15.9    20.6    15.7    37.6   19.2    20.1       0.0
other Tronsiesion lorhs          44.6     8.3    36.3              2.9     1.7     2.6     6.4     9.7      6.6     15      1.7     1.2     0.0
rWho Distribetimn Uic            26.3             26.3             0.5     1.9     2.0     2.3     2.4      2.9 S   51      3.2     3.7     4.3
bPral Distriution lorhs           9.9             9.9              1.1     1.2     1.2      1.3     1.4     I.5     0.5     0.5     0.5     0.6
raellmw     itl Vrs            63.1            I3.1              L       7.2     4.      5.3     5.7      .1      6.5     6.      7.1     7.4
Proiect  elated OwreW            93.7     1.0    92.7              5.7     6.2     6.9     7.7     8.6      9.6    10.6    11.5    12.5    13.6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~---    --             -------- ... ....
Te.AL COST - OTHER MJECTS       583.2    16.6   566.6             11.=    30.6    30.0    45.7    52.0    49.6    66.5    54.0    36.3   111.2
TOTAL. PRJECt COSTS             63.2    17.0   666.2              41.2    38.3    52.2    7t.2    771    63.2    6.9    54.0    83.3  ll.2
lies,) Project costs expensed    38.9            18.9             0.0      i.9     4.6     5.6     3.6     3.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
1AMR  IlNESTEltT PRE            67.3             647.3            41.2    36.    47.4    65.6    73.5    60.3    6M        54.0     8.6 111.2



lCil Fiumial StatAmts                                                                               17 6
Fixed khut Foration                                                       tap9
(I lhlliul                                                              if 21
FimaKial Vow  Ende be. S1          19"1     1912    193    19S4 19            1986    IW7    199        1999    19       19"1     12    1993    194
I#IS  FIES AISSEIS
mlatip  alace                                               205.2   209.9   241.6   299.7   327.4   36.0   420.4   573.8   645.0   457.4   919.1
CmustrUCtUm                                                4.7    30.9    52.9    26.2    33.1    41.7   126.4    23.9    4.2   142.1    2162
bterest tCitalizd                                                   0.7     4.3      2.5     5.6    12.7    27.0       9.1    10.4    t9.0    13.1
Tejly locrm                                                   4.7    31.7    57.1    28.7    38.6    54.4   153.4    32.0    51.6   1U1,7    39.3
*lstorical Gross Fix.d ssets               134.6   205.2   209.9   241.6   299.7   327.4   366.0   420.4   S73.9   605.9   657.4   319.1   958.4
bReslutimal
i1aql Wale                                       33.5   433.1   46.3    47.b   593.5   662.6   752.4   96.8  1091.9  1173.8  1279.3  1502.2
Mlwaluttinn hstr                                 70.6      4.7    31.7    57.1    29.1    38.6    54.4   15.4    32.0    51.6    41.7    39.3
bsir tam Factor                                     7_       7    -0.51       n        n     7.51    7.7_    7.6_    4. 5_    4.5       4.5_    4.5
bwaled 6ross Fixed hussts                          433.1   460.3   497.6   591.5   662.4   752.4  B36.3  1091.9  1173.B  1229.3  1502.2  1610.0
levalutlo mime                                      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
605$ FIZED ISSETS                                  205.2   209.9   241.6   298.7   327.4   366.0   420.4   S73.6   fO5.8   657.4   819.1   056.4
Culativ  Deprc atkaa:
eing Skl ace                                              44.0    50.8    58.0    67.0    76.9    97.8   100.4   IU.2   132.9   150.9   iJ73.5
Asual lepreciatio                                          6.8      7.2     9.0      9.6    11.0    12.6    15.8    16.7    13.1    22.5    23.6
OtKED  DEFECIATI0_                                  44.0    50.8    58.0    67.0    76.8    87.1   100.4   116.2   132.9   150.9   173.5   197.1
IV  FIlED ASSETS IN WfERATIOK                               159.1   183.5   231.6   250.6   27T.2   320.0   457.6   47S.0   506.5   645.6   661.3
WM  1 P110RIESS
C.= Z. F:-=5CI 
Opening Balance                                                       17.0    28.4    12.5    39.2    77.2   111.5    36.6    94. i   100.4    42.0
Additionts:
Construction                                                       10.3   116.4)   21.2    32.6    31.3   166.10    45.0    12.9   453.91   64.9
Interest Capitals ed                                               1.2      0.5     5.5      5.4      2.5    16.9)    3.2      2.7    (3.81     5.8
Yearly Increase                                                      11.4   (15.9)   26.7    38.0    34.3   (74.9)   48.2    15.6   157.71    90.7
11  I PROGRESS                                               17.0    29.4    12.5    39.2    77.2   111.5    36.6    84.6   100.4    42.8   133.5
=55~r:=:=  :=:::e=:=                                       =:e_:S=5::F   =:==msesseG:s==Gss: -5G5#   =9



ELCU Fiaianial Statuents                                                                            17-Apr-96
fiOnaningofnvte                                                            Page tO
(P Nillicnl                                                             of 21
Financial Yw  Ended Dec. t                                            1995    191      19S7    198      199   M1         199      1992    IM3    194
TUTU. CUISiUTIE COST                                                 41.2    36.3    52.2    71.2    77.1    63.2    60.9    54.0    99.9   111.2
IITEST CWITALIZED                                                      1.9     4.9      9.     J1.0    15.2    16.3    tB.3    13.1    15.2    19.8
TOTAT IUWEStENI                                                      43.1    43.1       0.2    92.2    92.3    91.5    80.2    U7.1   104.0   130.0
OftS  OF FINANCE
Oponing Cash  alace                                                   2.1      0.0      1.9     4.8      5.6     3.6      3.0       .0      .0       .0
Internal Seration                                                     19.4    16.7    19.2    22.2    24.5    24.9    22.8    25.4    30.4    39.9
IlltIIII  SOIWCES OF FIIIIE                                          20.5    16.1    21.1    27.0    30.1    28.5    25.6    25.4    30.4    39.9
OFFICIAL IllERITIUIU. LOANS
DECF Financed Invernant Loan                                          0.0      2.4      7.2     9.8    11.1      6.4      1.1      0.0     0.0      0.0
Eli Fionaced  owrnoent Loau                                            0.0     1.3      3.B     4.1      4.5     1.7      0.6      0.0     0.0      0.0
4I Financed hwvrnont Lon                                              0.0      0.0      0.0    10.7    10.1      4.2      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
OtWr On-Lnt Internat. Loans                                          15.4      9.4      899     7.2    10.1    13.3    33.0    22.5    47.2   61.4
Total Official Loans                                                  15.4    13.0    19.9    31.9    35.8    25.7    34.7    22.5    47.2    63.4
ctsems5SSSssSts=WsSSSSS                                           s:ce:wsese=G==SSS SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS:csWsmfSSSSS                sflSss-s StSSSa"8csSss7De
IM6 Financed loverneent Loan                                          1.0      1.9      7.9     U.S      4.5     2.5      0.3     0.0      0.0      0.0
USSS  es ss=:sSUSS*SS5SS5                                       Scs::seeessUSUSSSS5S5SSSSSSU::es:=:=ste:::SScSs3UsSSSssteerSSS8SSS        3S555ssw
Corcial Loas                                                           &.3    11.6    11.4    14.6    19.6    24.9    19.5    19.3    26.4    24.7
TOTAT FINIICE                                                        22.6    26.4    39.1    55.2    42.2    53.0    54.5    45.6    73.7    90.2
52s e:::cSe555    :e:5:::                                      ZSSSSSSSS:z=S:SSSSSSSsss eSSSSss essSSSSSSSS=:Ce"cseSSSW"SSS"SSSSSSSSSUUS



E5CUi Financial 8t.t~.ti                                                                           l7-pr-86
Capital Structure                                                        f21
(K flillioul                                                          of 21
kA t ecmber 31 S9                           S1 S2    1983    1984    95    1966    1987    198        1969    199      I99     19tW     m3      194
----- ------itd            ---     ------------------r- ecti
LIADILITIES AIID El 19911
acav=3mm 1 e3= _
EOUtTY
sounat of 1U  lnstaut             33.2    36.9    40.6    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0    43.0
aetimed Eudisp                    29.3    41.0    46.0    52.7    66.2    71.7    92.6   107.0   121.9   137.6   153.7   176.6   203.4   2t0.e
Rnaadtica Deieve                   0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
ToL            - HET -IIIITH      62.5    77.S9    6.6    95.7   109.2   121.7   135.6   150.0   164.9   180.6   196.7   219.6   246.4   23.0
IMN  Fin. Sovt. Loan - Yonki       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     1.0     2.0    10.7    19.2    25.7    28.1    27.6    25.7    23.0    21.9
Provioas uwId Oank Loans           22.1    21.1    20,5    19.4    19.2    17.       15. 7    14.3    12.8    11.2      9.1     7.7      5.7     3.6
Other Exstitk S^ Loans            35.9    54.6    59.1    t1.2    59.5    55.7    33.5  51.7    49.8    47.9    45.9    43.9    41              39.4
ECF Fin. 80t. Loan - Tcnti         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    214       9.6    1.4    30.5    36.9    36.8    34.1    31.9    29.4
EIU Fin. Govt. Loan - tonki        0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      1.3     5.0      9.2    13.7    15.4    15.5    14.5    13.4    12.4
AD$ Ftn. Govt. Loa-Ram  Grid       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    20.7    20.8    25.0    25.0    24.2    22.5    20.0
Othe Onlent Official Loans         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    15.4    24.7    33.6   40.9    51.0    63.0    95.4   115.9   140.7   221.1
Coggercial Loaos                   0.0      0.0     0.       0.0     6.3    17.9    29.3    44.1    63.3        6.2   1012.7   114.9   132.4   146.4
fl1s) Current flaturitius         (2.0)   14.8)   (3,6)   43.9)   (4.0)   13.3)   (3.22   (3.91   (6.02  (21.6)  (10.2)  (22.4)  (27.0)  230,0)
TOTAL NRSIttt;S                   56.0    70.9    76,.0    76.7 9-.3   118.2   154.1   2J5.4   241.5   302.9   339.2   358.4   405.2   465,2
TOTAL CAPITAL                     116.5   148.8   162.6   172.4   204.6   239.9   289.7   355.4   426.4   403.5   535.9   577.9   651.5   740.2
kebt/ebt plus Equity              47.32   47.4    46.72   44.52   46.62   49.32   53.22   57.82   61.32   62.61   63.32   62.02   62.22   62.22
Equty/Debt plus Equity            52.72   52.42   53.32   55.5X   53.42   50.72   46.82   42.22   38.72   37.42   36.72   38.02   37.82   37.60 1



BWII Fiueacial Statmts                                                                             57*r-
(K mllims                                                                 it
Fiaaaciu  ra  Eud Sot. 31         Fe4 196                                     194     I"?7   191    1919    31"        31        99       9      9M
official                          -bQ                 njKt'
hSuwiq          A"egrpte
bbt           hrroeio9
UF     ~ ~ .wm.w                wmug
31.06
ECF Fisanced IurWNSt LOS
ieaag  luac.                                                         4O.0    0.0      2.4     9.6    19.4    30.5    19    JW           34.3   35.9
33.0             0.0      2.4      7.2     9.6    11.1      6.4      1.1
atvrt,tt Cepitaazei                                                   0.0     0.1      0.7     1.6      2.7     3.7        2     2        2 15    25
0.0     2.4      9.6    39.4    30.5    36.9    36.0    34.3    33.9    29.4
EFi wau   6S.raet Lam
win k .         .                                                 o0.0     0.0     1.3      5.0     9.2    13.7    5.4       5.5    U4.5    13.4
Zlitien5 16.0                                                         0.0      5.3     L.6      4.3     4.5      1.7     0.6
atnst  t itd                                                          0.0      0.1     0.       0.e s    .3       .6      37      1.6     L5       .4
0.0     1.3      5.0     9.2    13.7    13.4       1.5    14.1    13.4    1234
IID Fiaced  oversat Low
blac..  0. 0                                                               0     .0     0.0    10.7    20.e    21.0    25.0    24.2    22.S
164t.s.                                           25.0              0.0     00       0.0    10.7    0.3      4.2      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.O
Istrust i Espam                                                         e3 #             *                     t'5.3    2.0     2.7      2.L    224
ltrtCqitalid                                                  0.0      0.0     0.0      0.6     3.7      3.3                                .
CIaumgklu                                                             *0      0.O     0.0    t0o7    20.4  ZLO         25.0    24.2    2145    23-
Oth  bi-Lent ntrast. Ltocs
_   ... .   .   .............   _.
uaia      leoc.                                                       0.0    51.4    24.7    33.6    40.9    53.0    6.9    95.4   115.    10.7
Additions                                          2SO.4             13.4      9.4     6.9      7.2    10.1    13.3    3L        22.5    if. 2     w. 4
1965 lrn u                                                         0.6      1.7     1.7      1.7     1.7      1.7     1.6      1.1      1.4     1.2
36 or            -                                                         0.5      3.0      5.0     1.0      t.0     1.0      t.0     0,t      0.0
9"7 DrSn                                                                           0.5      5.0     5.0      5.0     3.0      1.0     0.9      0.O
3936or  u                                                                                     .4     0.6      0.6     0.6      0.3     0.$      0.1
5969 Drauis.                                                                                         0.6      5.3     1.1      1.5     3.3      M.
59,90 Dragiw                                                                                                  0.7     3.5      t.s     I s      -5
IW,9 prlvlr_                                                                                                          1.7      3.4     3.4      5..
1992 khm                                                                                                                       3.2     24       2.5
5993 ir _d=                                                                                                                            2.6      5.2
59'94 karism3.
4grnpte Istwret Eapuss                                                                          5.7     2.7     3.7      4.4     5.3      6.5     9.
A-    te Cat         Ist   t                                          0.6      2.2     3.2      2.4     2.3      2.6     4.3      ill     3.5    15.2
bort zatiosa
5995 or                                                                                                       0.5     5.0      3.0     5.0      3.0
1*   'Ir_                                                                                                             0.3      0.6     h.6      0.6
5967 llrA                                                                                                                      0.3     0.6      0.6
3966 Oradou                                                                                                                            0.2      0.1
5969 Irauda                                                                                                                                    0.3
"ireato 3tapys                                                      0,0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.8      0.5     1.3      5.9     2.5      3.1
closing  laltce                                                      15.4    24.7    33.6    40.9    53.0    63.6    95.4   51.59   .7   223.1
TOTAL OFFICIAL t30
5Plfiftq Balan                                                        0.0    35.4    26.4    48.2    60.3   335.9   41.3   372.7   11U.9   23.1
Adilatio-s                                         309.4             15.4    53.0    9.9    31.5    35.0    25.7    34.7    22.1    47.2    63.4
Interest EaPse                                                        0.0     0.0      0.0     1.7      2.7     4.9    12.9    13.6    34.3    37.0
Interest Cepatalized                                                  0.0     2.4      4.2     5.4      63 0 9.2         4.3     6.3      .1  i5 .2
bpa7asnt                                                              0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.5     3.5      6.3     7.6      6.2
Closing RaSance                                                      15.4    28.4    40.2    60.3   t5i.9   i41.1   172.7   13.9   22.5   26.7
:5-;;$wztS::X::S:::s:=2WB                                                rI 0         W " =C            O 8 " "            _     C



ELCOa Fiancial Statements
tOTAL CO4111RCitI LOANS
Opening Balance                                                               0.0      6.3      I7.9     29.3     44.1      63.3     96.2    101.7    114.q    132.4
Additions                                                390.6                6.3     11.6      11.4     14.8      19.9     24.9     19.5      19.3     26.4      26.7
Interest Erpense                                                             0.0       0.0      0.0       0.8      2.3       3.5      4.9      6.7       8.7      9.6
Interest Capitalized                                                         0.4       1.6      3.1       4.0      4.7       6.1      7.l       7.0      6.B      7.7
Repayent                                                                      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.5       2.0      3.9       6.1      9.0      12.7
Closing Balance                                                               6.3     17.9     29.3      44.1     63.3      86.2    101.7    114.9    132.4    146.4
"a5s=ssS5t==s:=555 rsDS 2;                            *s::t=s;ttsD= unwfl55=3Sta=t5ts:ttusttDDCtt:es entomflSltt=tss5aDs55S;:s;afl
18RD FIN. 501T. LOWN - YlK-
Opening Balace                                                                0.0      1.0       2.8     10.7      19.2     25.7     28.2      27.6     25.7    2M.8
Additions                                                 28.5                1.0      1.8       7.9      8.5       6.5      2.5      0.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Interest Expense                                                              0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       3.1      2.9      2.1       2.5
Interest Capitalized                                                          0.3      0.2      0.7 8      .6       2.5 3o0           0.0       0.0      0,        0.0
Reiayaet                                                                      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.9      1.9       3,0      3.9
Closing Balance                                                               1.0      2.8      10.7     !9.2      25.7     28.2      27.6     25.7     23.8      21.9
PREVIOUS  OL   A   tOANS
Opening Balance                                                              i9.4     18.2      17.0     15.7      14.3     12.8      11.2      9.5       7.7      5.7
Additions                                                  0.0
Interest Expense                                                              1.4      1.3       1.2      1.1       1.0      0.9      0.7       0.6      0.4       0.2
Interest Capitalized                                                          1.2      1.2      I.       1.4       1.5      1.6      t.7       1.8      2.0       2.1
Closing Balance                                                              18.2     17.0      15.7     14.3      12.8     11.2       1.5      7.7      5.7       3.6
US  U~~~                    .UU.t:UUU:U:UUUUUUUU..                      St    U        U...;.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~...l....
OTHER EKISTINO LOANS
Opening Balance                                                              61.2     58.5      55.7     53.5      51.7     49.8      47.9     45.9     43.8      4.?
Additions                                                  o.o
Interest Expense                                                              1.9      4.7       5.3      4.9       4.7      4.5      4.4       4.1      4.0       3.9
Interest Capitalized                                                         0.6       0.6
Repayment                                                                     2.7      2.8       2.2      1.8       1.9      1.9       2.0      2.1       2.1      2.1
tlosing Balance                                                              58.5     55.7      53.5     51.7      49.9     47.9      45.9     43.8     41.7      39.6
TOTAL EIISTINS LOANS
Opening Balance                                                              80.6     76.7      12.7     69.2     66.0      62.6     59.1      55.4     51.5      47.4
dditions                                                   0.0                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0 0.      0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       V.O
Interest Etpense                                                             4.9       6.1      6.4       6.1      5.8       5.5      5.3       4.8      4,6       4.3
Interest Capitalized                                                         0.6       0.6      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Repayment                                                                     3.9      4.0       3.5      3.2       3.4      3.5      3.7       3.9      4.1       4.2
Closing Balance                                                              76.7     72.7     69.2      66.0     62.6      59.1     55.4      51.b     47.4      43.2
TOTAL LOANS
Opening Balance                                                             80.6      99.3    121.7    35.       293        6.      314.5    357.4    381.0    432.1
Additions                                                518.6               22.6     26.4      39.t     55.2     62.2      53.0     54.5      41.8     73.7      90.2
Interest Expense                                                              4.9      6.1       6.4      9.6      10.8     13.8     26.1      29.0     30.3      33 4
Interest Capitalized                                                          1.9      4.8       8.0     33.0     15.2      38.3      11.3     13.)     15.2      18.8
Repayent                                                                      3.9      4.0       3.5      3.2       3.S      6 0      33.6     18.2     22.6      27.0
Closing Balance                                                              99.3    121.7    157.3    209.3    267.6    314.5    357.4    381.0    432.1    495.2
Capitalized Interest
Opening Balance                                                               0.5      3.7       2.1      7.6      13.0     15.5      6.B      10.0     12.7       8.9
Additions                                                                     1.9      4.8       8.0     11.0      15.2      M9.3     13.3     13.1      15.2     t8.l
Capitalizations                                                               0.7      4.3       2.5      5.6      12.7     27.0      8il      10.4      39.0     13.1
Closing Balance                                                               1.7      2.1       7.6     13.0      15.5      6.8      10.0     12.7      8.9      14.7
::::::::::::::::::::::::::     :2::::  3==:::=:::=5==:::s==s=:::::::s3::K::=:X=:w:::::::gs==:ss::=e:::=a:So5



ELCOII Financial btategents                                                                             17-wpr-t
18M  Loan Prawters                                                          Paofg21
Financial Year Ended kec. 31       US$                K                 298      1986    1917     198i     1989     190      1991     M        1S93    1994
A4gregate         Aggregate          -----------------------------------rolections---------------------------------
btaki Hydroelectric Proj. Cost      99.6              99.6               3.2      7.5    22.2    25.5    25.2    13.7          2.4      0.0      0.0     0.0
Percentage of Duties and taxes                                           2.03     2.0?     1.01     1.01  I..O        1.01     1.0?
(less) Taxes and Duties              1.0               1.0                .0      0.1      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.1      .0
- ------------------                         ----- --------- --- -- ---------             -   ---------- - -- -----  ---
Met Project Cost                     96.1             96.1               3.i      7.4    22.0    25.2    24,9    13.5          2.4      0.0      0.0     0.0
ProjIet Cost - Foreign CoDP.        51.3              $1.3               2.6      3.1     11.8    14.2    13.3        6.2      1.3      0.0      0.0      0.0
18RD Financed Expenditvres          28.5              28.5               1.0      1.8      7.9      9.5      6.5      2.5      0.3      0.0      0.0      0.0
Rate
e      inb Balante                                          - :=         0.0      1.0      2.8    10.7    19.2    25.7    28.2    27.6    25.7    23.8
eiDitirized Interest          5.1               5.1    21.00      0.1      0.2      0.7      1.6      2.5      3.0
Interest Expense                 -      =-4.0                                                                                 3.1      2.9      2.7      2.5
beortuztion                          4.0                                                                                       0.9      1.9      2.P      1.9
Closing Balance                                                          1.0      2.8     10.7    29.2    25.7    28.2    21.6    25.7    23.8    21.9
PREVIOUS WIILD         LOWNS
Opening Balance                                                         29.4    18.2    16.9    15.5    14.0    12.4    10.7            8.9      6.S      4.C
Additions
Interest Etpense                                                         1.4      1.3      1.2      1.1      1.0      0.9      0.7      0.6      0.4     0.2
laterest Capitalized
neretizat izn     e                                                      1.2      1.3      1.4      1.5      1.6      2.7      1.8      2.0      2.1     2S2
Closing Balance                                                         28.2     I6.9    15.5    14.0    12.4    10.7          8.9      6.9      4.8      2.5
AREBATE WORLD Om  Lo0w
opening Balnce                                                          19.4    19.2      19.7    26.2    33.2    38.1    38.9    36.5    32.6    28.6
Additions                                                                 1.0      1.8     7.9      8.5      6.5      2.5      0.3      0.0      0.0      0.0
Interest Expense                                                         1.4      t.3      1.2      t.2      1.0      0.9      3.9      3.5     3.1      2.7
tbterest Capitalized                                                     0.2      0.2      0.7      2.6      2.5      3.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Amrtization                                                              1.2      1.3      1.4      1.5      1.6      1.7      2.7      3.9      4.0      4.2
Closing Balance                                                         29.2    19.7    26.2    33.2    38.1         38.9    36.5    32.6    28.6    24.4
2S2222s2==eett2==G==2                                              ;3;t2,32c22222==es222222 22222  2222Ztt2222222222222C22222feSellsG2sss2e s2n:ee===es=et=2



ELCQI Financial Stateunts                                                                               17-pr86
Cam w cial Borraeioes                                                        P.e"  14
(K Hillionl                                                               of 21
1iaacial ,3e i  Ended Dec. 31                        P99                1985     19"6     1987     1988     1999    190       I99      192      393     1994
Bank            ----------------- --- ----- ---------- -Projectioos-- - -------      -- - --- ----------
Cunrctal togns                                       13.002
3peniioe 8l6nce                                                          0.0      6.3    17.9    29.3    44.1    63.3    86.2   101,7    114.9   132.4
editions                                                                 6.3    11.6    11.4    14.9    19.8    24.9    !; 5           1973    26.4    26.7
Internti
19 S85raw                                                             0.4      048      0.8      0.8      0.7      0.6      0.5     0.3      0.2      0.1
I396  radn                                                                     0.8      1.5      1.5      .5       1.4      1.1     0.9      0.6      0.4
17  rnda                                                                                0.7      1.5      1.5       5       1.4     1.1      09       0.6
199 kraudm                                                                                       1.0      1.9      1.9      1.9     1.8      1.4      3.1
9899 kDu_                                                                                                 1.3     2.6      2 .      2.6      2.4    I.
190O Dr_nGa                                                                                                        1.6      3.2     3.2      3.2      2 3.
1991 braujm                                                                                                                ii       2.5      2.       2.5
I992 Draum                                                                                                                          1.3      2.5      2 5
IS3 Dr _da                                                                                                                                   1.7      3.4
199  Iraujmi                                                                                                                                          1.7
A4rqeate Interest Expense                                                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.8      2.3      3.5      4.9     6.7      8.7      9.6
Wregte Capitalized Interest                                              0.4      1.6      3.1      4.0      4.7      6.3      7.1      7.0     6.       77
hArbt2atien:
O5 krow                                                                                                   0.5      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.09     1.0
1996 kDrm                                                                                                          3.0     1.9      1.9      3.9      3.9
1S87 Dr _dm                                                                                                                0.9      1.9      l.9      1.9
1999 Dr_nue                                                                                                                         1.2      2.5      2.5
3999 Dra_m                                                                                                                                   1.7      3.3
1990 Dr_nae                                                                                                                                           2.1
eAr**e Ibpaymt                                                         0.0      0.0      *.o      0.0      0.5      2.0      3.9      6.1      7.O    12.7
Cl sino hIbance                                                          6.3    17.9    29.3    44.1    63.3    36.2   101.7    1               34.9   132.4   146.4



EILC   Fi encidl Stateents*
Sal" td   i       ti                                                               P413
FVamectal Year Etaed  ec. 31                                                  In5        9--      937      399       1969     19        19W       1992     1993       99
low     d                                                                                                                                                    i
Domestic                                                                     35        36       44        47       51        54       59        43        67        71
Com cial                                                                      5       1          9                11        1a        15       14        12       1i
Public LiktMic                                                                I                   1                  I        I         I         I ItI
Intril                                                                       25       27        21        31       35        39       47        51        54       63
Salas - 6     ri d W56                                                                   172                 1        2         4        261  2U            306       332
Domstic                                                                      92        95       9        133      106       It         U 113             122       I2V
Comecial                                                                   1I0        192      201       220      232       245       260      273      237       30
Public Lit ting                                                               I         2        2         2        2         2         2        2         2        2
Indestrie                                                                    27       31        39        43       49        51       5S        0         63        9
SWls - Dther kDwd Ceters                                                       301       319      347       37        33       43        429      452       414       49
Dometic                                                                     127      334       143       IO       is        1 364     172      140      1t         9
Commercial                                                                  27       293       324       347      369       M9        414      441       409      49
Public Li?htae.                                                               2         2        2         2        2         2         3        3         3         :3
Indutrial                                                                    53       so        47        74       94         0       101      I31       it9      132
TOTAL DESM                                                                     45        "9       539       573        t1      649       6e       73        77t       331
flat: Amilary Ewevaptirn                                                         9        10        11       12        13       14        14        15       14        l3
TOTAL SALES                                                                    4         501      550       S15      6           2       705      749       7         I4"
6EIERTI  By SD
gm Srid
H6r1                                                                        175      1t9       206       219      237       276       29e      32        349       33
Dies   - Lift Oil                                                             4         9       15   .t            20         2         2        2         2         2
Dietl -  "     oil                                                            0         0        0         0        0         0        0                  0       .0
ils laurhim                                                                   0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
lam  Brad Smearatam                                                            379       I"       220       23        27       278       309      324       351       332
0tbvr bhed Ceters
i"' Li 8ii                                                                  236   22   237   20   253    W    2N 3                              S 2 
ge1  - ight oil                                                              43       45         S 1      56      5Is 9                 44                         11
i l -  eivy ol                                                               II       40        43        S         0        le       93         4       13          4
3m  iarhime                                                                        3        3              3                  I          I                   
tbr Ocls 6emetratiom                                                           211       330       339       5 5      M0       400       422       44      4tl        49
Elcee Total bmeratia
433      411       443      459       490       533      56l        91i2t3
ilmi - Lio   Oil                                                             46        54       65        74       75        61        66       71        76       to
miea  -  eatvy oi1                                                          11        40       43        1         3         3       9        *06        19
Des terSime                                                                   3         3        3         3                 W          3         3 U  H
amCC's free  Somatile                                                          473       So7      St9       595       63       i77       M2        769       a         76
TOTAL      ITIU                                                                51        56       414       653       69       7         7        SP        I"          9
Ilmes) AIliery Cmm tie                                                           9        to       1         12        13       14        14 1m                        le S
et Saeratim 530                                                                                    S3      641      4i3       726       m        32        341      q9
ercentage Lesse                                                                 lot       102                  1        PI l    lo 1tt            In       1lt       232
llssl 163 Lese                                                                  54       59        64         3       n         77        2        a                 t 1
UEElIIDAT   69611  FOR 31.1                                                    45        4        539       5n        611      64        69       M3        M7        3
PINu  Axiliary Comsutim                                                          9        30        11       12        13       34        34        is       1         t3
6EIEI*II1II SOIII                                                              4         303     5W         50         24      662       7M       74-       79        I"



MMW  FauuaKial Stetumsa                                                                             17*61
Ir     Ca"  Fla                                                    Php 16
FiuidI VW bjW bc. 31                                                 la   to   1w   t                          _    -    -    I-   _
Local C;t lcailti  F ct.                                            0.    1.00    1.10    1.1W    1.721    1             411 1   .516   0.5    1.11
UlIUIUTIS
Prowl. VW 's ovma                                                 13.      14.4    14.9      w.)    I.l      1.      11I      16L2    10,9    19.6
AUdlsstrEtim - 1964 Prices                                           1.34   15.4    17.        19.1    24    27-9LI    31 t1                        4
AINIIoctS!TUT  RUsM                                  06.6                    9.2    10.2    11.       12.8    16.3    15.3    11.2       1,6
WITILIZ   OES  8                                   42              5.7     6.2      6.9     7.7      36      9.6    W0.       11.     12.5I 
TIUIIIUF
I"ml  -  huet  Ip1.9                                                         0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0
Usc. Tv. - Careot Vd.                                              1.9      0.2     0.2      0.2      .3      0.3     2.9      3.0     3.2      L3
Tramtog ucKt. jC Past ProF.                                           0.0     1.9      4.6     5.6      Ls      L.       0.0     0.4      0.0     0.0
TITA 1141164 EIE                                                     l.9     2.1      5.4     56       Lt      32       29      L0       3.2      L3
- --------- 
Pr. Vw.s estrib. E.                                                2.2     2.2      2.4      2.5     2.7      2.6     2.9      3.1     3.2      3.4                                                   :
Ell"Ctod Bro      is Sistri 2. a                                              2       5a      53      5n       a3               n                 a 5
6istrih. Esp. - 1994 Prics                                            2.2     2.4      2.5     2.7      2.3     2.9      3.1      3.2     3.4      3.6
1OT4I 3I51I6UTIC4 E1S                                                2.2     2.5      2.0     3.2      3.6     4.0      4.5     4.9      5,4       .9
MTl SSION
Luith of Lira I1                                                   me      633      is3      673     In       u      14o       HIM    i40      10o4
iloaml Lira f1.1                                                    25      20       20       65     142      14        0       0        A      420
Total lrmuissi  Lira AM.)                                             63      65       473     736      4       O        0 n8            154    1474
Trns.  ost - 19S   n. fIUtcl                                         1547    147      547    1547    1547    1547    1547    1547    1517    1547
Trus. Cst - 1914 Prices                                               1.0     1.0      1.0              1.4     1..      1.6      1.6     1,6      2.3
.. , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - ..- -  ...- ,--,-
T0TAL TUI03SSIU EIfEI                                                 1.0     1.0 o            L. I      .7     2.2      2.4     2.5      2.4      3.6
IyIqXro pesbEa   - 9I64 Prices                                       0.6     0.6      0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4      0.4     *.4      0,4      6.4
NW* E         Iwa/Ai                                                  0.6     0.7      0.5     65       0.5     .3       0.        .6     0.6 
Hydro Oseeratimn 00t)                                                 411     414       4       45      40       53      56       I       62       7*
T04TA WMD ENIE                                                       2.6     2.7      2.1     2.3      2.7     2.7      3.o      3.S     3*6     4.6
POUER   -E                                                       
1994 Purchase Price (111611                      ~~~~    ~~~~6.2  6.2  6.2  6.2     6.2      6.2     6.2      6.2     6 2      6.2
,emt of P----a- --- -                                                6      53      t55       U       6i0 sU          65        46      *0Q 7(3
Purchased Poser - 1904 Prices                                         3.0     3.3      3.4     3.6      3.7     L.       4.0     4.2      4.4     4.5
ER PU iNgM                                                            3.0     3.4      3.6     4.2      4.7     5.3       Li     6.4    6.9       ?.5
=r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- -ww ----_-'



ELIiI Finascial Statents                                                                                17-r6
EIW TMERNAL 6EEATION
FIEL COTtUT                                                                                            
TFerml Useratite rs                                                   2.7      3.3      3.5      3.5      3.4      3.S      3.7     3.8      3.9      3.3
Ftel Comsaaqties (lis.Il                                                22.6    29.0      32.8    30.3    43.7    37.7    43.4    47.2    51.2    20.0
sveraae 1994 Fwel Price it/Il                                          29.9    29.9    28.9    29.9    28.9    29.9    28.9    29.9    29.9    29.9
feel Cot - 19  Prices                                                    6.5      8.4      9.5    11.       12.6    10.9    t2.5    13.7    14.9         9.3
____________________                                          -_--_~ __                                                                        -------r
TOTAL FLUE COST                                                          6.5      0.6     10.4    13.1    16.1    14.9    19.2    20.7    23.5    13.0
a3=33sOflOfl:0SZb0000000U0                                          o:o.:O=3e333 333-=3 -3:3=33O3C333o #33 3Cb       s33O es-33O 333lCOs73=l3fraS 33s3Sf
OPER. I NAINT. COSTS
TrmlSenuatmn                                                       60       97      116      136      146     144      162      178      I98       96
0.  N.- 1994 Price  TM)                                               4.8      4.0      3.9      3.9      3.9      3.2     3.2      3.2      3-2      3.2
e. tI. b5t  - 19P4 rices                                                 2.9      4.7      4.5     5.3      5.7      4.6      5.2      5.7      6.3      3.1
U'ERATIGK III HAITE1WE                                                   2.9      4.0      5.0      6.2      7.2      6.3      7.5     9.6   t10.        5.1
TOTAL rEISl EIIAhE                                                      12.4    16.t    IS.2    23.5    29.0    26.5    31.5    35.J    40.4    26,4
000000200020220020t*00000                                           =33 0n0000000 0=_=3aa=a3=3   3=aaG3 00=g=3= 2a oc,o02000l3lf0002033aa0:30000



ELCOII Fisac     Stateetet s7P9 -BB
Taes and Qividends                                                              Page I/
lK rhilion)                                                                    o4 21
Financial Year Ended Dec. 3'                                                 IS9S     196       987       K       199      1990      1991     1992     1993      ISS4
..... - _--------------- --- Projections----~~---~~~~~~
SURPLUS BEFORE 1TA1   DIVIWDE                                                23.1     19.4      19.9     17.9      19.4     19.4     22.5      34.1     40,6      57.0
lim) Additional Deductions
Traininn                                                                   1.9      2.1      5.0       5.8      3.9       3.2      2.9       3.0      3.2       3.3
Cavitalizeo Interest                                                       l.9      4.9      8.0      11.0      15.2     19.3     11.3      13.1     15.2      18.8
Other DWeuctioni                                                           1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
Total Deductions                                                          4.9       7.9     14.0      17.9     20.1      22.5     15.2      17.1     19.4     23.2
TAIADLE INWlE                                                                19.3     11.5       4.9       .0      (1.71    13.1)     7.2      17.0     21.2      33.9
:CPS :CD:::: :: :::::                                           : 53::: a:::::::::: ~S5 U :   C::::::::::5CW: :s23Sn33Sg-2CS:fUSt3CSS5SS:C::C4P
Percentage of Incoen tax                                                       351      35t       351      35        35       352       352      351      35l       351
==2=  AX :PAYABLE                                                             6.4      4.0       1.7       .0      0.0       0.0      2.5       5.9      7.4 :1.2
NET SURPEUS AFTER tA1                                                        16.7     15.4      17.1     17.9      18.4     19.4     19.9      28.2     33.2      45.1
Percent,-e of Dividend                                                         192      197       192      19       19S      192       192      191       19m      197
DIVIDEND PAYABLE                                                              3.2      2.9       3.3      3.4       3.5      3.7       3.8      5.4      6.3       9.6
NET SURPLUS                                                                  13.5     12.5      13.9     14.4      14.9     15.7      16.1     22.0      26.9     36.6
:::=:::::::: ::=::::: =:::::2:::::= =:::::=2:::::::=::::w:::::::::::::::::S-CC2:::C2::::::=::::::::::=



ELCON Fincial Stateuts                                                                              (7-Apr-66
Reivables and Payables                                                      P"9 18
(K Billien)                                                            of 21
Fiancial Year Ended  ec. 31                                          I9S5    1966    1967    19B6    19M9    190    I991         92      IW3-   1994
-         ------------------- o e       Ktin s-     ---------              ------
WCCWTS iECEIvElt
S les to Piblit Scter                                                12.8    13.7    15.1    17.0    18.8    20.4    25.0    29.3    33.4    35.6
Papent Cycl (Days)                                                      S5      80      60       80      80       80      60       90       B0      B0
Public Sector beeivables                                              3.0      3.0     3.3      3.7     4.1      4.5     5.5      6.4      7.3     7.8
Sales to Private Sectr                                               51.0    55.0    60.3    67.     75.4    81.6   100.1   117.2   133.6   142.5
Puynt Cycle lbys)                                                      44       38     3D        38      38       3       38 39             38      38
Private Sector Recuivables                                            6.2      5.7     6.3      7.1     7.9      d.5    (0,4    12.2    13,9 S     4.8
T181L ACCWJllS IlECEIvIDI                                             9.1      6.7     9.6    10.8    12.0    13.0    15.9    19.6    21.2    22.7
LMALII CUISmEml  COSi                                                19.    29.6    25.2    33.9    37.6    32.0    34.4    27.0    44.4    55.6
bier of boths                                                         1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5      2.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.54    1.5
COllSTltDtT1011 PAYIDES                                               2.4      2.5      3.1     4.2      4.7     4.0      4.3     3.4      5.6     6.9
INTEREST MAYABLE                                                      6.6    10.9    14.4    19.6    26.0    32.2    37.5    41.1    45.5    52.3
libr *  Booths                                                         3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
D17EREST PAYABLE                                                      1.7      2.7     3.6      4.9     6.5      9.0      9.4    10.3    11.4    13.1
COSTS OF OPITIM
Diesel eneratiom                                                     12.4    16.9    1S.2    23.5    28.0    26.5    31.5    35.7    40.4    26.4
N(in3   eration                                                       2.6      2.7      2.1     2.3      2.7     2.7      3.0     3.3      3.6     4 e
Ttansdissinn                                                          1.0      1.0      1.1     1.3      17      2.2      2.4     2.5      2.6     3.8
Distribution                                                          2.2      2.5     2.9      3.2      3.6     4,0      4.5     4.9      5.4     5.9
Aduinistration                                                        9.6      9.2    10.2    11.4    12.9    14.3    15.8    17.2    18.6    20.3
Trainiag                                                              2.9      2.1     5.0      5.8      3.9     3.2      2.9     3.0      3.2     3.3
TOTAL COSTS OF OPERATIAB                                             29.6    34.4    40.5    47.7    52.6    53.0    60.0    66.6    73.9    64.4
beor of baths                                                         1.5      1.5 3    .5      1.5      1.5    (53       1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5
090*l1l6 PAYMLES                                                 3.6      4.3      5.1     b,0      6.6     6.6      7.5     S.3      9.2      0.1
TOTAL PIOJECTED PAVALES                                               7.7      9.5   1.8    15.1    17.9    19.7    21.2    22.0    2b.2    20.1
PYTArIIET OF AClEE  IIT.                                             6.0      6.7      8.2    10.2    11.3    10.6    11.3    11.7    14.8    15.0
MAL*2. CMII EPE S                                                    35.9    43.3    50.3       8.6   65.3      6.6    76.7    64.7    S6.3    1.0
ACCUUTS PAYABLE TIIO                                                   2.0     1.9      2.0     2.1      ;.1     (.9      1.3      1.7     1.8      2.0
535DD   555D=W                                          5 =5="                  X    $    S     W    W B 5 5 5 5 g 5



- 102 -                    Aanex 23
Assumptions for Financial Projections
Income Statement
(1)   Total Generation -- is derived in the table entitled
'Sales and Generation" (page 15).
(2)   Losses -- is derived in the table entitled "Sales and
Generation' (page 15).
(3)   Power Sold -- is derlved in the table entitled 'Sales
and Generation" (page 15).
(4)   Average Revenue -- is derived in the table entitled
'Derivation of Average Tariff" (page 6).
(5)   Thermal Generation Expense -- is derived in the table
entitled "Direct Cash Flow' (page 16).
(6)   Hydro Generation Expense -- is derived in the table
entitled "Direct Cash Flow" (page 16).
(7)   Transmission Expense -- is derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow (page 16).
(8)   Distribution Expense -- is derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow (page 16).
(9)   Administration Expense -- is derived in the table
entitled "Direct Cash Flow" (page 16).
(10)  Training Expense -- is derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow (page 16).
(11)  Depreciation -- is derived in the table entitled "Fixed
Asset Formation (page 9).
(12)  Non-operating Income -- is assumed to increase from 1914
levels by 10% each year.
(13)  Total Interest Payments -- is the sum of interest
capitalized and interest charges to operations.
(14)  Interest Capitalized -- is derived in the schedule
entitled "Borrowings Statement" (page 12).
(15)  Interest Charged to Operations -- is derived in the
schedule entitled "Rorrowings Statement" (page 12).
(16)  Income Tax -- is derived in the schedule entitled "Taxes
and Dividends" (page 17).



- 1o3 -                  Auun= 23
(17)  Dividend -- is derived in the schedule entitled 'Taxes
and Dividends" (page 17).
Flow of Funds
(18)  Net Working Capital Increases -- excludes Cash and
Liquidity Borrowings.
(19)  Principal Repayments -- is derived in the table entitled
"Borrowings Statement (page 12).
(20)  Yonki Hydroelectric Project -- is derived in the table
entitled "Capitalization Values` (page 8).
(21)  Other Projects -- is derived in the table entitled
"Capitalization Values" (page 8).
(22)  Capitalized Interest -- is derived in the table entitled
'Borrowings Statement (page 12).
(23)  Onlent Woxld Bank funds -- is derived in the table
entitled "IBRD" (page 13).
(24)  OECF of Japan -- is derived in the table entitled
"Borrowings Statement" (page 12).
(25)  European Investment Bank -- is derived in the table
entitled "Borrowings Statement" (page 12).
(26)  Asian Development Bank -- is derived in the table
entitled "Borrowings Statement" (page 12).
(27)  Other Onlent International Loans -- is derived in the
table entitled "Borrowings Statement" (page 12).
(28)  Commercial Loans -- are derived in the table entitled
"Comme-cial Borrowings" (page 14).
Balance Sheet
(29)  Gross Fixed Assets in Operation -- is derived in the
table entitled "Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(30)  Accumulated Depreciation -- is derived in the table
entitled "Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(31)  Net Fixed Assets on Operation -- is derived in the table
entitled "Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(32)  Work -in Progress -- is derived in the table-entitled
"Fixed Assets Formation" (page 9).
(33)  Inventory -- is projected to increase in relation to
inflation.



- 04 -                   A,nnex 23
(34)  Accounts Receivable -- is derived in the table entitled
'Receivables and Payables" (page 18).
(35) Current Assets -- is projected to increase in relation
to inflation.
(36)  Revaluation Reserve -- is derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 9).
(37)  Lijuidity Borrowings -- are those amounts necessary to
enable ELCOM to maintain cash at a minimum of K 0.2
million.
(33) Accounts Payable -- is derived in the schedule entitled
fReceivables and Payables" (page 18).
(39)  Other Current Liabilities -- is expected to increase
with inflation.



- 105 -
ANNEX 24
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Least-Cost AnalZsis
Alternatives
1.        The least-cost analysis was made on a program basis using the
discounted cash flow technique.  The following three alternatives, each of
which would satisfy the projected demand up to 1995, were compared:
Commissioning
Year        Alternative A          Alternative B  Alternative C  Alternative D
1990        Yonki Hydroelectric   Lae heavy oil  Lae heavy oil  Lae heavy oil
(Yonki Dam and addi-  diesel          diesel          diesel
tional 2 x 1S MW in   (2 x 7.5 MW)   (2 x 7.5 MW)   (2 x 7.5 MW)
Ramu I)
1991                               Lae heavy oil  Lae heavy oil  Lae heavy oil
diesel         diesel          diesel
(1 x 7.5 MW)   (1 x 7.5 KW)   (1 x 7.5 MW)
1992                               Lae heavy oil  Lae heavy oil  Lae heavy oil
diesel         diesel          diesel
(l x 7.5 MW)   (1 X 7.5 MW)   (1 x 7.S MW)
1994                               Lae heavy oil  Ramu 2A          BariKewa
(2 x 7.5 MW)   (50 MW)         (1 x 25 MW)
1995                               Lae heavy oil
(1 x 7.5 MW)
2.        The Yonki Hydroelectric Project would contribute additionally two
units of 15 MW to the existing Ramu I Station and accordingly add 292 GWh of
firm energy per year and 174 GWh of average energy output to Ramu I.
Alternative A with Yonki hydro project is the basic alternative. Alternative
B is a heavy oil diesel alternative. Alternative C is a mixed hydro and
thermal alternative, involving thermal stations using heavy oil and run of the
river hydro electric station of Ramu 2 A. Alternative D is a thermal
alternative comprising gas turbines fired from the adjacent BariKewa gas
fields and heavy oil stations.



- 106 -
ANNEX 24
Page 2
Associated transmission facilities were taken into consideration in
the comparison. The Yonki reservoir will also provide downstream benefits to
the future development s qges of the Ramu River but they are not included here
for economic evaluation.-
Capital Cost
4.        All costs were based on end-1985 price level.  Taxes and duties were
excluded. Foreign exch.nge costs were not shadow priced, due to recent
devaluation of Kina.
5.        The capital cost estimated for various projects without shadow
pricing is as follows:
Plant and associated
transmission facilities          Cost/KW
C K million)                  (US$)
Tonki Dam and
Ramu 1 additions (+ 30 MW)              56.9                    1,897.0
Rarmu 2 A (without Yonki
Dam-50 MW                               69.1                    1,382.0
Lae Diesel-heavy oil
(  x 7.5 KW)                            8.8                       587.0
(1 x 7.5 MW)                            3.5                       467.0
BariKewa Gas Turbine and
Cas Development     -
(1 x 25 MW)                             59.1                    2,364.0
Operation and Maintenance Costs
6.        Estimated 0 & M costs for the different types of plant are as
follows:
1/   SMEC has also made a long-term least cost development study including
generation expansion program up to the year 2015.  This program,
involving the complete development ci the Ramu River below Yonki
reservoir, confirms the relative benefit of Yonki hydroelectric project
as demonstrated in this Annex.



- 107 -
ANNEX 24
Page 3
O&M cost            Fixed
variable         (W'000Iyear)
(tlKuh)
Yonki Dam and Rawm 1                 -                              673
additions (t 30 MV)
Ramu 2A (without Yonki Dam' 50 MW)            -                     620
Lai Diesel - Heavy Oil
(2 x 7.5 MW)                               0.6                    380
Bari Kewa Gas Turbine
(1 x 25 MW)                                1.0                    518
Fuel Costs
7.        Fuel costs expressed in constant 1983 dollar and are based on recent
Bank's projection of future fuel prices.
Fuel cost
Plant                              (t/Kwh)
1. Existing Thermal
Lae and Madong Diesels            4.00
2. Future Thermal
Lae Diesels - Heavy Oil           3.20
Bsra Kewa Gas                     0.00
8.        The fuel consumption of alternative programs was calculated by
energy balance study on a system basis, taking into consideration the
scheduling of energy generatton according to merit order operation so as to
minimize fuel costs and fuel savings to the system.
Result of Analysis
9.        The total present worth of three alternatives at different discount
rates is as follows:



- 108 -
ANNEX 24
Page 4
Discount Rate (Z)
10      12       14      16      18       20
Alternative A
Capital cost                44.23   42.25   40.40   38.68    37.09  35.60
O&M cost                     15.88   13.58   11.91   10.64      9.65   8.86
Fuel cost                     1.84    1.77    1.70    1.64       1.58   1.53
Total                    61.95   57.60   54.01   50.96    48.32  45.99
Alternative B
Capital cost                21.07   17.86   15.43   13.52    11.99  10.73
O&W cost                    28.17   22.85   19.10   16.35    14.27  12.64
Fuel cost                   31.72   24.18   18.98   15.26    12.51  10.43
Total                    80.96   64.89   53.51   45.13    38.77  33.80
Alternative C
Capital cost                48.22   42.25   37.28   33.08    29.48  26.38
O&M cost                    24.61   20.28   17.20   14.81    13.15  11.77
Fuel cost                    6.83    6.17    5.60    5.11       4.67   4.28
Total                    79.66   68.70   60.08   53.10    47.30  42.43
Alternative D
Capital cost                45.59   40.24   35.80   32.06    28.84  26.06
0&H cost                    28.64   23.20   19.35   16.54    14.41  12.76
Fuel cost                    7.85    7.04    6.34    5.74       5.21   4.74
Total                    82.08   70.48   61.49   54.34    48.46  43.56
10.       The equalizir.g discount rate between Alternative A and Alternative B
is 13.9% while the equalizing discount rate between Alternative A and
Alternative C is 17.42, and between A and D is 18.12. Alternative A with
Yonki hydro project would then be the least cost solution when the opportunity
cost of capital in real terms is less than 13.92.
Sensitivity Tests
11.       Sensitivity tests between Alternative A and Alternative B for
variations in capital cost for dam construction, fuel cost and different load
growth were made with the results shown below:



- t9 -                   ANNEX 24
Page 5
Equalizing
No increase in capital cost for dam                           discount rate
Load growth as ELCOM forecast
0O  escalation in fuel cost                                  13,9
3Z escalation in fuel cost                                   15.2
Lower load (-101)
0  escalation in fuel cost                                  13.8
3X escalation in fuel cost                                   15*1
301 increase in capital cost for dam
Load growth as ELCOM forecast
O  escalation in fuel cost                                  12.3
3Z escalation in fuel cost                                   13.5
Lower Load (-1O)
01 escalation in fuel cost                                   12.1
31 escalation in fuel cost                                   13.3
12.       The economics of the Yonki Hydroelectric Project has been examined
in light of the recent and projected drop in oil prices. As another sensi-
tivity test for variations in real oil prices between US$12 a barrel and US$20
a barrel (zero escalation), the equalizing discount rate between Alternative A
and Alternative B varies between 11.91 and 14Z. Thus the Project meets the
Bank's economic criteria.



- 110 -
ANE  25
Page 1
PAPUA NEV GUINEA
ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
General
1.        The internal economic rate of return (IERE) was calculated by
equalizing the present value of the economic cost and benefits attributable to
the project. The analysis was made on an incremental basis using 1985 as the
base year.
Costs
2.        Capital Costs.  The costs are net of taxes and duties and include
the full costs of the generation and associated transmission costs, Annual
disbursements are given below:
Generation and
transmission costs
Year                             (K million)
1985                                  3.2
1986                                  8.7
1987                                 18.4
1988                                 21.0
1989                                 23.0
1990                                  6.4
1991                                  2.0
Total                            82.7
O&K
3.        Estimated OM cost was given in Annex 24.  Other system operating
costs were estimated at 2.5 t/kWh based on 1984 operation analysis of which
0.6 t/kWh represents the capital recovery cost of the distribution system
investment.



- i11 -                          ANNEX 25
Page 2
Benefits
4.        The incremental sale attributable to the project is the energy
generation by the project af-ter a4justing for generation and transmission and
distribution system losses (about 12Z). Revenues from the sales of electri-
city at the retail level were used as a measure of the economic benefits. The
average tariff of 13.7 t/kWh used was based on the actual tariff levels in the
1985.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.        The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the project is the
discount rate which equalizes the present values of the economic costs and
benefits. The IERR thus calculated is 16.5Z. Detailed calculation is given
in Table 1.



- 112 -                         ANNEX 25
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Electricity Commission
Internal Economic Rate of Return
Capital  0&N   Other-system /a  Generation  Sales at  /b          /c
cost    cost  operating costs   at plant   retail level  Revenue
(K million) -                          -- (GWh) ------  -  (K mlm)
1985          3.2    -            -
1986          8.7    -            -               -            -           -
1987         18.4    -            -               -            -           _
1988         21.0    -            -               -            -           -
1989         23.0    -              
1990          6.4   3.5          2.5           110.0         96.8        13.3
1991          2.0   3.5          3.8           140.0        123.2        16.9
1992           -    6.7          5.6           200.0        176.0        24.1
1993           -    6.7          5.6           240.0        211.2        28.9
1994           -    6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
1995           -    6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
1996           -    6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
1997-2014        -    6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2015          1.5   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2016          3.5   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2017          2.0   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2018          4.0   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2019          5.5   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2020          7.0   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2021          8.5   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2022-2039        -    6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
2040        -16.6   6.7          7.3           292.0        257.0        35.2
Internal economic rate of return - 16.5%
/a Other system operating costs are estimated at 2.5 t/kWh.
lb System losses are calculated at 12%.
/c Average tariff at the retail level of 1985 was calculated at 13.7 t/kWh.



- 113 -                           ANNEX 26
Page 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ELECTRICY COMMISSION
YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Availablejin the Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Adl  Papua New Guinea:  Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, Report
of the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program.
Report No. 3882-PNG, June 1982.
A.2 Papaa New Guinea: Energy Sector Institutional Review: Proposed for
strengthening the Department of Minerals and Energy. Report of the
joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistant Program.
Report No. 023/8t, October 1984.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relatd to the Subsector
B.1 Papua New Guinea: Power Tariff Study. Report of the joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistanct Program. Report
No. 024/84, October 1984.
B.2 Electricity Commission's Ten Year Plan (1985-1994), ELCOM, October
1984.
B.3  Electricity Commission's 21st Annual Report, ELCOM, December 1983.
B.4 Electricity Commission's 22nd Annual Report, ELCOM, December 1984.
C.   Selected Reports and Studies Relatd to the Project
C.1  Feasibility Report for Yonki Dam Project, SMEC, July 1985
Volume 1    Executive Summary
Volume 2    Engineering and Economics
Volume 3A   Geotechnical Investigations Report and Drawings
Volume 3B   Ceotechnical Investigation Appendix A
Volume 3C   Geotechnical Investigation Appendixes B to N
Volume 4    HydrolQgy
C.2 Ramu System Hydro Investigation Study. Investigation of Hydro Power
Alternatives.  Gib Australia, Merz and McLellan and Partners,
Willing and Partners PTY LTD, July 1983.
Volume 1   Main Report
Volume 2    Drawings
Volume 3    Cost Estimates



-114-                           ANNEX 26
Page 2
C.3 Port Moresby and Ramu Systems Development Plans. Gibb Australia,
Mera and McLellan and Partners, Willing and Parnters PTY LTD, June
1984.
Volume I    Main Report
Volume 2    Appendices and Drawings
C.4 Yonki Dam Project Enviornmental Assessment: Physical Environment,
Cameron Wclamara Kramer, May 1985.
C.5 Social Impact of the Yonki Dam, PNG Institute of Applied Social and
Economic Research, Msy 1985.
C.6 Review of Reservoir Sedimentation for Yonki Dam Project, E.L.
Pemperton.  Report prepared for PNG Electricity Commission, December
1983.
C.7 Review of Probable Maximum Precipitation Estimate for Ramu River
Basin Above Yonki Damsite.  John P. Miller.  Report prepared for PUG
Electricity Commission.  September 1985.



41  04       .3'                                                                                                                                                   890 19385~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR  98
~~~le                                                                                                                     dr                                 J.-~~~~~~~~~~~~IPV  i
m A N u 5                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAPUA NEW GUINEA
J              -----          MAN-----                                                                                                                                            ELECTRICITY COMMISSION
I  ___       I                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YONKI HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
SANDAL/N                                       I                 N                    '                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N EW    I RE IANAOD          PROPOSED PROJECT,
SEP/K                                                                 -    NJ                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING:
Disk Powe Plnts
lrirkpJt        -                             -                                           I                                                                 - ~~~~~~tMvTrerNion Ur
-                    r-~~~~~~~~~                            -~~~~~~ j~~~  -------------   Province--                      --  --  -                                                      BoVeecee
/                           ~~~~~~~/ wa                                                          F NEwi   i  o 
/                        -          I                                              -  8F I T      I
I                        ~~~~~~M A DAN G                                   8                                                        1I1A4               ----
-I  ~~~~~~~                       I        F                   .~~~~~~~          I                                                                FA                      V I I    
f              H~~~~~~~~~~~I NC//ANDS  /MFI
t/ASrFRNF 
C>                                       O~~~       ~~~~~~HIG,     MOPO aE                             E                  
G U Z F    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~II/FIO'                                                                                                                           S
N  F         F                  p                  F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE                 
"I,
I  I  GULF          F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZLEPEISL
P".A E~ GME.                                    C F  N                       F PALN                oR               F                    SSTE
010         F--  - - --. . .    . . . . .                         . . .
/rorrr/orwP->  I  / Porord.ro9.      /              K                                          I~~~~POiT MRESY SSTE
I   -  /     N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEEBR18



