                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27815

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (COFN-03490 TF-23036 CPL-37690)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$57.23 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                                FOR AN

                IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                              May 18, 2004




Water, Environment, Rural and Social Development
Middle-East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                      Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound (LL)
                       LL 1 million = US$ 666.7
                          US$ 1.00 = LL 1,500

                            FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1      December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARIL          Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon
AUB           American University of Beirut
CDR                  Council for Development and Reconstruction
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ERRP          Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
FAO/CP        FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
GOL                  Government of Lebanon
GP            Green Plan
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRMP          Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
LRA           Litani River Authority
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOEW          Ministry of Energy and Water
MTR                  Mid-term Review
NBF           Non-Bank Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NERP          National Emergency Reconstruction Program
NPV           Net Present Value
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PCU           Project Coordination Unit (MOA)
PSR           Project Status Report
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
RWA           Regional Water Authorities
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SIP           Service of Irrigation Projects (MOEW)
WUA           Water Users Associations


                   Vice President:        Christiaan J. Poortman
                 Country Director         Joseph P. Saba
                   Sector Director        Letitia A. Obeng
                  Sector Manager          NarasimhamV. Jagannathan
  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Adel F. Bichara

                                          LEBANON
       IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P005344                                                  Project Name: LB-IRRIGATION
Team Leader: Adel F. Bichara                                         TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 18, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: LB-IRRIGATION                                            L/C/TF Number: COFN-03490; TF-23036;
                                                                                                     CPL-37690
   Country/Department: LEBANESE REPUBLIC                                                   Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (78%); Sub-national government
                            administration (11%); Agricultural extension and research (6%);
                            Central government administration (5%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies
                            and institutions (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/22/1993                                     Effective: 11/08/1994                02/02/1995
     Appraisal: 02/27/1994                                         MTR: 12/31/1997                  06/25/1999
      Approval: 06/29/1994                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Lebanon/Ministry of Energy and Water; Government of
                                           Lebanon/Ministry of Agriculture; Government of Lebanon/Litani River Authority;
                                           Government of Lebanon/Council for Development and Reconstruction
                      Other Partners:      IFAD, Japan

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Director:               Joseph P. Saba                                 Ram K. Chopra
Sector Director:                Letitia A. Obeng                               Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Team Leader at ICR:             Adel F. Bichara                                Jean-Francois Barrés
ICR Primary Author:             Adel F. Bichara; Sylvie Tillier
                                (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production, agriculture-based income and
employment in previously neglected rural areas and to achieve a sustainable and improved management of
water resources, through: (i) the rehabilitation and adequate operation and maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation infrastructure, and (ii) the provision of basic public agricultural support services.

When the project was approved, Lebanon was beginning to recover from the devastation caused by 15
years of violent civil strife and military occupation. In March 1993, the Bank had approved the Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERPP), designed to finance high priority components of the
Government's National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP) in energy, domestic water supply,
education and housing. The Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (IRMP) was to support the
irrigation sub-sector component of the Government's program. The project was in line with the
Bank-assistance strategy in Lebanon, which focused on: (i) helping to rebuild and strengthen the
administration to establish an enabling environment for private sector activity; (ii) rehabilitation of selected
physical infrastructure; and (iii) addressing social needs and environmental concerns.

The project objectives were clear and focused on essential priorities for agriculture and rural development
in Lebanon. Irrigation infrastructure was damaged during the years of conflict, with a near total disruption
in capital investment and maintenance. It had been essentially unchanged since the 1970s and consisted of a
total of about 10 large and medium schemes and over 50 small schemes, all of which were old and poorly
maintained. Essential public agricultural support services (technical support, quality control of inputs and
produce) were also deficient and needed strengthening. Rehabilitation of infrastructure was a prerequisite
for improved management of irrigation schemes and efficient use of water resources. With ERRP support,
the Government had developed a policy and strategic framework for the water sector, which included
principles for cost recovery and restructuring of the Regional Water Authorities (RWAs) in charge of
O&M of water supply for domestic needs and irrigation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project, as designed in the SAR, comprised two major components:

A. Irrigation Rehabilitation (US$ 61.0 million total cost). This component aimed at rehabilitating and
modernizing surface irrigation infrastructure for a total area of about 27,000 ha, including: (i) 5 main
schemes (Yammouneh, Qasmieh Ras El Ain, Danniyeh, Akkar El Bared, South Bekaa) totalling about
17,000 ha, for which feasibility studies had been completed before project appraisal; and (ii) small and
medium schemes for a total of about 10,000 ha, to be selected on the basis of criteria reflecting a
combination of economic rate of return, community participation, poverty and impact on rural income. This
component was to finance civil works, O&M equipment and designs/feasibility studies for the small and
medium schemes. It was to be executed with technical support of the Ministry of Energy and Water
(MOEW) and the Litani River Authority (LRA).

B. Institutional Strengthening (US$ 9.5 million total cost). This component aimed at providing support
to the national public institutions involved in project implementation, and to regional and local institutions
involved in the O&M of irrigation schemes. It consisted mainly in civil works, equipment, technical
assistance and training, with three sub-components:


                                                       - 2 -

1. Irrigation and water management institutions: a) supporting selected departments of MOEW, LRA
and restructured RWAs directly involved in the implementation and operation of the schemes, and to
MOA's Green Plan (GP) and; b) strengthening of the capacity of MOEW and LRA to carry out
environmental monitoring (groundwater quality, gathering and interpretation of hydro-geological data).

2. Agricultural services: strengthening of basic public services of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and
its Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon (ARIL) in areas of applied research, on-farm technology
testing and extension (encompassing all agricultural activities and women income generating activities in
the project areas), and quality control (farm inputs and pesticide residues).

3. Support to project implementation and coordination by MOEW's irrigation sector unit.

All above components were directly related to achieving the project objectives and overall well designed for
this purpose. Selection of priority schemes for rehabilitation was based on clearly defined and sound
technical and socio-economic criteria. Institutional strengthening was appropriately focused on essential
public sector services, as needed to support and complement activities undertaken by the private sector.

From a technical standpoint, the project was fairly straightforward and within the actual capabilities of
national engineering and contracting skills.The project design took into account the capacity of
implementing agencies. Considering the weakness and limited experience of technical ministries in the areas
of Bank procurement practices, and the good performance of the Council for Development and
Reconstruction (CDR) under the ERRP, it was agreed to designate the CDR as the responsible agency for
administrative management of the project including procurement and disbursement, with technical support
from MOEW and MOA. The project provided technical assistance and training to strengthen the technical
capacities of MOEW, MOA and other public agencies to fulfill their mandate.

As appeared during project implementation, two main shortcomings are identified in project design. First,
specific steps and Government actions that needed to be taken to implement necessary changes in the legal
framework for restructuring of the RWAs and the official recognition of WUAs were not spelled out in
details in the project documents. It took much longer than expected for Government to start implementing
the required changes, which contributed to the somewhat limited institutional impact of the project (section
4.5). Second, relying on CDR and MOEW's irrigation sector unit to ensure coordination with other
implementing agencies was unrealistic in the absence of a higher level inter-ministerial coordination
mechanism.
3.4 Revised Components:
At loan negotiations, the Government confirmed to the Bank that a formal request to participate in the
financing of the project had been sent to the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
However, in the absence of a firm commitment from IFAD, the Government asked the Bank to increase the
size of its loan to cover the financing gap.

IFAD conducted its own re-appraisal of the agricultural component in July-August 1994, shortly after
Bank approval of the project in June 1994. It introduced some minor change in the scope of this component
and expanded its size. Sub-components for applied research, technology transfer and extension, and quality
control were maintained basically unchanged. In addition, the agricultural component was to finance (i) the
construction by GP of about ten hill lakes and five associated small-scale irrigation schemes, and (ii)
general operating support to MOA, including establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for
agricultural activities and a unit in MOA responsible for rural women's development activities.

The Government signed a loan with IFAD in January 1995 (SDR 6.70 million) to finance all agricultural



                                                     - 3 -

development activities executed under the project by MOA and its agencies (ARIL, GP). IFAD appointed
the Bank as cooperating agency for project supervision. Proceeds of the Bank loan that initially intended
for agricultural activities, that were now financed by IFAD, were subsequently reallocated to further
support irrigation rehabilitation. Project costs by components, as given in Annex 2 and discussed below,
take into account the revisions in size of the agricultural component introduced by IFAD.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. The project was very responsive and relevant to Government's
circumstances and development priorities. Its objectives were clear and fully consistent with the
Bank-assistance strategy. Project design and components were coherent, incorporated valuable lessons
from Bank experience in the sector and in Lebanon, and took into account the capacity of implementing
agencies. The only reservation relates to the fact the appraisal team over-estimated the willingness and/or
ability of the Government to translate swiftly into concrete actions its commitment to proceed with
institutional reforms in the water sector and restructuring of the RWAs.

Preparation of the detailed designs and the bidding documents for main schemes was underway at the time
of project approval, thus enabling timely project start-up upon effectiveness. The project was expected to
have a positive impact on the environment, as it was expected to reduce the overuse of groundwater
resources by enhancing the availability of surface irrigation water, and to reduce potential hazards
associated with the misuse of pesticides and fertilizers by promoting the use of appropriate techniques.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Taken as a whole, the project's outcome is considered satisfactory. Although the project was implemented
more slowly than planned (closing was extended by two and a half years), the main physical targets have
been achieved by project final closing. In accordance with appraisal targets, all 5 large irrigation schemes
and over 10,000 ha of small and medium schemes have been rehabilitated or modernized. Applied research,
quality control and extension services in the main project areas have been successfully strengthened under
the project.

Through successful rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure, the project is having a
significant impact on improving access to irrigation water and hence increasing agricultural production and
incomes. Improved conveyance and delivery of surface irrigation water have been enhanced by the efficient
water use, resulting in an increase in the irrigated areas and crop yields. In several schemes, increased
availability and reliability of surface irrigation water reduced the need for farmers to resort to costly
pumping of underground water. This reduced on-farm irrigation costs and had a positive impact on the long
term sustainability of water resources. In the Qasmieh Ras El Ain and South Bekaa schemes, supply of
water under pressure fostered the adoption of modern water-saving irrigation techniques (drip and
sprinkling).

Due to contractual delays, most rehabilitation works have only been recently completed, and project
support to agricultural extension services started only about a year ago in most schemes. Therefore, the
actual impact of the project on agricultural production and incomes cannot yet be fully verified. However,
there is evidence that crop yields and intensities have started to increase in several schemes. The positive
overall assessment is borne out by the project's estimated economic rate of return, which reaches 23% and
is quite resistant to adverse scenarios on production benefits. The net financial return to beneficiaries is
expected to be in line with appraisal estimates for most schemes.




                                                       - 4 -

Additional social benefits are experienced especially at the South Bekaa scheme, where small land owners
now have the possibility to farm their own land directly, rather than rent it out or be dependent on private
owners of wells and pumping facilities.

The present status of rehabilitated schemes is in sharp contrast with the situation that prevailed before the
project, when most surface irrigation infrastructure in Lebanon was in poor condition due to years of war
and neglect. At the time of project appraisal and implementation, the priority was clearly to rehabilitate the
basic infrastructure in areas of high potential returns, which the project has successfully achieved. At
present, the priority has shifted towards improving the long term sustainability of this infrastructure
through efficient O&M arrangements. However, in this regard, the project has partially achieved its
objective. About half of the rehabilitated schemes are estimated to have good O&M arrangement, while the
other half needs some strengthening. Nonetheless, the Government has put in place the necessary conditions
to enable efficient O&M arrangements and is now taking appropriate steps in this direction (para 6).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Irrigation schemes and facilities (SAR: US$ 61.0 million/ 79% of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 67.0
million or 86% of project costs):

Irrigation infrastructure has been rehabilitated/modernized over a total area of some 24,300 ha, comprising
about 14,300 ha of large schemes (5 in number) and 10,000 ha for small and medium schemes (17 in
number). Differences in areas of the large schemes are mainly due to the way in which areas were reported
in the SAR for some schemes (i.e. total area of the scheme, rather than area expected to benefit most from
rehabilitation/modernization works). In physical terms, rehabilitation works have exceeded the appraisal
estimates in most cases, mainly due to worse than expected condition of the infrastructure and/or additional
demands from the beneficiaries (e.g. increased number of offtakes, etc.).

By the project closing date (December 31, 2003), the rehabilitation and modernization of the five large
schemes was complete (4,500 ha in Yammouneh, 3,600 ha in Qasmieh Ras El Ain, 2,750 ha in Danniyeh,
1,450 ha in Akkar El Bared and 2,000 ha in South Bekaa). In Danniyeh, a second contract related to
additional distribution canals was completed in November 2003 and benefits were extended over a larger
area than planned at appraisal (1,700 ha). In Akkar El Bared, a decision was made at the design stage to
execute additional works, based on technical and social considerations during field studies, and the area
benefiting from rehabilitation is also larger than planned at appraisal (800 ha).

Contracts for small and medium schemes were grouped in four packages to speed up tendering and
execution. Contracts were awarded during the first half of 2001, covering a total area of 11,650 ha. By
December 31, 2003, construction works related to packages N1 and N2 were complete, while physical
progress stood at about 80% for packages N3 and S. By the loan closing date (April 30, 2004), about 85%
of the works of packages N3 and S were completed.

In accordance with implementation arrangements agreed at appraisal, project beneficiaries were involved in
the review and approval of rehabilitation proposals. MOEW supported the formation of Water Users'
Associations (WUAs) in the large schemes, where they were actively involved with the project at the design
and construction stages. However, they could not officially pursue their activity in the absence of a legal
framework that would define the respective roles of the RWAs and the WUAs. Social studies were also
conducted as part of the feasibility studies of the small and medium schemes, together with systematic
consultations with the beneficiaries during design and construction.

Overall progress in construction works was much slower than originally planned, mainly due to delays in



                                                      - 5 -

tendering and contracts awarding and to the cumbersome procedures for approval of variation orders. In
some cases, these difficulties were further compounded by design changes requested by the beneficiaries,
social tensions or contractors weakness. Quality of works is considered to be generally good, and technical
problems experienced in some of the large schemes during testing or initial operation have all been
corrected. At the time of project closing, there was some concerns with the quality of reinforced concrete
works under package N3, which is now being checked by MOEW.

Besides civil works, designs and supervision for schemes rehabilitation, initial costs estimates for this
component included an amount of about US$ 5.3 million to strengthen O&M capacities, mainly through the
purchase of office technology, vehicles and equipment and other support to the MOEW, LRA, RWAs and
WUAs. Due to delays in implementing institutional reforms for the water sector and for the restructuring of
the RWAs, expenditures were limited to the purchase office technology and vehicles for MOEW and to the
procurement of equipment for LRA (about US$ 0.45 million) to support its O&M activities in the Qasmieh
Ras El Ain and South Bekaa schemes. The balance was reallocated to cover costs overruns in schemes
rehabilitation works which were mainly due to increased physical quantities, whereas unit construction
costs were in line with appraisal estimates.

Institutional strengthening of irrigation and water management institutions (SAR: US$ 4.4 million/ 6%
of project costs ­ Actual: US$ 2.4 million or 3% of project costs):

Through the acquisition of vehicles and equipment and the appointment of national consultants, this
component has strengthened the capacity of MOEW and LRA to supervise and control the execution of
studies and construction works and to carry out environmental monitoring. Under-spending in this
component is mainly due to the fact that less training was provided than originally planned, and no support
could be provided to the RWAs which were restructured very late.

Technical assistance to MOEW and LRA was more intensive than initially planned, consisting mainly in
national consultants who played a key role in ensuring satisfactory implementation of the project's
rehabilitation/modernization works. Training provided under this component included training on
hydrological aspects and on GIS, as well as study tours to other Middle-Eastern countries on participatory
irrigation management and modern irrigation techniques.

Agricultural component (SAR as revised by IFAD: US$ 11.8 million/ 15% of project costs ­ Actual
estimate: US$ 9.0 million or 11% of project costs):

Implementation of this component experienced important delays in the first three years of the project, but it
gradually picked up thereafter. The IFAD loan had the same original closing date of June 30, 2001 as the
Bank loan, but it was later extended twice to December 31, 2004 beyond the final IBRD Loan closing date.


Training and Technology Transfer (TTE) sub-component funded the rehabilitation of 3 agricultural
extension centers and preparation of standard designs for the new centers, procurement of 6 vehicles and
office equipment, national technical assistance and organization of training workshops for the extension
staff and for the farmers. In accordance with implementation arrangements agreed at appraisal, contracts
were signed with outside institutions for the provision of extension services in the irrigation schemes
rehabilitated under the project. The first contract for the Yammouneh scheme was signed with the
American University of Beirut (AUB) in 1998 and is scheduled to end by June 2004. It has been a solid
program with on-farm demonstrations, workshops and training sessions covering a wide variety of topics,
with an emphasis on market-oriented extension, organic or low input agriculture, high-value crop


                                                       - 6 -

diversification and efficient use of scarce resources. Concrete results have been achieved in introducing new
crop varieties, improved on-farm irrigation techniques, integrated pest management techniques and organic
farming. More specifically, the project: a) established primarily 5 contact centers; b) conducted need
Assessment Studies in 12 major localities (109 farmers), c) trained farmers on the use of relevant
agricultural technologies and inputs ( hundreds of farmers; dozens of workshops and training sessions;
dozens of themes and topics); d) produced leaflets and pamphlets; e) conducted dozens of "on-farm
demonstrations" (3-4 dunums demonstrations replicated in 2-3 locations for every crop). All these activities
helped in increasing production and farmers' incomes.

The second TTE contract for the other four large schemes was awarded in December 2002 to AUB, who
has completed the needs assessment and started to implement field activities. This contract is scheduled to
end by June 2004, but it is expected to be extended until IFAD loan closing date. A third TTE contract for
small and medium schemes was signed with the FAO and did not start due to contractual difficulties, but it
is now expected that CDR will sign two contracts with other consultants who should start their work by
mid 2004. Delays in the procurement exercises related to the TTE programs were mainly due the extremely
long time taken by MOA for the establishment of the short-list of consultants.

Applied Research and Quality Control sub-components have funded the construction or rehabilitation of a
total of some 2,250 m2 of laboratories and 4,280 m2 of greenhouses to be completed in 2004, together with
procurement of office and laboratory equipment and vehicles. The project also funded attendance of ARIL
researchers to international congresses. With financial support of the project, ARIL has successfully
employed 33 research assistants and technicians on renewable fixed-term contracts, which enabled the
development of a substantive research program (10 major programs containing 80 themes). Research
programs, which were mainly of an adaptive nature, were related to : irrigation & water use efficiency,
plant protection, agricultural technique, tissue culture, plant breeding, crop production, integrated pest
management, pesticides, etc. Most of these research assistants and technicians have now been recruited on
a permanent basis, which would ensure the sustainability of this sub-component of the project.

Small Scale Irrigation (Hill Lakes) sub-component funded the procurement of vehicles, office and field
equipment to support GP activities. However, during the first years of project's implementation, the Bank
and IFAD provided separate loans to the GP (Agriculture Infrastructure Development Project - AIDP) to
allow it to undertake various activities related to land and water development. As a consequence, the hill
lakes component and associated technical assistance, which were to be undertaken by the GP, were handed
over to MOA and the training to GP staff was undertaken under the AIDP. The first hill lake, with its
associated irrigation network, was completed in 2003. Two other contracts were awarded in the first half of
2001 for the construction of six additional hill lakes. By December 2003, the actual progress rate was
about 90%, with four lakes completed. The remaining two lakes and the construction of associated
irrigation networks is expected to take place in 2004.

Rural Women Development sub-component has funded the setting up and operations of a central unit in
MOA to promote the advancement of rural women. This unit has organized training sessions for rural
women on a variety of topics (olive production, home food processing, feed production and milk processing
techniques, beekeeping) and supported several income generating activities (olive orchard, mushroom
cooperative, powdered chickpea production, seedlings and nursery plants). As MOA is not equipped to
implement many income generating activities with a large number of small women groups, a separate
contract with a lead NGO has been signed and would be executed in 2004 and continued in 2005 using
GOL own funds and with the technical and financial participation of the selected NGO.

Strengthening of MOA. The project funded the establishment and operation of a Project Coordinating Unit


                                                       - 7 -

(PCU) in MOA, procurement of office equipment and MOA staff training. The PCU has been liaising with
CDR for procurement matters and is in charge of reporting on progress and impact of the project. With
limited staff, its focus has been mainly on procurement and monitoring of physical implementation of the
project's agricultural activities. An impact assessment study was commissioned in 2003 and provides some
useful information on the project's overall outcome. Although, it was based on a relatively small sample of
farmers mainly due to delays in contracting and time constraints, its results were taken into account in the
evaluation of the project's impact.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 19% with a net present value
(NPV) of US$ 24.1 million. An updated economic analysis has been carried out at project completion,
based on: (i) actual data on project investment costs, and (ii) updated projections of benefits, taking into
account available information from project implementation on actual situation in the field before and after
completion of rehabilitation works. Detailed assumptions underlying the economic analysis are given in
Annex 3 and 7C.

The updated ERR is estimated to be 23% with a NPV of US$ 32.3 million. Following appraisal
methodology, the economic analysis is based on costs and benefits estimates for the five main schemes, plus
a share of the costs related to institutional strengthening and agricultural development in proportion to the
area covered by these schemes. This corresponds to 64% of the total project costs. For small and medium
schemes, a minimum rate of return of 12% was required among eligibility criteria. While these schemes are
just being completed and it is too early to re-assess their economic viability, ERR estimates in their
feasibility studies are mostly around 20-30%.

Based on preliminary results and on projections of future impact, the updated ERR for each main scheme
are estimated to be respectively 20% for Yammouneh (vs. 30% at appraisal), 36% for Qasmieh (23% at
appraisal), 24% for Danniyeh (20% at appraisal), 23% for Akkar (24% at appraisal) and 13% for South
Bekaa (16% at appraisal). The relatively high ERR at completion for the whole project is mainly due to the
good performance in Qasmieh, where actual yields in the field are reported to be significantly higher than
anticipated at appraisal. In general, best economic performance is expected in schemes producing mainly
fruit (Qasmieh and, to a lesser extent, Danniyeh), while production of vegetables and potatoes is exposed to
greater competition from neighboring countries. Economic performance is relatively low in Yammouneh,
mainly due to harsh climatic conditions in winter and limited water availability in summer, but nonetheless
favorable due to smaller investment costs per hectare than other schemes. Investment costs per hectare are
highest in South Bekaa, where they involve not only rehabilitation but also completion of the surface
irrigation network to extend it to new areas. The updated ERR for the South Bekaa scheme is
underestimated, since part of the investments in head structures have been dimensioned to served additional
areas of about 6,700 ha expected to be developed in a second phase. If corresponding extra costs are
excluded from the economic analysis, the updated ERR for the South Bekaa scheme phase 1 (supported
under the project) is 17%.

At project completion in most schemes, the project's rehabilitation works have been completed only
recently and agricultural extension services are just starting. While there is some evidence that crop yields
and intensities have started to improve in several schemes, the economic analysis is based on projections of
future benefits that have not yet been fully achieved. However, sensitivity analyses show that the project
would remain economically viable in several adverse scenarios. With benefits lagged two years or reduced
by 20%, the project as a whole would generate ERR of 18% and 17% respectively, and 13% with both a
two-year lag and reduced benefits.




                                                       - 8 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No estimate of aggregate financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal, but it was estimated that
increases in farm incomes at full development would range from about +20% to +200% depending on
schemes and farm sizes. Updated estimates at project completion are in line with appraisal estimates in
most cases, except in Yammouneh (and, to a lesser extent, Akkar) where they are lower than expected at
appraisal but still substantial at +50% and +20% respectively. Also, farm incomes in absolute terms are
usually lower in these areas (particularly Yammouneh) that in other schemes. At appraisal, it was expected
that full benefits for main schemes would be mostly achieved by the eighth year of the project (i.e. year
2002). The re-estimate at completion indicates that, except in Qasmieh, full development will most likely be
achieved only three to four years later than envisioned at appraisal, mainly due to delays in project
implementation, completion of rehabilitation works and implementation of agricultural support services.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a whole, the project had a modest institutional development impact.

The project has enhanced the capacity of MOEW and LRA to implement construction activities efficiently
and within budget. They have gained experience in preparation of specifications and tender documents, in
preparation of feasibility studies and final designs, in supervising civil works construction works, in
specifying remedial works for hand-over, in reception of works after defect liability period and, in general,
a know-how in execution and management of irrigation projects. The project has also introduced a
participatory approach to irrigation development, by supporting the active involvement of users at the
studies and design stages, allowing them to have a say in the choice of technical solutions. The
implementation agencies and the consulting firms initially had some trouble in implementing this
participatory approach, but they gradually came to value and appreciate it.

Most of the MOA staff involved in project implementation were hired on fixed-term contracts which came
to an end with the project closing date. However, it is now expected that some of the staff would soon be
employed on a permanent basis so as to ensure that the experience gained is not lost.

Sustainability of the project's institutional impact is highly likely to be ensured at the LRA, which is
responsible for the O&M of irrigation schemes in the Litani river basin (Qasmieh Ras El Ain and South
Bekaa), as it has the required staff with adequate experience.

Furthermore, the project has strengthened the capacity of MOA particularly in agricultural extension,
applied research and support to rural women. MOA field extension staff has been closely involved in
implementation of the TTE component by AUB and the research support staff hired under the project have
now been recruited by ARIL on a permanent basis.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
After many years of neglect and war damages, the actual condition of irrigation infrastructure turned out to
be worse than expected in some parts of the project area. During project implementation, the scope of
works increased in many instances. This resulted in cost over-runs and, in some cases, contributed to delays
in project implementation. Climatic conditions and the presence of mines in South Bekaa also had some
impact on the pace of project implementation.

Changes in designs occurred on some occasions during construction works due to shifting requests from the
beneficiaries, particularly regarding the choice between open canals and pipes. MOEW was in favor of
adopting piped networks rather than open channels in order to increase the water use efficiency. However,


                                                       - 9 -

in few cases, farmers later insisted on adopting open channels, after initially agreeing with the MOEW
proposal for piped networks. Dialogue with beneficiaries was at times difficult, particularly in areas where
farmers used to derive substantial revenues from the cultivation of illicit crops, which the Government
started to ban after the end of the period of conflict.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During project negotiations (1994), the Government had confirmed that it was working on the preparation
of a national Water Management Master Plan, in order to implement the policy and strategy framework for
the water sector that it had developed with support of the Bank under the ERRP. At that time, some 19
Regional Water Authorities (RWAs) and 209 Regional Water Committees, under the administrative
supervision of MOEW, were responsible for water supply management for both domestic and irrigation
water, including systems operation and maintenance (O&M). The Government's intention, stated in the
Letter of Irrigation Sector Policy submitted to the Bank during project negotiations, was to establish before
end 1994 four RWAs (North Bekaa, North Lebanon, Mount Lebanon, LRA). These RWAs would have
full financial and managerial autonomy and could delegate maximum responsibility to local units (Scheme
Water Management Committees, WUAs).

Preparation of the Master Plan was delayed and successive Bank supervision missions were informed that
presentation to Parliament of the institutional reform law was postponed. Upon the Bank's insistence In
May 2000 (amended in August 2000), law No 221 was promulgated, providing for the establishment of
four RWAs that will gradually take over all activities of other existing entities involved in water systems
management.

Finally, the new RWAs have now been established and are gradually becoming fully functional. However,
due to this considerable delay in restructuring the RWAs, the project could not provide the intended
institutional strengthening to support their activities.

Procurement procedures and regulations have also created some complications and difficulties in project
implementation. As is the case under other Bank supported projects in Lebanon, the CDR was entrusted
with the overall responsibility of project management including all procurement and disbursement matters,
with sector ministries (MOEW and MOA) providing technical support. Contractors and consultants for
design and construction works were contracted by CDR, while MOEW, MOA and LRA were in charge of
their overall supervision and technical control. Besides administrative delays in obtaining the necessary
clearances, this has created difficulties due to insufficient authority and empowerment of the
implementation agencies to settle occasional disputes with contractors or consultants.

Particularly in the last years of project implementation, due to the difficult economic situation and
shrinking overall demand for construction services, some contractors bid prices were low compared to the
engineering costs estimates. As a result of these unrealistically low bids, some of the selected contractors
were not able to perform adequately, which has created problems in the implementation of some small and
medium schemes (package S). Similarly, in the absence of a formula for price revision during contract
execution, steep increases in market prices of aggregates, sand and reinforced steel resulted in a slow-down
of contractors' works during the last 18 months of project execution when project works were at full speed.
The Government promised to look into this matter but it never really did.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Particularly in the early years of project implementation, procurement was delayed by a lack of
coordination and collaboration between CDR and MOEW. The situation improved thereafter. However,
throughout the project implementation period, administrative delays in decision making and clearances,



                                                      - 10 -

contract awards and approval of routine variation orders have contributed to slow down the execution of
the project's rehabilitation works.

Coordination between technical implementation agencies (MOEW, LRA, MOA) was limited, and the
expected synergies between irrigation rehabilitation and agricultural development activities did not fully
materialize until the last years of project implementation. There was considerable delay in the establishment
and adequate staffing of the PCU by MOA, with initial problems in coordination of agricultural activities
and collaboration between MOA's PCU, ARIL and GP. Implementation of the agricultural component
picked up after some years, but it had then to focus mainly on procurement matters in order to make up for
accumulated delays. In most schemes, agricultural extension activities started up at a late stage, which
contributed to delays in achieving full benefits from the project at farm level. Partly due to limited staffing,
the MOA did not keep systematic records at scheme level on irrigated areas, yields and cropping intensities
or other relevant information to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on agricultural production
and farm incomes. The Impact Assessment Study was carried out at a late stage and with limited means
and insufficient time to cross-check the data with other sources and agencies (MOEW, LRA) involved in
the project. However enough data were collected from different sources which allowed a proper estimation
of the project's benefits.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the project implementation period was estimated at six years. The Bank loan was declared
effective in February 1995. The project was extended twice and closed in December 2003. Administrative
delays in procurement procedures, managed by CDR and not by the direct implementing agencies (MOEW,
LRA and MOA), requiring strong and continuous coordination between different agencies were the main
reason for the delay in project implementation. Final disbursement from the Bank loan reached a total of
US$ 57.00 million (99.6% of the Bank loan of US$ 57.23 million).

The IFAD loan, approved in December 1994 and signed in January 1995, was declared effective only in
January 1996, due to delays in ratification by Parliament and appointment by MOA of a project
coordinator for its PCU. Its closing date has been extended twice to December 2004. It is expected that a
total of at most US$ 7.8 million (equivalent to about 90% of the IFAD loan of SDR 6.7 million) would be
disbursed from the IFAD loan by its closing date.

Actual project cost, including eligible expenditures expected to take place until the final closing dates of
IFAD loan, is estimated at US$ 78.4 million, or about 102% of the estimate made at appraisal (including
increase in the size of the agricultural component by IFAD). This consists of US$ 69.5 million for the
irrigation component financed by the Bank (106% of appraisal estimate) and US$ 9.0 million for the
agriculture component (76% of IFAD's appraisal estimate). Government's contribution, estimated at a total
of US$ 13.6 million, is in line with initial appraisal estimate (102%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely.

Sustainability of project investments depends mainly on adequate arrangements for O&M of the irrigation
schemes rehabilitated under the project. Although the present situation varies among schemes, good
arrangements are either already in place or expected to be put in place in a near future, in collaboration
with existing local water authorities and committees and with the new Regional Water Authorities (RWAs).




                                                      - 11 -

Out of the 5 large and 17 small/ medium schemes rehabilitated under the project, 3 large (60%) ones
(Qasmieh Ras El Ain, South Bekaa and Danniyeh) and 4 small/ medium schemes (23%) already have very
good O&M modalities. Local water authorities and local committees responsible for the other schemes need
to improve their O&M procedures and performance. However, with the rehabilitation which took place,
these authorities and committees are well aware of their responsibilities and have already shown signs of
real ownership.

It is recognized that water users will be increasingly responsible for O&M of their schemes, including
payment of adequate water charges to cover full O&M costs. This is already achieved in some schemes.
The project has put in place the necessary conditions for this to happen in the rehabilitated schemes
(improved water supply and distribution; rehabilitation works generally of a satisfactory standard and
respond to the needs of the users who have been involved in the choice of technical solution; increased farm
incomes which are fully compatible with payment of full O&M costs; provision of good agriculture
services). MOEW and the new Water Authorities should seriously look at ways of rapidly improving the
current situation.

The law No. 221 promulgated in 2000 provides a sound framework for an efficient reorganization of the
water sector, with the creation of four RWAs that will regroup the activities of existing local water
authorities and water committees. Due to a number of technical, administrative and financial constraints, it
will admittedly take some time for these new RWAs to become fully functional.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Until the four new RWAs are fully operational and for the schemes with a somewhat weak O&M
arrangements, MOEW is to provide support to local water committees in order to start, as soon as
possible, a comprehensive campaign aiming at informing farmers of the new operational modalities of the
rehabilitated schemes, and helping them to establish regular and emergency maintenance procedures. The
issue of water fees would also be once more discussed with farmers, as well as the future responsibilities of
the WUAs that were formed under the project during design and rehabilitation works.

Under the agricultural component, MOA field extension in the project areas, who are receiving both formal
and on-the-job training from AUB under the TTE contracts, are expected to continue their activities at the
end of the project after the closing date of the IFAD loan. The research assistants and technicians, now
hired on a permanent basis by ARIL, will help in continuing ARIL present and future activities.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. The
Bank was responsive to the country's urgent reconstruction needs. The project was prepared and appraised
in a relatively short time, as it was identified in July 1993 and appraised in February 1994. The Bank
helped the Government in getting FAO/CP to conduct the project preparation, and to mobilize financial
support through a Japanese grant which was used for the preparation of the feasibility studies and of the
bidding documents.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory. Throughout the long implementation of the project, supervision
missions were carried out on a regular basis, with an appropriate skill mix and good staff continuity. The



                                                       - 12 -

Bank maintained a good relationship with the implementing agencies. Supervision reports gave accurate
assessments of progress and constraints. Bank supervision missions took up relevant issues at appropriate
times, although they could do little to speed up institutional reform in the water sector. During the initial
stages of implementation, Bank supervision was mostly concerned with procurement and administrative
issues. In the last years of project implementation, Bank supervision insisted on the need for M&E of the
project impact and gave professional advice to put in place appropriate interim arrangements for O&M
until operational decrees for the new law would be effective.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in implementation was satisfactory. Government's commitment to
institutional reform in the water sector was not as strong as originally expected and it took a long time to
materialize. However, this was partly due to political constraints and the sensitive nature of water fees.
Adequate counterpart funds were made available to proceed with project investments and meet the
Government's share of investment in rehabilitation works.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation was in general satisfactory. All the concerned entities closely participated in
and effectively contributed to the project preparation, appraisal and supervision. Nevertheless, the
Government was late in implementing the water law and as a consequence, the Project's intended support to
the RWAs and to the formal WUAs never materialized.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of Implementing Agencies was satisfactory. Although there were some delays in
procurement, particularly in the early years of project implementation, CDR played its role in a
professional way. MOEW's Department of Irrigation Projects succeeded in assembling a core team of
competent and dedicated staff to implement the project, and introduced a participatory approach to
irrigation development by integrating sociologists in its team. Strong staff commitment enabled the project
to meet its main targets, despite occasional difficulties in getting adequate budget support and
transportation. After initial delays and changes in staff, the MOA established an efficient PCU which
managed to speed up implementation of agricultural activities, although it remained constrained by limited
staffing. Finally, LRA had a very good team who efficiently supervised the project's activities under its
jurisdiction.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above considerations, the overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The key lessons learned from design and implementation of this project are:
·        A clear road map for O&M should be defined before start-up of irrigation projects. In a
situation where sector reform is a prerequisite to ensure satisfactory O&M of facilities to be built under the
project, the passing of relevant legislations (Water Law, RWAs, WUAs, cost recovery) should take place
before Board presentation. The required legal framework for the proper functioning of the RWAs and for
the establishment of formal Water Users Associations should have been introduced at the beginning. This
would have enhanced the prospects for project sustainability. As the legal framework requires much work
and time, the project would have benefited from a longer preparation period. However, such requirements



                                                     - 13 -

would have been difficult to meet under the prevailing political circumstances, and the Bank was also
rightfully concerned with providing urgent support to the Government's reconstruction needs.
·        Implementing agencies need to be adequately empowered to carry out their procurement
duties. The arrangement whereby the CDR was responsible for all procurement and disbursement matters
has its merits. However, the technical agencies (MOEW, MOA and LRA) should be delegated sufficient
responsibility and authority for the preparation and clearance of contracts documents and of variation
orders and settling of eventual disputes with consultants and contractors in order to ensure rapid
implementation and establish clearer responsibilities. This problem was encountered in several of the other
projects implemented in Lebanon during the same period.
·        A strong M&E unit should be established from the beginning of the project, not only to look at
the physical and financial aspects of the project, but also to follow-up on its sustainability and impact.
Good baseline data and an early implementation of an effective monitoring system are essential. The
non-availability of a proper database and the inadequate functioning of the monitoring system contributed
to the difficulties in impact evaluation and the ability to optimize of the future investment programs. More
resources should have been made available during project preparation for establishing a proper database.
Amongst the main indicators for future monitoring and evaluation of the project impact would be the
recovery rates of O&M costs in the rehabilitated schemes, together with indicators on agricultural
production and, if possible, farm incomes.
·        A national inter-ministerial steering committee should have been formed at the onset, with a
clear mandate and terms of reference. In the absence of a high level inter-ministerial coordination
mechanism, little coordination could be achieved among the various implementing agencies.
·        Consideration should be given to improving procurement regulations, including provisions for
rejection of bids with excessively low prices compared to engineering estimates, and for the introduction of
a formula for automatic price revision in the event of significant increases in the prices of raw materials.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
Major crop yields in rehabilitated irrigation
schemes (tons/ha):

Yammouneh                            Wheat        3.5                               3.5
                                    Potatoes    25.5                              25.5
Qasmieh Ras El Ain                   Bananas    19.8                              24.0
                                    Citrus      14.4                              32.0
Danniyeh                            Apples      41.0                              30.0
                                    Peaches     35.0                              23.0
                                    Pears       42.0                              30.5
Akkar El Bared                      Citrus      18.0                              18.0
                                    Potatoes    30.0                              30.0
South Bekaa                        Potatoes     26.0                              33.0
                                    Wheat         5.3                               4.3
                                    BBeans      11.5                              13.0

Area cultivated in the rehabilitated schemes
(ha):

Yammouneh                                        5,600                            4,500
Qasmieh Ras El Ain                               3,800                            3,600
Danniyeh                                         5,000                            2,750
Akkar El Bared                                     800                            1,450
South Bekaa                                      2,000                            2,000
Small and Medium                                10,000                            10,000

Cropping intensity per scheme (%).

Yammouneh                                        109                              110
Qasmieh Ras El Ain                               203 (105)                        105
Danniyeh                                         100                              100
Akkar El Bared                                   150                              130
South Bekaa                                      115                              160

Agriculture income in rehabilitated schemes
(% increase).

Yammouneh                                        190 - 360                         57
Qasmieh Ras El Ain                                35 - 56                          57
Danniyeh                                           8 - 24                          20
Akkar El Bared                                    52 - 54                          30
South Bekaa                                      200                              185
Small and Medium                                  NA                              NA

Number of families benefiting from the
project.

Yammouneh                                        3,630 (41,000)                    2,920 (33,000)
Qasmieh Ras El Ain                               1,200 (8,000)                     1,280 (8,500)
Danniyeh                                         9,300 (83,700)                    5,120 (46,040)
Akkar El Bared                                     170 (1,903)                       308 (3,450)
South Bekaa                                      6,900 (41,340)                    6,900 (50,000)
Small and Medium                                   NA                             10,000 (100,000)

Construction & rehabilitation of 5 laboratories 2,250                             2,250
(m2)

Construction of hill lakes ('000 m3)              775                                582

Construction & rehabilitation of extension      1,000                                730
offices (m2)




                                                               - 15 -

Construction & rehabilitation of 17          3,000                                     4,278
Green/Glass Houses (m2)

Technical assistance (person-month)

    MOEW                                       87                                       610
     RWAs                                     229                                          0
    LRA                                        51                                       158
     MOA                                      222                                      1,194
    GP                                         24                                          0

Training (person-week)

MOEW                                           95                                        10
RWA                                            57                                         0
LRA                                            56                                        37
MOA                                            68                                         2
GP                                             86                                         0

 1/ End of project (SAR Target)
2/        End of project
 1/ End of project (SAR Target at full development)
 2/ At full development
 3/ SAR yield estimates have been revised upwards in the ICR both without and with the project
 4/ SAR yield estimates have been revised downwards in the ICR both without and with the project
 5/ 1,700 ha were expected to benefit most


Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
              Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                         Estimate          Estimate           Appraisal
           Project Cost By Component                    US$ million       US$ million
A. Irrigation Rehabilitation


1. Irrigation schemes and facilities                           60.98                67.02               110
   Yammouneh                                                     7.72                8.25               107
   Qasmieh                                                       9.78                8.71                89
   Danniyeh                                                      6.42                8.04               125
   Akkar                                                         2.38                3.08               130
   South Bekaa                                                 14.10                17.26               122
   Small & Medium Schemes                                      20.58                21.68               105

2. Institutional strengthening                                   4.43                2.41                54
   MOEW irrigation services                                      1.46                0.75                51
   MOEW hydrological services                                    0.52                0.33                64
   LRA                                                           1.41                1.31                92
   RWA/ WUA                                                      0.77                0.00                 0
   Sector implementation unit (MOEW)                             0.26                0.03                12


B. Agricultural Component                                      11.75                 8.96                76

   TTE (agricultural extension)                                  2.27                1.59                70
   Applied Research                                              2.85                2.49                88
   Quality Control                                               0.73                0.58                80
   Small Scale Irrigation (GP hill lakes)                        4.15                2.18                52
   Rural Women                                                   0.91                0.97               106
   Strengthening MOA                                             0.84                1.15               137
   Total Baseline Cost                                         77.15                78.40               102
    Physical Contingencies
    Price Contingencies
                             Total Project Costs               77.15                78.40               102
                     Total Financing Required                  77.15

Appraisal estimate refers to cost figures as revised by IFAD for the agricultural component. Before re-
appraisal of this component by IFAD, total project costs estimate was US$ 70.49 million.




                                                        - 17 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Procurement Method1
        Expenditure Category
                                            ICB              NCB           Other2           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                   27.19            19.20            1.00            0.00          47.39
                                          (21.75)           (15.37)         (0.80)          (0.00)       (37.92)
2. Goods                                    8.93             0.00            2.00            0.00          10.93
                                           (8.77)           (0.00)          (2.00)          (0.00)       (10.77)
3. Services                                 0.00             0.00            8.54            0.00           8.54
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (8.54)          (0.00)        (8.54)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00             0.00            0.00            3.63           3.63
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
    Total                                  36.12            19.20           11.54            3.63          70.49
                                          (30.52)           (15.37)        (11.34)          (0.00)       (57.23)

Appraisal estimate refers to costs and procurement plan before involvement of IFAD in agricultural component.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Procurement Method1
        Expenditure Category
                                            ICB              NCB           Other2           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                   61.57             0.00            0.00            3.35          64.91
                                          (49.25)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)       (49.25)
2. Goods                                    0.00             0.00            0.90            1.21           2.11
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.78)          (0.00)        (0.78)
3. Services                                 0.00             0.00            6.97            3.42          10.39
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (6.97)          (0.00)        (6.97)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00             0.00            0.00            0.98           0.98
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
    Total                                  61.57             0.00            7.87            8.96          78.40
                                          (49.25)           (0.00)          (7.75)          (0.00)       (57.00)

N.B.F. stands for non-Bank financed (most items were financed under the IFAD loan).

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


             Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage of Appraisal
                                     Bank       Govt.      CoF.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Irrigation Rehabilitation:
  Irrigation schemes and facilities  48.80      12.18               54.20     12.82              111%     105%
  Institutional strengthening         4.12       0.31                2.29      0.12               56%     40%
Agricultural Component:               4.30       0.79                0.52      0.61      7.84     12%     77%
Total                                57.23      13.27               57.00     13.56      7.84    100%     102%

Appraisal estimate refers to costs and financing plan before involvement of IFAD in agricultural component.




                                                         - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Present value of flows (in US$ million equivalent, constant 2003 prices)
                                              Economic Analysis                        Financial Analysis
                                           Appraisal       Latest Estimates       Appraisal       Latest Estimates
Benefits                                       -                 72.2
Costs                                          -                 39.9
NPV at a 12% discount rate                    24.1               32.3           not available
IRR :                                         19%                23%            not available

A. Methodology

Estimates of NPV and ERR for the project as a whole, as well as for each of the five main schemes, have
been revised following the methodology used in the SAR. Revised estimates are based on actual costs
reflecting project implementation and an updated projection of benefits. The analysis is done in constant
2003 prices, over a period of 25 years and with the opportunity cost of capital estimated at 12% as in the
SAR.

Project Costs. The economic value of the project investment costs is derived from: (i) actual disbursements
and project costs as reported by implementing agencies from project start-up until end September (MOA)
or November (MOEW) 2003; and (ii) estimates of additional disbursements and costs expected to be
incurred by April 30, 2004 (Bank loan) or December 31, 2004 (closing date of the IFAD loan).
Considering that there are no restrictions on the trade of goods and services, the Lebanese Pound is freely
convertible, and domestic markets are generally free from price distortions, no conversion factor has been
applied to the project costs. Taxes on investment costs are considered to be negligible, as contract prices do
not include the value-added tax of 10% introduced in Lebanon in 2002. Unit construction costs have
fluctuated during the project period depending on market demand for construction services and availability
of some raw materials (e.g. aggregates), but there has been no overall inflationary trend for these and other
project investment costs. The exchange rate has remained basically constant at about US$ 1 = LL 1500.

Recurrent costs include mainly the incremental annual O&M costs of irrigation infrastructure in the
rehabilitated schemes. They have been estimated on the basis of: (i) updated estimates of O&M costs from
LRA for the Qasmieh and South Bekaa schemes; and (ii) estimates from appraisal/ feasibility studies for
other schemes, for which O&M costs have yet to be re-estimated when restructured RWAs become
operational.

Costs not directly related to individual irrigation schemes are excluded from the economic analysis of each
of the five main schemes, as was done in the SAR. The five economic analyses are aggregated to obtain the
overall economic analysis of the project. This aggregate economic analysis includes the costs of the
institutional strengthening and agricultural components in proportion to the area covered by the five main
schemes (i.e. 55% in the ICR based on actual project implementation, vs. 63% estimated in the SAR).
Costs related to the rehabilitation of small and medium schemes and to the construction of hill lakes are not
included in the economic analysis. On the whole, the overall economic analysis of the project is based on
64% of the total project costs in the revised ICR estimate.

Project Benefits. The primary benefits of the project consist of: (i) incremental agricultural production due
to increases in yields and/or cropping intensities in the rehabilitated schemes, resulting mainly from
increased water use efficiency through improved conveyance and delivery of surface irrigation water; and,
to a lesser extent, (ii) a reduction in on-farm production costs resulting from savings in labor requirements



                                                      - 19 -

to irrigate the land and, in several schemes, a decreased reliance on costly pumping of underground
irrigation water. Benefits are also derived from improved use of agricultural inputs and cultural practices
supported by extension services.

At project completion in most schemes, the rehabilitation works have been completed only fairly recently.
Except in the Yammouneh scheme, agricultural extension services started under the project only about a
year ago (all other main schemes) or are about to start (small and medium schemes). Therefore in most
cases, the actual impact of the project on agricultural production and incomes cannot be verified yet.
However, there is some evidence that due the project's activities, crop yields and intensities have started to
improve in several schemes.

Revised estimates of economic benefits are based on updated projections of crop areas, yields and
production costs, taking into account the actual (present) situation in each scheme after completion of
rehabilitation works and the situation that prevailed before these works. The ICR analysis is slightly
hampered by some lack in project-specific benefit data for few schemes, despite recommendations made by
Bank supervision missions for the strengthening of benefit/ impact M&E. Assessment of the present and
future situation, and comparison with the pre- or without project situation, is based on mission's estimates
and partial, secondary data assembled by the ICR mission from several sources:
§        For Qasmieh and South Bekaa schemes, LRA keeps detailed annual records on the number of
irrigating farmers, plot sizes and irrigation method, and major crops grown on each plot. It also makes
estimates of production costs, yields and revenues per hectare for major crops. These data have been used
in the revised ICR economic analysis.
§        Elsewhere in the project area, the MOA has not kept systematic records at scheme level on
irrigated areas, areas planted with different types of crops, crop yields or other relevant information (such
as irrigation methods, cultural practices, production costs and farm incomes). The Impact Assessment
study carried out in 2003 gives some useful information. However, it was based on a relatively small
sample of farmers due to limited time. The type of information presented in the report varies among
schemes and no attempt was made to collect complementary data from secondary sources, so that the
results cannot be generalized. For these reasons, the ICR mission met with the AUB and field staff of MOA
involved in the TTE component in order to obtain further information related to crop areas and yields in the
three other main schemes (Yammouneh, Danniyeh and Akkar).
§        In 2002, MOEW conducted field interviews in several schemes, specifically aimed at assessing
changes in cropping intensities and yields as a result of rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. This work
could not completed on all schemes and was carried out with limited means, but provides useful
information.

The details of the cropped areas, yields and production costs (crop budgets) used in the ICR revised
economic analysis are given in the project files (annex 7C). Crop production benefits have been phased
over 5 years, starting in the year following completion of main rehabilitation works in each scheme.
Farm-gate financial prices of inputs and outputs have been updated to 2003 prices, and their economic
values are estimated as follows:
§        The economic value of wheat and other cereals is estimated on an import substitution basis, as
Lebanon is a net importer, based on long term (2015) World Bank Commodity Price Prospects. Most other
crops produced in the project areas are sold on the domestic market and either they differ in quality from
world market references (e.g. citrus, banana) or there is no international reference price available (e.g.
lettuce, onion). Domestic financial prices have been used as economic values for these crops, which is in
line with the absence of significant trade restrictions, subsidies or other distortions on the domestic market.
§        Economic values of fertilizers are estimated at import parity, taking into account long term (2015)
World Bank Commodity Price Prospects. Other tradable agricultural inputs (mechanization, seeds,


                                                      - 20 -

pesticides) are not subsidized and their economic values do not differ significantly from their respective
financial prices which have been used in the economic analysis.
§        Irrigation water charges are excluded from the economic analysis, since the schemes investment
and O&M costs are already included in the project costs. Water charges have been included, however, in
the farm income analysis.
§        Economic value of labor is considered as equivalent to the market wage rate, as there is no
significant distortions in the rural labor market.

B. Main Results

In the Yammouneh scheme, it is estimated that only around 20% of the area benefited from surface
irrigation before the project's rehabilitation works, due to deteriorated infrastructure. The full area of about
4,500 ha of cultivable land is now served by rehabilitated headworks and canals. As anticipated at
appraisal, water resources remain scarce during the summer dry season, which limits the scope for
double-cropping. As expected in the SAR, improved conveyance and delivery of surface irrigation water
throughout the project area translates into: (i) an increase in total area grown with summer crops
(vegetables, potatoes) expected to reach up to about ,1000 ha in future, together with a reduction in
underground water pumping costs for existing summer crops; and (ii) an increase in yields of winter crops
(mainly cereals). In the Yammouneh area, the Government has supported in recent years the cultivation of
tobacco, which is not an irrigated crop. This development is independent of the project. Compared to SAR
projections, it translates into a reduction in the areas grown under other crops in winter (cereals and
pulses). Also due to market conditions, the production of pulses has not developed as expected in the SAR.
All yields estimates have been kept unchanged as in the SAR, and cropping patterns and yields used in the
ICR revised economic analysis are as follows:


                                                     Yammouneh

                                        Without Project            With Project

                                          area          yield      area        yield
                                             ha          t/ha         ha         t/ha

Cereals                                  1,500            1.8     1,600           3.5
Pulses                                     160            1.2       200           1.8
Tobacco                                  1,200            0.8     1,200           0.8
Vegetables                                 230           20.0       500         20.0
Potatoes                                   410           20.0     1,100         25.5

Total cropped area                       3,500                    4,600
Area cultivable to annual crops          4,195                    4,195
Cropping intensity                        83%                     110%

Fruit trees                                305                      305

Total cultivable area                    4,500                    4,500

                          with project = at full development (phased over 5 years)
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Yammouneh scheme is estimated at 20% (base case), which is
significantly lower that the SAR estimate of 30%. This difference is explained mainly by: (i) reduced areas
of irrigated winter crops compared to SAR projections, which is largely due to the present development of
subsidized tobacco production; (ii) the absence of any significant development of pulses production; and
(iii) summer crops consist mostly of potatoes, instead of other more valuable vegetables as expected in the



                                                       - 21 -

SAR, mainly due to marketing constraints and low competitiveness of domestic vegetables production
against imports from neighboring countries (issues which could not be addressed due to the limited scope of
the Project). The project investment costs also exceed the SAR estimates by about +18% (actual costs of
US$ 8.25 million including construction, studies and supervision, vs. SAR estimate of US$ 7.02 million
including contingencies). This, however, has only a limited impact on the ERR which is less sensitive to
variations in costs than in benefits, as expected in the SAR economic analysis. The revised ERR estimate is
relatively robust to the risks of a decline and/or delay in reaching the full benefits expected from the
project. The sensitivity analysis indicates that a decrease in benefits by -20% would reduce the ERR to
16%, whereas a delay of 2 years would reduce it to 15% (13% if reduction and delay are combined).

In the SAR, farm incomes were expected to increase by about +200 to +300% depending on farm size.
Revised ICR estimates indicate an average increase of about +57% at full development, which is still
significant. The difference between SAR and ICR estimates is explained by the same factors as the
difference in ERR. These figures do not include incomes from the cultivation of illicit crops, which used to
be widely grown in this area.

In the Qasmieh Ras el Ain scheme, the rehabilitation works, equipment and technical support provided
under the project have improved the reliability of surface irrigation water supply and the management of
water resources. Water losses have been substantially reduced and LRA has introduced differential water
charges to encourage the adoption of water-saving techniques such as drip irrigation which is presently
used on more than 300 ha (mostly banana). Overall improvement in surface water distribution throughout
the total irrigated area of 3,600 ha translates into a reduction in pumping costs through decreased reliance
on underground water from private wells, together with substantial increases in average yields and
improvement in the quality of fruit. Based on recent data from LRA, the following cropping patterns and
yields are used in the ICR revised economic analysis:


                                                 Qasmieh Ras El Ain

                                        Without Project            With Project

                                          area          yield       area        yield
                                            ha           t/ha        ha          t/ha

Area cultivable to annual crops             300                     300

Citrus                                   2,100           24.0     1,200          32.0
Banana                                   1,200           20.0     2,100          24.0

Total cultivable area                    3,600                    3,600

                          with project = at full development (phased over 5 years)
In comparison with assumptions made in the SAR, fruit yields have been revised upwards in both situations
with the project and without the project. There is also a marked tendency for farmers to replace citrus by
banana, which is more profitable under current market conditions. The economic rate of return (ERR) for
the Qasmieh scheme is estimated at 36% (base case). This is significantly higher that the SAR estimate of
23%, mainly because yields were underestimated in the SAR. There is also a saving of about 5% on project
investment costs as compared with SAR estimates (actual costs of US$ 8.71 million including construction,
studies and supervision, vs. SAR estimate of US$ 9.14 million including contingencies). The sensitivity
analysis indicates that the revised ERR estimate is quite resistant to deviations from the base case
assumptions. With a decrease in benefits by -20%, the ERR would still be about 30% and it would
decrease to 25% with a delay of 2 years in reaching full benefits (21% if reduction and delay are



                                                       - 22 -

combined). Such developments are most unlikely, as the main rehabilitation works were already completed
in 1999 and the ICR revised estimates of benefits are based on the actual (present) situation.

In the SAR, farm incomes in the Qasmieh scheme were expected to increase by about +35% for small
farms and +56% for medium size farms. Revised ICR estimates indicate an average increase of about
+57% at full development, which is in line with SAR estimates. However, increases in farm incomes are
higher in absolute terms than expected at appraisal, since yield estimates (and hence farm incomes) have
been revised upwards.

In the Danniyeh scheme, the whole project area of 2,750 ha of cultivable irrigated land is occupied by
fruit trees (mainly plums and apricots at low elevations, pears and peaches at middle elevations and apples
in the high areas). As expected in the SAR, the project's rehabilitation works have significantly improved
the availability and reliability of water supply particularly in low elevation areas, which is having a positive
impact on yields and quality of fruit. Cropping patterns are not expected to change in the near future, but
there is substantial scope for gradual introduction of improved crop husbandry practices under the TTE
component. Based on a field assessment conducted by AUB in 2002 for the TTE component, yields
estimates in the SAR turned out to be highly inflated in both situations with the project and without the
project. With yield estimates revised downwards, cropping patterns estimated on the basis of AUB's recent
assessment, and assumptions on percentage increases in yields kept unchanged as in the SAR, the following
estimates of cropping patterns and yields are used in the ICR revised economic analysis:


                                                       Danniyeh

                                       Without Project             With Project

                                          area         yield       area        yield
                                            ha          t/ha         ha          t/ha

Area cultivable to annual crops               0                        0

Olives                                     296          15.0        296         15.0
Apples                                     281          28.0        281         30.0
Plums                                      426          30.0        426         39.0
Apricots                                   189          30.0        189         35.0
Pears                                      797          26.0        797         30.5
Peaches                                    761          20.0        761         23.0

Total cultivable area                    2,750                    2,750

                          with project = at full development (phased over 5 years)
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Danniyeh scheme is estimated at 24% (base case), which is
somewhat higher that the SAR estimate of 20% despite the downwards adjustment in yields. This is mainly
explained by the fact that secondary and some tertiary canals were rehabilitated under the project over a
larger area than initially envisaged at appraisal. In the SAR, benefits were expected to accrue mainly over
an area of only about 1,700 ha, whereas 2,750 ha were realized under the project. Accordingly, the total
project investment costs also exceed the SAR estimates by about +44% (actual costs of US$ 8.04 million
including construction, studies and supervision, vs. SAR estimate of US$ 5.59 million including
contingencies). The sensitivity analysis indicates that a decrease in benefits by -20% would reduce the ERR
to 20%, whereas a delay of 2 years would reduce it to 18% (15% if reduction and delay are combined).

In the SAR, farm incomes in the Danniyeh scheme were expected to increase by about +24% for small




                                                      - 23 -

farms, +14% for medium farms and +8% for large size farms. Revised ICR estimates indicate an average
increase of about +20% at full development, which is in line with SAR estimates.

In the Akkar El Bared scheme, the project area of about 1,450 ha of cultivable irrigated land is grown
mainly with vegetables (potato, bean, squash, etc.) and citrus. Before the project, farmers in some parts of
the scheme had difficulties in getting irrigation water for their summer production, due to losses in the
conveyance system. The project's rehabilitation works have significantly improved the availability and
reliability of water supply throughout the project area. As expected in the SAR, this is having a positive
impact mainly on cropping intensities for vegetables production. Improved availability and reliability of
water supply also encourage farmers to invest in intensive greenhouse production (zucchini, tomato,
cucumber, etc.), which enables them to benefit from the seasonality of market prices. Except for citrus, the
project is not expected to have a significant impact on yields, as farmers have a strategy of adjusting crop
areas according to water availability. Based on SAR estimates and information from AUB's recent
assessment conducted under the TTE component, the following estimates of cropping patterns and yields
are used in the ICR revised economic analysis:


                                                   Akkar El Bared

                                       Without Project             With Project

                                          area        yield        area       yield
                                            ha         t/ha         ha         t/ha

Vegetables (potatoes)                    1,116         30.0       1,395        30.0

Total cropped area                       1,116                    1,395
Area cultivable to annual crops          1,073                    1,073
Cropping intensity                      104%                      130%

Citrus                                     377         15.0         377        18.0

Total cultivable area                    1,450                    1,450

                         with project = at full development (phased over 5 years)

The economic rate of return (ERR) for the Akkar scheme is estimated at 23% (base case), which is in line
with the SAR estimate of 24%. At appraisal, it was expected that the benefits would accrue mainly over an
area of about 800 ha, whereas 1,450 ha were rehabilitated under the project. Accordingly, the total project
investment costs exceed the SAR estimates by about +47% (actual costs of US$ 3.08 million including
construction, studies and supervision, vs. SAR estimate of US$ 2.09 million including contingencies). The
sensitivity analysis indicates that a decrease in benefits by -20% would reduce the ERR to 19%, whereas a
delay of 2 years would reduce it to 17% (14% if reduction and delay are combined). Assuming that the
cropping intensity would reach only 115% at full development instead of 130%, the ERR would be reduced
to 16%.

In the SAR, farm incomes in the Akkar scheme were expected to increase by about +52 to 54% for all farm
sizes. Revised ICR estimates indicate an average increase of about +30% at full development. This is lower
than the SAR estimate mainly due to more conservative assumptions on cropping intensities at full
development (130% in the ICR, vs. 150% in the SAR). This is compensated by the fact that benefits accrue
over a larger area than planned at appraisal.

In the South Bekaa scheme, the project's works have increased the availability of surface irrigation water



                                                     - 24 -

over a total cultivable area of about 1,900 ha (gross area 2,000 ha), which is resulting in the following
main benefits: (i) a decreased reliance on water supplied by private pumps, with corresponding reductions
in on-farm irrigation costs; (ii) a shift in cropping patterns towards more valuable crops with higher water
requirements than cereals; and (iii) a gradual increase in cropped areas and cropping intensities, together
with increased incentives for landowners to farm their own land (rather than renting it out to owners of
wells and pumps). Only modest yield increases are expected as a result of the project, since many farmers
irrigate from private pumps with advanced techniques and crop yields before the project are already
relatively high. Based on recent data from LRA and actual results observed in 2002 and 2003, cropping
patterns and yields without the project and expected changes over the next few years are estimated as
follows:


                                                     South Bekaa

                                        Without Project           With Project

                                           area        yield       area         yield
                                             ha         t/ha         ha          t/ha

Cereals                                     868           4.0       922           4.3
Vegetables (broad beans)                    322         12.0        811         13.0
Potatoes                                    663         30.0      1,216         33.0

Total cropped area                        1,853                   2,949
Area cultivable to annual crops           1,843                   1,843
Cropping intensity                        101%                    160%

Fruit trees                                   57                     57

Total cultivable area                     1,900                   1,900

                         with project = at full development (phased over 5 years)
The resulting economic rate of return (ERR) for the South Bekaa scheme is estimated at 13% (base case).
This is lower than the SAR estimate of 16%, mainly due to the fact that the project investment costs exceed
SAR estimates by about +27% (actual costs of US$ 17.26 million including construction, studies and
supervision, vs. SAR estimate of US$ 13.54 million including contingencies). However, part of the
investments in head structures (e.g. pumping station, high voltage transmission line, main canal) made
under this phase 1 of the South Bekaa project have been dimensioned to serve additional areas of about
6,700 ha to be developed under phase 2. Corresponding extra costs amount to US$ 3,68 million for which
benefits are not included in the economic analysis. If these costs are excluded from the economic analysis,
the ERR for phase 1 of the South Bekaa scheme is re-estimated at 17%, which would be reduced to about
13% with a decrease in benefits by -20% or a delay of 2 years. This shows that the ERR of the South
Bekaa scheme, although relatively modest, is quite resistant to deviations from the base case assumptions.
In particular, the temporary setback that LRA had to face in 2002/03 (technical problems leading to a
decline in farmers' subscriptions to irrigation water services in 2003) does not jeopardize the viability of
this scheme in the medium term, to the extent that these difficulties are now resolved and farmers'
subscriptions are expected to pick up again in 2004.

In the SAR, farm incomes in the South Bekaa scheme were expected to increase by about +200% for all
farm sizes. Revised ICR estimates indicate an average increase of +185% at full development, which is in
line with SAR estimates. Increases in farm incomes are substantially higher than in other schemes, mainly
because project investments in South Bekaa involve not only rehabilitation but also completion of the
irrigation network to extend it to additional areas. This also contributes to significantly higher investment



                                                      - 25 -

costs per hectare in South Bekaa compared to other schemes. Substantial additional social benefits are
expected from the project in the South Bekaa scheme, as small land owners now have an incentive to invest
and farm their land directly, rather than rent it out or be dependent on private owners of wells and pumping
facilities.

The overall rate of return of the project, based on aggregate results of the five main schemes as indicated
in above section A, is estimated at 23%. This is somewhat higher than the SAR estimate, mainly due to the
more favorable results in Qasmieh and Danniyeh schemes. The project is expected to generate a net present
value (NPV) of US$ 32.26 million discounted at the opportunity cost of capital of 12%. A -20% decrease
in benefits would reduce the overall ERR to 18%, whereas a two-year delay in benefits would reduce it to
17% (13% if reduction and delay are combined).




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Identification:               4     TL, AE, IR, AG
              July 1993
              Preparation: 1/
              Sept./Oct. 1993

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Pre-appraisal/Ap              6     AE, IR, AG, E, AG, RF
              praisal:
              Feb./March 1994

 Supervision
              08/03/1994                    3     AE, AG, IR                          S              HS
              11/22/1994                    3     AE, AG, IR                          S              HS
              03/06/1995                    4     AE, AG, IR, IS                      S              HS
              07/22/1995                    2     AE, IR                              S               S
              02/08/1996                    2     AE, IR                              S               S
              07/20/1996                    2     AE, IR                              S               S
              12/10/1996                    1     AE                                  S               S
              05/05/1997                    4     AE, AG, IR, AG                      S               S
              06/22/1997                    1     AE                                  S               S
              08/18/1997                    1     IR                                  S               S
              04/26/1998                    1     AE                                  S               S
              06/02/1998                    2     AE, IR                              S               S
              10/21/1998                    2     AE, AG                              S               S
              02/13/1999                    2     AE, IR                              S               S
              06/2501999 (MTR)              4     AE, AG, IR, FM                      S               S
              09/15/1999                    2     AE, IS                              S               S
              12/22/1999                    4     AE, AG, IR, ME                      S               S
              02/15/2001                    4     IR, AE, AS, IR                      S               S
              10/12/2001                    2     IR, AS                              S               S
              04/23/2002                    2     IR, AE                              S               S
              02/14/2003                    2     IR, AS                              S               S
              06/27/2003                    1     IR                                  S               S


 ICR
              12/22/2003                    2     IR, AE                              S               S

AE=Agricultural Economist; AG=Agriculturalist; AS=Agricultural Services Specialist; E=Economist;
FM=Financial Management Specialist; HG=Hydrogeologist; IR=Irrigation Engineer; IS=Institutional
Specialist;
ME=Mechanical Engineer; RD=Rural Development Specialist; S=Sociologist; TL=Team Leader

1/ Government was assisted in the preparation of the project by a FAO/CP preparation mission (IR, E, AG,
IS, HG, S)


                                                  - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               22                           77
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    56                          200
  Supervision                            195                           702
  ICR                                      10                           35
  Total                                  283                          1014




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

A. Aide-mémoire of the Implementation Completion Mission - December 11 to 22, 2003)



                                             Republic of Lebanon
                            Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
                               (IBRD Loan 3769-LE and IFAD Loan 370-LB)
                      Implementation Completion Mission - December 11 to 22, 2003

                                               AIDE-MEMOIRE


                                               INTRODUCTION

1.       A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. Adel Bichara (Task Team Leader) and Ms. Sylvie Tillier
(Senior Agro-Economist ­ FAOCP) visited the Republic of Lebanon from December 11 to 22, 2003 to
conduct the Implementation Completion mission related to the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization
Project (IRMP). The objective of the mission was to assess the project's achievements, the status of its
implementation and the sustainability of the project's impact. As the current IBRD loan is to close by
December 31, 2003, issues related to the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) were
discussed with all interested parties.

2.       The mission worked closely with staff of the Council of Development and Reconstruction (CDR),
the Ministry of Energy and Water (MOEW), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Litani River
Authority (LRA). The mission had the privilege of meeting with H.E. the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Aly
Khalil, with Mr. Nasser Nasrallah, President and Director General of the Litani River Authority (LRA) and
Dr. Fadi Comair, Director General of Hydraulics Resources at the Ministry of Energy and Water
(MOEW). The mission also visited the works related to Package N3 at Feneideq-Mechmech and Akkar el
Attiqa. The mission would like to thank all the above persons for their courtesies and assistance.

3.        The mission held its final wrap-up meeting with the CDR, MOEW, MOA and LRA staff on
December 22, 2003. The mission would like to express its thanks and appreciation to all the above for the
close cooperation extended to it during the last few years and particularly to Mr. Said Bitar, Head of the
Irrigation Service at MOEW and his technical staff, to LRA technical staff and to the staff of MOA Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by Miss. Yolla Ghorra as well as to Mrs. Rima Yaktin and Mr.Fadi
Saadeh who gave up much of their time to moving the project forward. This Aide-Mémoire summarizes the
mission's findings and recommendations which are presented in the following paragraphs.

                                      SUMMARY OF THE SITUATION

4.       The IBRD loan (US$ 57.23 million) was declared effective in February 1995. Its original closing
date was June 30, 2001, but was later extended to December 31, 2003. So far the amount disbursed under
the loan stands at about US$51.0 million (90% of the loan). At present all of the IBRD loan is committed
and it is anticipated that all civil works contracts would be completed by the project closing date except for
Packages N3 and S (83% completion) and that about US$56.5 million of the loan would be disbursed
before April 30, 2004. The IFAD loan (SDR6.70 million equivalent to US$9.0 million) was declared
effective in September 1995. Its original closing date was June 30, 2001, but was later extended twice to
December 31, 2004. So far the amount disbursed from the loan stands at SDR3.5 million equivalent


                                                      - 31 -

US$5.0 million (57% of the loan). It is now expected that not more than 90% of the loan would be
disbursed by the closing date.

5.       The rehabilitation and modernization of the five large schemes of the project, covering some
14,300 ha of irrigated area (Annex 1), are now complete (4,500 ha in Yammouneh, 1,450 ha in Akkar
El-Bared, 2,750 ha in Danniyeh, 3,600 ha in Qasmieh Ras El Ain and 2,000 ha South Bekaa ­ Phase I).

6.       Contracts awarded during the first half of 2001 for all the small and medium schemes (Packages
N1, N2, N3 and S) covering a total area of 11,650 ha have progressed at different speeds. Construction
works related to packages N1 and N2 are complete while Packages N3 and S works will not be completed
by the closing date. In this context, some reinforced concrete works related to several schemes under
Package N3 have not been executed properly. MOEW and CDR are investigating this issue and if any
improper execution took place, the contractor will have to bear the responsibility.

7.       Proper Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the rehabilitated schemes is a condition for
sustainability. Three out of the five large schemes (2 managed by LRA and one by MOEW) have very
good O&M facilities, the other two (under MOEW) need improvements in order to properly undertake the
required O&M. Four out of seventeen small and medium schemes have adequate modalities for O&M,
while the rest still need some efforts from the local water authorities and local committees in order to put in
place better O&M arrangements. However, with the rehabilitation which took place, these authorities and
committees are well aware of their responsibilities as far as maintenance is concerned.

8.       Under the hill-lake and associated irrigation networks component, two contracts were awarded
during the first half of 2001 for the construction of six hill lakes. The actual progress rate still stands at
about 90% (four lakes have now been completed). Remedial works (lining) for the first hill lake,
constructed at Bcharré, have been completed and the lake is now fully functioning. Bidding process related
to the associated irrigation networks has not began. If delayed any further, this might jeopardize the project
component impact.

9.       Two of the three Technology Transfer and Extension (TTE) contracts are ongoing. The one
concerning the small and medium scale Irrigation Schemes (contracted to FAO) has experienced
contractual snags despite being signed for over 4 months. It is now expected that FAO will request a
cancellation of this contract and would instead provide a grant to undertake the original work. The
Yammouneh TTE program has been on-going for the fourth year now. This program is a solid one as it
emphasizes in its approach market-oriented extension, organic or low input agriculture, high-value crop
diversification and efficient use of scarce resources. Concrete results have been achieved in terms of
introducing new crop varieties, organic farming and improved irrigation techniques.

10.      One of the main activities for which the procurement processes have began, but not yet finalized is
related to the recruitment of a lead NGO for the Rural Women Development component (about
US$550,000).

11.      ARIL successfully employed (on a fixed term basis) a number of engineers and technicians with
the financial support of the Project. The mission has been informed that serious steps are now being taken
to recruit those people on a permanent basis so that the sustainability of the project could be assured.

12.      An evaluation of the actual results of the project, focusing on the outcome for farmers (i.e. impact
on agricultural production and farm incomes) has been carried out. In addition, MOEW and LRA have
assembled some data related to irrigated areas, cropped areas and yields for the 3 major schemes and for 2


                                                     - 32 -

small and medium schemes. Evaluation of the impact of the project on agricultural production and incomes,
including a final re-estimation of the project's economic rates of return for the five major schemes, will be
carried out and incorporated in the ICR.

                                           PRESENT SITUATION

                                             IBRD Loan 3769-LE

Status of Five Main Irrigation Schemes

13.      Yammouneh Scheme: The status of the Yammouneh scheme (4,500 ha) is as follows: All works
have been completed and handed over in December 2001. The total costs for the scheme were about
US$7.5 million of which US$6.0 million were from the IBRD loan. The cost of studies and supervision for
the scheme is US$ 0.76 million.

14.       Akkar El Bared Scheme: The status of the Akkar El Bared Scheme (1,450 ha) is as follows: All
works have been completed and handed over in September 2001. The total costs of the scheme were about
US$3.0 million of which US$2.4 million were from the IBRD Loan. The cost of studies, designs and
supervision is US$0.14 million. A protective fence along the course of the main canal is now being erected
at various areas so as to prevent any accidental drowning. Works related to this fence are financed by
MOEW and should be completed in 2004.

15.       Danniyeh Scheme: The status of the Danniyeh Scheme (2,750 ha) is as follows: All works have
been completed and the initial reception was undertaken in December 2001. The total cost of the scheme
was about US$6.4 million of which US$5.1 million were from the IBRD Loan. The cost of studies, designs
and supervision was US$0.3 million. The additional contract related to the construction of some
distribution canals (US$1.25 million) have been completed in November 2003.

16.       Qasmieh Ras El Ain (QRA) Scheme: The status of the QRA Scheme (3,600 ha) is as follows:

- Total current civil works contract cost is US$8.10 million from which US$6.5 million has been disbursed
from the IBRD Loan. All works are complete and the final reception was carried out in December 2001.
During testing, the main canal overtopped its banks in several segments. The contractor selected for
executing the required remedial works (US$0.16 million) has started the works which should be completed
by December 31, 2003 LRA own resources will be used for financing this additional contract. The total
costs of the studies, design and construction supervision amounted to approx. US$0.5 million.
- It was noted back in February 2003 that sewerage water was dumped in the canals at six locations. LRA
has, with the help of the European Commission Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO), completed the diversion
of sewerage water at three locations and will request ECHO help for the remaining locations. LRA has
informed the mission that it is still planning to erect the required some protective fences along the course of
the canal.
- As far as water quality monitoring is concerned, the mission once more suggests that this should be
undertaken routinely. The laboratory proposed for the Research Station at Kherbet Kanafer could be an
ideal solution.
- Procurement of required O&M equipment for Qasmieh Ras El Ain as well as South Bekaa schemes
(backhoe, tractors, tippers, skid steers) and double-cabin vehicles has initially experienced long delays.
However, all equipment will be handed over to LRA before the end of this year. Total cost of those
equipment is about US$0.4 million.



                                                      - 33 -

17.       South Bekaa Phase I Scheme: The status of the South Bekaa I Irrigation Scheme (2,000 ha) is as
follows:

- Total current civil works contract is about US$16.0 million of which about US$13.0 million have been
disbursed from the IBRD Loan. Last year, excessive water hammer caused some pipes to burst. It was
agreed with the LRA management that remedial works, which include installing additional pressure and air
relief valves were necessary. These remedial works, approved by the Bank and CDR, costing about US$0.8
million were completed April 2003. The total costs of consulting services related to the studies, the designs
and supervision of construction amounted to approximately US$1.3 million.
- LRA will finance from its own resources some additional works: replacement of worn joints at some
canals stretches, construction of 3 road bridges and benchmarking of the expropriation limits (costs:
US$0.35 million). Bid opening date for the contract related to the above works is set for December 19,
2003 (contract duration is 6 months).

The Small and Medium Schemes :

18.      The rehabilitation and modernization of the Small and Medium Schemes covering about 11,650 ha
of irrigated areas stand as follows:

(i)      N1 contract covers the Laboueh (2,080 ha) and Marjhine (160 ha) schemes (contract price
US$2.6 million). Execution of the works is complete at Laboueh. However at Marjhine due to problems
related to the practical arrangements related to the participation of the various social groups in the
execution of the works, the contractor could only execute two main canals. Due to the seriousness of the
situation and to local constraints, it was agreed to stop the remaining works and to transfer the remaining
funds (US$0.3 million) to the Laboueh scheme where some additional irrigation canals are required.

(ii)     N2 contract covers the schemes of Tannourine, Bcharré and Kfarhalda (total area 1,250 ha ­
contract price US$5.4 million). The execution of works is complete (including the additional works at
Kfarhalda).

(iii)    N3 contract covers the schemes of Feneideq-Mechmech, Akkar el Attiqa, Bouquaiaa, Mashta
Hassan/Mashta Hammoud/Shadra and Minnieh (total area of 4,680 ha ­ contract price US$7.8 million).
The average progress rate of this package stands at about 80%, nevertheless three schemes have been
totally completed. This slow rate is mainly due the fact that some of the beneficiaries expressed a
preference for using open canals in most areas instead of the pipelines originally proposed by the
consultant. The consultant was requested to undertake the necessary design changes which resulted in an
increase of about US$75,000 in his contract price. By April 30, 2004, it is expected that no more than 85
% of the works would be completed. Nevertheless, there are some serious concrete quality issue in
segments of the completed canals. MOEW and CDR requested the consultants to prepare a report on the
matter in order to determine the extent of the problem and to request the contractor to repair any segments
of the canals which were not executed according to the contract's specifications (para 23).

(v) S contract (South Lebanon) covers the schemes of Basqinta-Sannine, Kfar Zebiane, Aqoura-Laqlouq,
Barouk, Naba'a el Safa, Iqlim El Touffah and El Hasbani/El Meri (total area of 3,486 ha - contract price
US$4.5 million). The average progress rate for this package is still low and stands (approx. 80% including
the tertiary canals and works completed by the municipalities). The delay is mainly due to the severe
climatic conditions which prevailed in the first 3 of these schemes, to some design changes requested by the
beneficiaries, and finally to the weakness of the contractor. It is expected now that not more than 85% of



                                                      - 34 -

the works would be completed by April 2004. The quality of works related to this scheme is acceptable.

19.       Out of the seven perimeters to be modernized under Package S, two perimeters (Iqlim El Touffah
­ 320 ha and El Hasbani/El Meri ­ 250 ha) fall under the jurisdiction of the LRA. The situation regarding
the works is as follows:

- Iqlim El Touffah: Progress rate is still very low (around 47%). The delay is mainly due to early
disagreement between beneficiaries and consultant (location of some irrigated areas and open channels
versus piped sections) as well as to contractor weakness.

- El Hasbani/El Meri: Progress rate is again still very low (around 51%). The delay is mainly due to the
rejection by the beneficiaries of the reduced cross-sections for the main canals and to contractor weakness.
A compromise was reached late last year whereby the height of the canals sections is to be increased by
0.10 m.

20.      Financial Status of IBRD Loan: As of December 1, 2003, total disbursement from the IBRD loan
stood at about US$51.4 million, representing about 90% of the loan. It is expected that by April 30, 2004,
not more than US$ 56.5 million of the IBRD Loan would be disbursed.

Institutional Reform of the Water Sector

21.      The mission, once more, would like to stress the importance of ensuring that proper interim
arrangements for Operation and Maintenance (O&M) are put in place. Out of 5 large and 17 small/medium
schemes, 3 large (Qasmieh Ras El Ain, South Bekaa and Danniyeh) and 4 small/medium schemes have
very good O&M modalities. It is therefore important to improve the O&M of the remaining schemes by
starting the process of introducing, in collaboration with the existing new Water Authorities, the Regional
Water Authorities, the Local Committees and the farmers' groups, the idea of the creation of formal Water
Users' Associations in these schemes. Nevertheless, with the rehabilitation which took place, the present
regional authorities and local committees are well aware of their responsibilities as far as maintenance is
concerned.

Other Items

22.      After reviewing the CDR decisions concerning Variation Orders for consultancy services related to
the supervision of construction for Package N3 and S and taking into consideration previous approvals by
the Bank, the mission has no objection to the:

a) Variation Order No 3 for the supervision of Package N3 works as follows: Extending the consultant
(Jouzy & Partners/Haskoning BV) contract from August 31, 2003 to November 30, 2003 with an
additional sum of US$38,010.00 (thirty eight thousand ten United States Dollars).

b) Variation Order No 2 for the supervision of Package S works as follows: Extending the consultant
(Société du Canal de Provence member of Gersar/Cadres) contract from June 15, 2003 to October 31,
2003 with an additional sum of US$58,686.00 (fifty eight thousand six hundred eighty six United States
Dollars).

c) Package N3: The Bank has no objection to increasing the total amount of Package N3 contract to US$
8,285,782 in order to take into account the final re-measurement exercise.




                                                     - 35 -

Site Visit

23.      The mission visited sites at Feneideq-Mechmech and Akkar el Attiqa schemes (Package N3) and
had the opportunity to inspect the quality of works at several sites in both schemes. The mission had the
following observations:

- Feneideq-Mechmech: It was reported by MOEW engineer that: a) the during the last 3-4 months the
contractor did not use proper reinforcement for the canals sections and used in some canals lengths the
wrong mixture of aggregate and sand; and b) there are some locations where the civil works have to be
repaired. The mission, after visiting the scheme, requested the following: a) the Consultant to inspect the all
reinforced concrete (RC) canals and determine the extent of the problems mentioned under point (a). The
contractor, as well as the Consultant Engineer, have to bear the responsibility for any works which were
not executed according the proper specifications; and b) the contractor to repair any damaged works prior
to the reception of the works.

- Akkar el Attiqa: Again it was reported by MOEW engineer that during the last 3-4 months the contractor:
a) did not use proper reinforcement for canals sections; b) used in some canals lengths the wrong mixture
of aggregate and sand; and c) did not use a proper blinding concrete layer under the canals RC sections.
The mission after visiting the scheme requested the following: a) the Consultant to inspect the RC canals
and determine the extent of the problems mentioned under the above three points. The contractor, as well as
the Consultant Engineer, have to bear the full responsibility for any works which were not executed
according to specifications.

                                             IFAD Loan 370-LB

A.       Hill Lakes and Associated Irrigation Networks

24.      The contract for Lot A (Bekaa-Safrine, Bkoufa and Mechmech ­ contract cost approximately
US$0.8 million) was awarded in May 2001 and the one for Lot B (El Hermel, Deir Al Ahmar and
Kfarmechki ­ contract cost approximately US$0.6 million) in July, 2001. Construction supervision for the
six lakes is being carried out by the Arab Organization Agricultural Development (AOAD). The overall
works progress for these hill lakes stands at approximately 90% (four of the lakes Mechmech, Kfarmechki,
Bkoufa and Bekaa Sefrine are completed and awaiting to be received by CDR). All remaining works are
expected to be completed by February 28, 2004

25.      Final designs and bidding documents related to the associated irrigation networks were completed
by 2001. The costs of all six irrigation networks were estimated at about US$ 0.15 million (two contracts).
Construction, originally scheduled to begin in 2002, has been postponed due to delayed completion. The
mission has been informed by both MOA and CDR that the construction of the networks will be added to
the present hill lakes contracts to avoid any lengthy tendering procedures. The mission has no objection to
this proposal. It is now expected that the completion date for the networks would be April 30, 2004.

B.       Technology Transfer and Extension (TTE) Component

26.      TTE Program for Yammouneh Scheme: This is provided by the American University of Beirut
(AUB), is in its 5 year of implementation. It has been a successful program which covered a wide variety of
extension topics and included about 27 on-farm demonstrations and 14 workshops and various training
sessions. The contract with the AUB is scheduled to end by June 30, 2004. The impact of this TTE
program has been particularly substantial is terms of introducing: a) new crop varieties (ex. Wheat with


                                                     - 36 -

100% adoption rate); b) new irrigation techniques (ex. Drip and micro-sprinklers with 70% adoption rates
in adapted areas); c) organic fareming andtechniques (5% adoption rate and new label); d) soil solarization
(10% adoption rate) and e) wild roses as farms boundaries (15% adoption rate).

27.      TTE Program for four Major Schemes: The contract was finally signed this year after extremely
long delays. In December 2002, the AUB was awarded the contract for the four remaining major schemes
and FAO for the small and medium schemes. AUB has so far completed the Need Assessment exercise as
well as the TTE Work Plan and is progressing well with the TTE program itself. The AUB contract is
scheduled to end by June 30, 2004, however, the mission strongly encourages MOA to extend the contract
till IFAD Loan closing date so that tangible results could be attained (additional cost about US$ 0.20
million).

28.      TTE Program for the Small & Medium Schemes: Although FAO has signed the contract with
CDR, it has requested some amendments in the payment modalities so that it can avoid any prior funding of
its activities. Unfortunately, FAO did not yet start its work as stipulated in the contract and both parties are
looking at modialites for the cancellation of this contract. Meanwhile, FAO has decided to provide a grant
to the MOA to complete the proposed works. The mission has been informed that this grant should be
operational not later than March 2004. In this context, and as a complement to FAO grant, MOA
proposes the recruitment of several NGOs on a sole source basis to conduct some of the TTE programs for
some of the small & medium schemes. The mission has no objection in principle to this approach.

29.      Construction of Extension Centers: MOA will not be able to build all the extension centers
envisioned two years gao, basically because obtaining the land as well as the title transfer have proved to
be a lengthy process. Only three centers have been rehabilitated: Sour, Hammana and Abdeh.

C.       Applied Research and Quality Control Component

30.      Civil Works and Equipment: The construction of the Sour station and the rehabilitation of
laboratories at Fanar are now complete. The construction of eight new green houses and the rehabilitation
of another nine has been completed in May 2003. Total costs were about US$0.40 million. All research
equipment were purchased except for one item (Gas spectrometer - cost US$0.08 million). In this respect,
the mission has no-objection to the procurement of this item and to the Bidding Documents as well as the
specifications prepared by both CDR and MOA. There are also some laboratories rehabilitation (about
US$ 0.5 million) still remaining at Tal Amara and Torbol (central, plant breeding, agro-climatology,
rangeland, pomology and irrigation), however, these are expected to be completed by September 30, 2004.

31.      The mission has been informed that 33 research assistants and technicians currently working with
ARIL and financed by the IFAD loan have , after getting the endorsement of H.E. the Minister of
Agriculture, applied for permanent positions with ARIL. The Council of Ministers should soon take a
decision regarding this issue. The sustainability of the Applied Research component depends to a large
extent on the Council decision. The achievements of this group of specialists and technicians in the last few
years were excellent (10 major programs containing 80 themes).

D.       Rural Women Development

32.      Income Generating Activities

i) Mushroom Sub-project (Cost about US$0.06 million). This sub-project is a complex one as it involves



                                                     - 37 -

several stakeholders: women producers in three villages, a cooperative ("El-Reef"), a micro-finance agency,
an input supplier and a marketing agent. The steering committee, required to ensure the coordination of the
stakeholders activities, was established in August 2003. The cooperative has so far: a) initiated the
procedures related to obtaining loans for the beneficiaries from an NGO; b) equipped 16 out of a total of
18 rooms for the mushroom production; c) appointed all required staff; and d) started the training process.
To complete all the foreseen works under this contract, an extension in the contract till December 31, 2004
is envisaged. The mission has no objection to such extension at no additional costs.

ii) Olive Orchard Care and Harvesting Sub-project - Southern Lebanon (Cost about US$ 0.03 million).
This sub-project is implemented in collaboration with an Italian NGO ("Institut pour la Collaboration
Universitaire ­ ICU"). ICU is to train the women and the men in cultural practices to improve fruit quality,
and is also to train the women on improving their techniques of olive pickling. In addition, ICU is to equip a
small center for olive processing that will be run by the women and will help them connect with marketing
opportunities. The contract has effectively started in April 2003. So far the NGO has: a) submitted its work
plan which was approved by MOA; b) selected the four demonstrations plots and the beneficiaries (no 35);
c) rehabilitated the Olive Processing Center; d) completed the procurement process fro the required
equipment; e) started the pickling activities; and e) completed 13 training sessions. It is expected that the
consultancy work would be extended to December 31, 2004. The mission has no objection to such
extension at no additional costs.


iii) Recruitment of a lead NGO. As MOA is not equipped to implement many sub-projects for income
generating activities with small women groups, hence the decision to recruit a lead NGO which will finance
and provide support and technical back up for the implementation of the sub-projects is a sound one. Early
in 2003, five NGOs were short-listed, unfortunately only one has submitted an offer. The CDR opted for
re-bidding and the Bank has conveyed its no-objection to this approach and to the eight short-listed
consultants. It is hoped that the new contract could start before the end of April 2004 so that some tangible
results could be obtained before the IFAD Loan closing date.

33.      Several Income generating activities were successfully executed or are under execution in 15
villages with the participation of communities and NGOs. These are: goat raising (completed), food
processing, production of seedlings (completed), medicinal and culinary herbs production study and
training (completed) and Frick/powdered homos production (completed).

E.       Financial Status

34.      Total IFAD loan is SDR6.7 million equivalent to approximately US$8.8 million taking an average
exchange rate of 1 SDR = 1.32 US$. As of December 1, 2003 the total amount disbursed from the loan
stood at approximately US$5.0 million, distributed as follows (in US$ million):

Component                  Disbursement            SAR Estimates           Total Disbursement
                           IFAD                                            expected till Dec. 04
TTE & SMOA                 1.30                   2.30                     2.1
AR & QC                    2.00                   2.80                     2.8
RW                         0.30                   0.80                     0.9
SSIS                       1.20                   2.90                     2.1
Special Account            0.20                   NA                       -
TOTAL                      5.00                   8.80                     7.9



                                                      - 38 -

35.      Other Items: The mission has no-objection to extending the contract of the following consultants
till December 31, 2004 with the same current monthly salaries:

- Mr. Assad Yazbek.
- Mr. Georges Abou Zgheib.
- Ms. Sallam Ibrahim.
- Ms. Rnada Rahal.
-Ms. Carla Rebehmed.

36.      So far the total commitments under the IFAD loan stand at about US$8.0 million (including
recurrent costs). It is now expected that not more than US$7.9 million or 90% of the total loan would be
disbursed by December 31, 2004.

F.       Evaluation of the Project Impact

37.      The main objectives of the project, as defined in the 1994 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to
increase agricultural production and incomes in the project area. These objectives were to be achieved
through: a) rehabilitation and modernization of surface irrigation infrastructure; b) improved management
of water resources; and c) strengthening of basic agricultural support services including applied research
and extension. Improved availability and reliability of irrigation water were expected to result in increases
in cropping intensities and yields, and a reduction in on-farm irrigation costs. Together with improved use
of production inputs and cultural practices, this would translate into increased agricultural production and
farmers net incomes. At the time, the overall economic rate of return of the project was estimated at 19%
and separately for each of the 5 major schemes from about 16% in Akkar to 30% in Yammouneh.

38.      The final economic re-evaluation of the project will be carried out by the mission after its return to
headquarters and incorporated in the final ICR. Full benefits are not yet achieved for schemes where civil
works have been completed recently and/or where extension services started only a year ago (i.e. schemes
other than Yammouneh). In all cases, an assessment of the present situation will be used as a basis to
re-estimate the benefits expected from the project at full development.

39.      Assessment of the present situation, and comparison with the pre-project situation, will be based on
the data assembled by the mission from a variety of sources. It should be noted that the assessment will be
sometimes limited due to lack of data fro some schemes:

i) LRA (Qasmiyeh and South Bekaa) keeps detailed annual records on the number of irrigating farmers,
plot sizes and irrigation method, and major crops grown on each plot. It also makes estimates of production
costs, yields and revenues per hectare for major crops;

ii) elsewhere in the project, the MOA has not kept systematic records at scheme level on irrigated areas,
areas planted with different types of crops, crop yields or other relevant information (such as irrigation
methods, cultural practices, production costs and farm incomes). The Impact Assessment study carried out
in 2003 gives some useful information. However, it was based on a relatively small sample of farmers due
to lack of time. The type of information presented in the report varies among schemes and no attempt was
made to collect complementary data from other secondary sources, so that the results cannot really be
generalized. For this reasons, the mission met with the AUB and field staff of MOA involved in the TTE
component in order to obtain further information related to the other 3 large schemes; and

iii) in 2002, MOEW conducted field interviews upon IBRD request in several schemes, specifically aimed



                                                     - 39 -

at assessing changes in cropping intensities and yields as a result of rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure. This work could not completed on all selected schemes and was carried out with limited
means, but provides useful information. It is unfortunately the only attempt, outside of LRA, to provide a
quantified estimate of the impact of the project on crop areas, yields and intensities at scheme level, and to
compare it with assumptions made at the time of appraisal and feasibility studies.

40.     Impact on Individual Schemes :

- Yammouneh (cost US$ 1,664 per hectare). It is estimated that only around 20% of the area of the scheme
benefited from surface irrigation before the project's rehabilitation works, due to deteriorated
infrastructure. The full area is now served by rehabilitated canals. As anticipated at appraisal, water
resources are scarce during the dry season which limits the scope for double-cropping. Available
information indicates that the project had a positive impact on yields of cereals and, to a lesser extent,
potatoes and cropping intensity, together with a decrease in reliance on pumped underground water.
- Qasmiyeh (cost US$ 2,239 per hectare). I\Improved distribution and management of water resources has
contributed to substantial increases in banana and citrus yields. Farmers are increasingly adopting
water-saving techniques (drip irrigation) and developing the production of bananas with introduction of
new varieties. Water charges recovered by LRA presently cover and exceed full O&M costs.
- Danniyeh (cost US$ 2,784 per hectare). The project is expected to contribute to significant increases in
yields of fruit trees, as a result of improved reliability of irrigation water and gradual introduction of
improved crop husbandry practices.
- Akkar (cost US$ 2,031 per hectare). The project is estimated to contribute to increases in yields of citrus
and cropping intensity for horticulture production. Improved and more reliable water availability foster the
development of intensive greenhouse production, enabling farmers to benefit from the seasonality of market
prices.
- South Bekaa (cost US$ 7,975 per hectare or US$ 6,136/ha excluding costs related to Phase 2). It is
expected that the project will result in a decreased reliance on groundwater pumped by private pumps, with
a substantial increase in cropping intensities and incentives for landowners to farm their own land (rather
than renting it out to owners of wells and pumps).

Performance Indicators

41.     The Project's Performance Indicators are shown in Annex 2.




                                                       - 40 -

         ANNEX 1: CONTRACTS AND VARIATION ORDERS (May 2003)



SCHEME         Contract/VO     Cost US$ mil.    Purpose         Completion %
Yammouneh      Consultant: Dar Agency:          Contractor:     Average = 100
(4,500 ha)     Al Handasah     MOEW             Impressem and
               Nazih Taleb                      Bacto
               Contract        4.8              -               100
               VO 1            0.02             Excav. Works    100
               VO 2            1.2              Chute           100
               VO 3            0.1              Road            100
               VO 4            0.3 + 1.0=1.4   Ouassa Net. + Re 100
                                               measure
Qasmieh Ras al Consultant:     Agency: LRA     Contractor:      Average = 100
Ain (3,600 ha) CADRES                          Commodore
                                               Contracting
               Contract        6.9              -               100
               VO1             0.8              Roads           100
               VO2             0.2              Add. Areas      100
               VO3             0.1              Mechanical
Akkar El Bared Consultant:     Agency;          Contractor:     Average = 100
(1,450 ha)     Dar Al          MOEW             Homan Eng.
               Handasah Nazih                   Company
               Taleb
               Contract        2.8             -                100
South Bekaa I  Consultant:     Agency:          Contractor:     Average = 100
(2,000)        CADRES          LRA              Butec s.a.l.
               Contract        11.9             -               100
               VO1             0.9             Add. works       100
               VO2             2.4             Networks+misc    100
               VO3             0.8              Add. works      100
Danniyeh       Consultant: Dar Agency:          Contractor:    Average = 100
(2,800 ha)     Al Handasah     MOEW             Commodore
               Nazih Taleb                      Contracting
               Contract        6.4              -               100
                Additional     1.25             Convey. canals  100
                contract

Continued:

SCHEME         Contract/VO     Cost US$ mil.    Purpose         Completion %
Package N1     Consultant:     Agency:          Contractor:    Average = 100
(2,240 ha)     Jouzy-Haskonin  MOEW             Estephan
               g JV                             Company
                                                Contracting and



                                        - 41 -

                                                  Trading
             Contract          2.4                -            100
             VO 1             0.2                 -            100
             VO 2             (0.3) Not additional             100
Package N2   Consultant:      Agency: MOEW        Contractor:  Average = 100
(1,150 ha)   Jouzy-Haskoning                      Homan
             JV                                   Engineering
                                                  Company
             Contract         5.3                              100
             VO 1             0.14                             100
Package N3   Consultant:      Agency: MOEW        Contractor:  Average = 85
(4,680 ha)   Jouzy-Haskoning                      Tajj Et.
             JV
             Contract         7.8                 -            85
             VO 1             0.02                             85
Package S    Consultant:      Agency:             Contractor:  Average = 80
(3,486 ha)   Cadres-Canal de MOEW                 Khoury
             Provence (Gersar)                    Contracting
             JV                                   Company
             Contract         4.5                 -            80
             VO 1             0.4                              80
Hill Lake    Consultant:      Agency:             Contractor:  Average = 100
(Bcharré)    GP               MOA                 M. Abdallah
             Contract         0.3                 -            100
Hill Lakes   Consultant:      Agency:             Contractor:  Average = 90
Lot 1        AOAD             MOA                 Mohammad
                                                  Danash
             Contract         0.6                 -            90
             VO 1             0.3                              90
Hill Lakes   Consultant:      Agency:             Contractor:  Average = 90
Lot 2        AOAD             MOA                 Mohammad
                                                  Danash
             Contract         0.4                               90
             VO 1              0.3                              90




                                         - 42 -

         ANNEX 3 : PROJECT'S PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (May 2003)




INPUT INDICATORS




Indicator                                            SAR      Present (Underway)

1. Total Disbursement (US$ million)
        WB                                           57.0            51.0
        IFAD                                         9.0             4.6
        GOL                                          13.4            11.0

2. Rehabilitated Areas   (ha)                        26,000          23,400

3. Cons.& Rehab. of 5 Laboratories (m2)              2,250           250 (2,000)

4. Construction of Hill Lakes (1000 m3)              775             446 (136)

5. Cons. & Rehab. of Extension Off. (m2)             1,000           730

6. Cons. & Rehab. of 17 Green and Glass Houses (m2)  3,000           4,278

7. Technical Assistance (MM)
        MOEW                                         87              610
        RWA                                          229             0
        LRA                                          51              158
        MOA                                          222             1914
        GP                                           24              NA

8. Training (MW)
        MOEW                                         95              10
        RWA                                          57              0
        LRA                                          56              37
        MOA                                          68              2
        GP                                           86              NA




                                               - 43 -

OUTPUT INDICATORS*

Indicator                         SAR Before              SAR Target       Present

1. Yields (t/ha)
        Yammouneh
                 Wheat            1.8                     3.5              3.5
                 Potatoes         20.0                    25.5             33.0
        Qasmiyeh Ras El Ein
                 Bananas          18.0                    20.0             34.0
                 Citrus           12.0                    14.4             24.0
        Denniyeh
                 Apples           38.0*                   41.0*            18.0
                 Peaches30.0*                     35.0*               22.0
                 Pears            36.0*                   42.0*            30.0
        Akkar Al Bared
                 Citrus           15.0                    18.0             18.0
                 Potatoes         30.0                    30.0             33.0
        South Bekaa
                 Potatoes         23.0                    26.0             33.0
                 Wheat            4.5                     5.3              5.0
                 Broadbeans       10.0                    11.5             11.5

2. Cropping Intensities (%)
        Yammouneh                 75                      109              120
        Qasmiyeh Ras El Ein       152                     203              105
        Denniyeh                  100                     100              100
        Akkar Al Bared            104                     150              130
        South Bekaa               57                      115              115

3. Cropped Areas (ha)
        Yammouneh                 4,500                   4,500            4,500
        Qasmiyeh Ras El Ein       3,850                   3,800            3,600
        Denniyeh                  4,800                   4,800            3,000
        Akkar Al Bared            1,600                   1,600            1,450
        South Bekaa               2,000                   2,000            2,000
        Small& Medium             NAV                     10,000           10,000
                 Total            NAV                     26,700           24,550
Notes:

Yields figures are to be further checked during the coming 6 months.
NA = not applicable
NAV = not available
* = figures which proved to be highly inflated.




                                                    - 44 -

B.  Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) ­ December 2003

                          Implementation Completion Report

                                   Republic of Lebanon

           Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project

                              (Loan no. 3769 LE and 370 LB)

                                     Table of Contents

BACKGROUND...............................................................................................
46

2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION......................................................
47
  2.1- Project Objectives:....................................................................................
  47
  2.2- Project Description:...................................................................................
  47

3. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION.........................................................
48

4. PROJECT TURNS OUT (IMPACTS):..................................................................
49

5. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP..............................................................................
51
  5.1- Bank Performance:....................................................................................
  51
  5.2- Borrower Performance:...............................................................................
  52

6.LESSONS LEARNED:....................................................................................
52

7.COMMITMENTS INFORMATION....................................................................53

8. ANNEXES..................................................................................................56
  8.1- IRMP General Performance Indicators.................................
  ..............................566
     A- Input Indicators:.................................................................................



                                                  - 45 -

  .......5656
  B- Output Indicators:....................................................................................
  ...57

8.2- Project Cost & Financing...............................................................................
58




                                             - 46 -

                         Implementation Completion Report
                                   Republic of Lebanon

            Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project

                            (Loan no. 3769 LE and 370 LB)



1.      BACKGROUND


1.1     After almost twenty years of devastation and turmoil resulting from violent civil strife, the
Government of Lebanon (GoL) envisaged a phased strategy for rebuilding the ravaged economy
and addressing social needs.
The Lebanese agriculture had been adversely affected during the war by the loss of export
markets, the elimination of public services, the displacement of rural population and by the neglect
and destruction occurring to public irrigation infrastructure.

1.2     The total annual rainfall in Lebanon amounts to about 9,700 million cubic meters, which
are differently distributed among the seasons and regions. Seasonal and regional factors, as well as
the limited capacity of water storage led to a relative lack of water. The lack of water storage
induced different cropping patterns within the various Lebanese agricultural communities. Almost
35% of Lebanon's agricultural surfaces are irrigated while the rest is rain fed.

1.3     Even though the latest surveys indicated that agricultural labor decreased from 38% of the
total labor force in 1969 to around 10% in the 1990s, agriculture remains an important source of
income in rural communities. In the early nineties, the general existing irrigation network has
essentially been unchanged since the 1970s. Around 60,000 ha of the actually irrigated area were
fed by surface water and the remainder from groundwater extracted from private wells. The
irrigation networks consist of either small diversion weirs on rivers and streams or direct off takes
from springs and streams with a conveyance through open concrete-lined main canals and earth or
concrete secondary canals.      The poor state of the Irrigation infrastructure and inadequate
resources distribution management and supply limited the potential of efficient use and
distribution of available water resources.

1.4     In 1994, the GoL signed two loan agreements (with the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), on a parallel basis) aiming for the Rehabilitation & Modernization of the
irrigation sector in Lebanon to revitalize irrigation practices and improve resources use efficiency.
IBRD loan (IRMP 3769 LE) would cover eligible costs resulting from irrigation networks
rehabilitation and modernization works (Study & Design, Civil Works, Supervision and Project
Facilities), while IFAD funding would be confined to "downstream" activities, focusing on



                                                 - 47 -

activities within the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The IFAD loan (370 LB)
will constitute an integral part of the World Bank-IRMP components and complement the
interventions financed by the World Bank.


2.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION


2.1     Project Objectives


The main objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production, agriculture-based
income and employment in previously neglected rural areas and achieve a sustainable and
improved management of water resources, through the rehabilitation of an adequate Operation &
Maintenance of surface irrigation infrastructure and the provision of basic agricultural support
services.

2.2     Project Description


The project, as it was appraised, consisted of the following components:

2.2.1 Selection of surface irrigation infrastructure for rehabilitation and modernization works:
        Feasible irrigation schemes were selected in order to address social needs and
        environmental concerns covering an area of about 28,000 ha. Infrastructure rehabilitation
        works were split into two groups according to socioeconomic priorities, readiness for
        implementation and absence of resettlement or riparian issues:
-       The first group consisted of five large schemes totaling about 17,200ha.
-       The second group consisted of a program of small and medium schemes serving about
11,000ha.

2.2.2 Execution of civil works including:
        (i)   Rehabilitation and/or construction of headwork (spring captage, river intakes,
              reservoirs, pumping stations, service roads...),
        (ii)  Repairing and/or lining of concrete canal networks,
        (iii) Installation and/or replacement of pipe networks and related structures,
        (vi) Supply of needed water control equipment

2.2.3 Institutional strengthening for public institutions involved in irrigation, water
        management and project implementation:

(i)   Provision of Support for MEW and LRA to supervise and control execution of studies and
      construction work, MOA's Green Plan to strengthen present capacity to implement small
      schemes and RWIA and RW and Water User's Associations who would be involved in the
      detailed design of the rehabilitation works and responsible for O&M.
      The intended support includes the procurement of necessary office equipment and vehicles,



                                                 - 48 -

       the rehabilitation of offices, the recruitment of qualified technical assistance, technical
       trainings and workshops.
(ii)   Environmental Monitoring that would strengthen MEW and LRA capability to monitor
       the quality of groundwater aquifers and the gathering and interpretation of hydrological data
       in the project area by providing laboratory, hydrometric, office equipment, vehicles and
       needed studies for both MEW's Hydrological Department and LRA's Department of Water
       Resources.
 (iii) Agricultural Services: the project will finance on-station applied research conducted by
      ARIL that would focus on subjects dealing with verification trials for new cereals,
      vegetables and tree crops varieties, plant disease control, irrigation techniques as well as
      control of agricultural inputs and pesticides residues to insure control regulations, sample
      collection and field inspection. To enable ARIL to undertake those activities, the project will
      finance the construction and rehabilitation of laboratories and greenhouses, supply of
      laboratory equipment, vehicles, staff training, long-term technical assistance and short-term
      consultancies.
      On another hand, in order to insure that expected project benefits are reached, the project
      would finance demand-driven Technology Transfer Extension (TTE) services specific to
      each of the irrigation schemes rehabilitated. It would include improvement of on-farm
      irrigation techniques, integrated pest management and also women income generating
      activities.
      The TTE activities were financed through a TTE facility under the control of MOA. As for
      the expenses related to the extension staff operation, the project will finance a long-term
      consultant in charge of planning and monitoring, provide needed equipment and vehicles,
      training and operation costs.


3.       PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION


3.1      The project concept originated following the fifteen years of war devastation resulting
from the civil strife in Lebanon and the lack of maintenance of the existing irrigation schemes
whose network had been essentially unchanged since the 1970s. This same network serves
around 10 medium and large schemes and 50 small ones covering around 87,000ha of which
hardly 30% were irrigated under modern or semi modern techniques. The poor state of irrigation
infrastructure of these schemes induced urgent rehabilitation and modernization due to aging
factor, inadequate management and lack of maintenance that were causing high percentages of
losses and low efficiency.

3.2      The IRMP was managed by CDR who have, at all times, the overall supervision
responsibility for managing and implementing the Project, including responsibility for the
procurement and disbursement processed under the Project and the maintenance of the project's
accounts.
The project implementation of the World Bank financed project was carried out by MEW assisted
by the Water Sector Implementation Unit (WSIU) and LRA, while MOA carried out the IFAD
part.
On the other hand the GoL launched a new water management structure preparing a National



                                                - 49 -

Water Resources Administration Master Plan. Therefore, the budgets reserved under IRMP, for
MOA, RWA and WUA, were reallocated to finance additional requested essential civil works
caused by the deterioration of networks between the assessment period and the execution phase.

3.3     In an initial identification mission in July 1993, and subsequently, in the preparation
mission of October 1993, the Bank jointly with FAO/CP selected six irrigation schemes from the
government's proposed priorities based on intensity of war damages and social priorities. The
feasibility studies for these schemes were prepared by local consultant and reviewed by the
appraisal mission who judged five of these schemes feasible and included them in the project.
At the same time, a local consultant carried out Rapid Initial Assessments for 28 schemes. Out of
these schemes, about 17, covering 11,000ha were selected for financing under the same
component.


4. PROJECT TURN OUTS (IMPACTS)

4.1     As foreseen in the IRMP original design, even though it is still early to judge the revenue
rate of the project's implementation due to the short operation period after the execution
completion (especially in SMS), the project's works afforded improvements on the general status
of irrigation in the rehabilitated schemes that were noticed after the first irrigation season
following the rehabilitation works. Some modifications were found necessary during
implementation due to changing requirements and priorities. The flexibility of the World Bank
supervision team in respect to these changes and requests enabled the optimum use of resources
under the project to respond to urgent requirements.

4.2     The major recorded advantages and turn outs are:
        -      Considerable reduction of water losses during conveyance,
        -      Water availability in the relatively distant scheme's sections,
        -      Conveyance duration control,
        -      Extension of water availability during needy season,
        -      Improvement in equity during distribution relatively to needs,
        -      Improvement of modern irrigation practices,
        -      Reduction of water quantity need/irrigated ha,
        -      Increase of agricultural production and revenue/unit of irrigated land,
        -      Promotion of agricultural employment and activities in rural areas,
        -      Increase of irrigated surfaces and intensification possibilities,
        -      Water charge in some schemes is covering 100% recurrent cost of O&M,
-       Reduction in the overuse of ground water (over pumping),
-       Adoption of improved agricultural techniques,
-       And improved production quality.

4.3     On the social and economical level, the project's implementation afforded more stability to
rural regions where the increase of farmers' average income is progressively improving, due to the
provision of direct accessible cheap water and adoption of improved agricultural techniques.
Subsequently, the reduction of rural exodus towards the cities was noticed and the agricultural



                                                - 50 -

investment promoted.

4.4      Institutional development impact was minimal even though staff trained would open the
way for new ideas especially on reforms on water users associations.

4.5      Demand driven technology transfer extension the services covered an area of 27,000ha.
Services to farmers have exceeded the appraisal target by 48% of the cost. Although
implementation of the major income generating activities was delayed it improved rural women
capacity through training and stimulation of income generating activities.

4.6      Out come of ARIL was successful improved through the provision of the technical and
logistic support.

4.7      Construction of 7 hill lakes with a total capacity of 570m3 (against appraisal target
7755,000 m3 for 10 hill lakes)


5.       PROJECT RELATIONSHIP


5.1      Bank Performance


The Bank contributed to the success of the project through offering guidance to the decision
makers in the most critical phases of the IRMP implementation.

The supervision missions worked closely with the staff of IRMP project, reviewing and solving
implementation problems as they arose. The Bank carried out a Mid- Term Review in February
2000, wich enabled the bank and the project staff to take stock of the progress, resolve the
problems, reallocate the project funds and agree on next steps on the implementation program for
the remaining period of the project.

Financing the IRMP is considered a major step in the country reconstruction phased strategy to
rebuild the ravaged economy and address social needs after the Lebanese war. The schemes'
infrastructure rehabilitation was effectively an urgent need for rehabilitation and modernization
after years of absence of maintenance to help in improving the irrigation system efficiency and
subsequently develop the agricultural sector of the country.



5.2      Borrower Performance


In 1996, IRMP works started on the major selected schemes. Both MEW and LRA recruited
qualified Technical Assistance teams in order to support the official staff, assisted by SIU, and to
fulfill project's design and execution supervision. The MOA assigned from her own staff a PCU to
undertake the management of the project execution. After SIU's work contracts were completed,
the MEW Irrigation Department and LRA projects department undertook the direct management


                                                  - 51 -

of the project execution in coordination with CDR.
The delay in the selection of MOA-PCU staff caused a delay in project implementation. The
implementation was later on improved as the IRMP staff gained experience to comply with bank
requirements for ICB tendering procedures and speed up project implementation. CDR had been
ever since undertaking the complete charge of the project's administrative and financial
management.
The borrower was receptive to the supervision mission's technical advice.


6.      LESSONS LEARNED

6.1     Many works were delayed and even unachieved due to various obstacles in decision
making, clearance and contract award resulting from administrative bureaucracy especially those
related to variations orders, redesigns relevant from locals' requests and objection.

6.2     IRMP should have had its own PCU which would have been granted a minimum margin of
decision making in cooperation of the loan agreement defined implementation agency. This way,
many minor delays would've been avoided.

6.3     Installation of water flow control and calibrated outlets would help regulate water supply
and promote the sustainability of the irrigation.

6.4     Council of Development and reconstruction (CDR) internal clearance requirements can
cause unnecessary implementation delays slowing down project advance. Under the project
several variation orders were routinely cleared by CDR and set to IBRD for no-objection resulting
in needles delays. Largely because of these delays, the project finishing date has been delayed.

6.5     Flexibility in implementation has advantages, allowing for adjustment in the investments,
provided they still fitted with project's development objectives. This was applied for lateral
secondary canals, Quasmieh Siphon and associated regulating structure, service road and retaining
walls and the encroachment of the new South Highway with the canal.

6.6     Flexibility in implementation is key to guaranteeing under this type of project. The bank
and implementing agency maintained flexibility in the program to reallocate resources to cover
urgently needed areas, which arose during implementation.

6.7     Project implementation timetable should give full consideration to the length of time
required between board approval and effectiveness because parliament does not often ratify
loan/credit agreements within a short period.

6.8     Project should not include more than one institution, since administrative procedures are
different, consideration should be given to the length of time required for document approval and
processing.




                                                 - 52 -

COMMITMENTS INFORMATION

Table 1 - Allocations by component ­ Comparative table (3769 LE)

Data updated till 30/10/03         SAR Proposed                     Actual
                            Foreign   Local     Total    Foreign    Local     Total
IRMP Totals (*106)           57.197    13.298    70.495    57.535    12.594   70.129
CATEGORY 1                    38.242    9.560     47.802     49.915   12.477   62.392
Qasmieh scheme                  6.087    1.522     7.609      6.451     1.613    8.064
Yammouneh scheme                5.337    1.334     6.671      5.995     1.498    7.493
Danniyeh scheme                 4.242    1.060     5.302      6.124     1.531    7.655
Akkar-Bared scheme              1.595    0.398     1.993      2.356     0.588    2.944
South Bekaa scheme              6.918    1.730     8.648     12.759     3.190   15.949
Small & Medium scheme          13.605    3.401    17.006     16.230     4.057   20.287
MEW Irrigat. Services           0.027    0.007     0.034      0.000     0.000    0.000
Litany River Authority          0.054    0.014     0.068      0.000     0.000    0.000
Agricultural Services           0.377    0.094     0.471      0.000     0.000    0.000
CATEGORY 2                    10.519    0.104     10.623      0.739    0.117    0.856
Qasmieh scheme                  1.350    0.000     1.350      0.000     0.000    0.000
Yammouneh scheme                0.244    0.000     0.244      0.000     0.000    0.000
Danniyeh scheme                 0.267    0.000     0.267      0.000     0.000    0.000
Akkar-Bared scheme              0.142    0.000     0.142      0.000     0.000    0.000
South Bekaa scheme              4.615    0.000     4.615      0.000     0.000    0.000
Small & Medium schs             1.932    0.000     1.932      0.000     0.000    0.000
MEW Irrigat. Services           0.108    0.015     0.123      0.064     0.011    0.075
Litany River Authority          0.276    0.069     0.345      0.614     0.096    0.710
Regional Water Auth.            0.000    0.000     0.000      0.000     0.000    0.000
MEW Hydro. Services             0.104    0.004     0.108      0.034     0.006    0.040
SIU                             0.027    0.007     0.034      0.027     0.004    0.031
Agricultural Services           1.454    0.009     1.463      0.000     0.000    0.000
CATEGORY 3                     8.436    0.000      8.436      6.881    0.000    6.881
Qasmieh scheme                  0.444    0.000     0.444    524.000     0.000    0.524
Yammouneh scheme                0.347    0.000     0.347      0.758     0.000    0.758
Danniyeh scheme                 0.289    0.000     0.289      0.382     0.000    0.382
Akkar-Bared scheme              0.095    0.000     0.095      0.140     0.000    0.140
South Bekaa scheme              0.523    0.000     0.523      0.961     0.000    0.961
Small & Medium schs             0.850    0.000     0.850      2.066     0.000    2.066
MEW Irrigat. Services           1.254    0.000     1.254      0.672     0.000    0.672
Litany River Authority          0.835    0.000     0.835      0.550     0.000    0.550
Regional Water Auth.            0.770    0.000     0.770      0.000     0.000    0.000
MEW Hydro. Services             0.373    0.000     0.373      0.311     0.000    0.311
SIU                             0.192    0.000     0.192      0.000     0.000    0.000
Agricultural Services           2.464    0.000     2.464      0.517     0.000    0.517




                                          - 53 -

                                SAR Proposed                  Actual
                         Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign   Local     Total
CATEGORY 4                  0.000    3.634    3.634    0.000     0.000    0.000
Qasmieh scheme               0.000    0.381    0.381    0.000     0.000    0.000
Yammouneh scheme             0.000    0.459    0.459    0.000     0.000    0.000
Danniyeh scheme              0.000    0.563    0.563    0.000     0.000    0.000
Akkar-Bared scheme           0.000    0.145    0.145    0.000     0.000    0.000
South Bekaa scheme           0.000    0.310    0.310    0.000     0.000    0.000
Small & Medium schs          0.000    0.792    0.792    0.000     0.000    0.000
MEW Irrigat. Services        0.000    0.053    0.053    0.000     0.000    0.000
Litany River Authority       0.000    0.163    0.163    0.000     0.000    0.000
Regional Water Auth.         0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000
MEW Hydro. Services          0.000    0.036    0.036    0.000     0.000    0.000
SIU                          0.000    0.039    0.039    0.000     0.000    0.000
Agricultural Services        0.000    0.693    0.693    0.000     0.000    0.000




                                      - 54 -

Table 2 ­ IBRD Contribution to IRMP Disbursments Comparative Percentage Plans
by Fiscal Year (3769 LE)

              IBRD                          SAR Proposed Plan *                                Actual Achieved **
           Fiscal year            US$*10 6 /year      US$10 6       % of IRMP US$*10 6 /year           US$10      % of
                                                    Cumulative                                       6Cumulative  IRMP
               1995
      Decemb 31st, 94                    0                 0              6                0              0         0

               1996
      Decemb 31st,95                    4.6               4.6            10                0              0         0

               1997
      Decemb 31st, 96                   7.4               12            26.09            1.19           1.19       2.08

               1998
      Decemb 31st, 97                   7.4              19.4           42.17            5.22           6.4       11.22

               1999
      Decemb 31st, 98                   9.6               29            63.04            7.7            14.11     24.73

               2000
      Decemb 31st, 99                   7.8              36.8            80              6.46           20.57     36.05

               2001
      Decemb 31st, 00                   7.4              44.2           96.08            8.94           29.51     51.72

               2002
            June 30th /                 1.8               46             100             4.74           34.25     60.02
   Dec. 31st , 2001***
               2003
      Decemb 31st, 02                    0                 0              0              1.97         50.811(I)   88.86

               2004
      Decemb 31st, 03                    0                 0              0              N.A.           N.A.      N.A.

*           : IFAD originally decided funds not included
**          : Based on IRMP full amount after reallocation
***         : Compared on different dates due to original loan closure (30/6/2001) and project works
                        extension (30/6/2003)
(I).......: Up till the end of September 2003.




                                                               - 55 -

Table 3 - Allocations by component ­ Comparative table (370 LB)

Situation till Sept. 30, 2003              SAR Proposed                     Amount Disbursed (US$)
IRMP Totals (US$)                 Total        Foreign      Local       Total       Foreign      Local

A. Agricultural Development
Technology Transfer
Extension                       1,949,030.00 1,838,404.00 110,626.00   820,935.87   769,995.11   50,940.76
Small - Scale Irrigation        3,454,780.00 3,241,824.00 212,956.00   986,824.83   915,987.49  70,837.34
Subtotal Agricultural
Development                    5,403,810.00  5,080,228.00 323,582.00 1,807,760.70 1,685,982.60 121,778.10
B. Institutional
Strengthening
Applied Research                2,490,394.21 2,127,241.61 363,152.60 1,789,306.68 1,646,640.49 142,666.19
Quality Control                   659,460.00 556,461.00   102,999.00   523,135.43   471,669.28  51,466.15
Rural Women                       797,866.00 722,909.60   74,956.40    322,522.50   280,404.72  42,117.78
Strengthening MOA
administration                    715,837.00 598,982.20   116,854.80   408,332.98   297,866.99 110,465.99
Subtotal Institutional
Strengthening                  4,663,557.21  4,005,594.41 657,962.80 3,043,297.59 2,696,581.48 346,716.11
Total Disbursment              10,067,367.21 9,085,822.41 981,544.80 4,851,058.30 4,382,564.08 468,494.22




                                                - 56 -

Table 4: IFAD Contribution to IRMP Disbursements Comparative Percentage Plan by
Fiscal Year
          (*Situation till September 30, 2003)
                                       SAR Proposed Plan                       Actual Achieved *
                                             US$ /                                  US$ /
  IRMP Fiscal Year           US$ / year   Cumulative     % of IRMP   US$ / year  Cumulative     % of IRMP
           1995
     December 31st, 95         1,890,881     1,890,881          16.1           0             0            0
           1996
     December 31st, 96         2,020,318     3,911,199          33.3           0             0            0
           1997
     December 31st, 97         1,428,405     5,339,603          45.4      16,524        16,524          0.2
           1998
     December 31st, 98         1,336,606     6,676,209          56.8    662,814        679,338          6.8
           1999
     December 31st, 99         1,273,286     7,949,496          67.6    805,860      1,485,198         14.8
           2000
   December 31st, 2000         1,136,327     9,085,822          77.3    470,850      1,956,048         19.5
           2001
   December 31st, 2001                 0     9,085,822             0    789,756      2,745,804         27.3
           2002
     December 31st, 02                 0     9,085,822             0    781,032      3,526,836         35.1
           2003
     September 30, 03*                 0     9,085,822             0    855,728      4,382,564         43.6
* Actual achieved is without the US$ 500,000 Special account




                                                   - 57 -

8. ANNEXES

8.1- IRMP General Performance Indicators.


       At SAR phase, a series of indicators was defined for review purpose and it included
various items relative to institutional strengthening, projects budget and agricultural yields.
For performance evaluation many of these indicators were selected and monitored to brief the
actual status of IRMP as follows:



A- Input Indicators:


Indicators                                                      SAR                   Present

1. Total Disbursements (US$ million /March 02)
       WB                                                       57.24                 51.0
       IFAD (Sept. 03)                                          9.4                   4.6
       GoL                                                      13.25                 11.0

2. Rehabilitated Areas (ha)                                     27,200                23,400

3. Cons. & Rehab. Of Laboratories (m²)                          2,250                 250

4. Construction of Hill Lakes (m³)                              775,000               446,000

5. Cons. & Rehab. Of Extension Services Offices (m²)                   1,000                   730

6. Cons. & Rehab of Green Houses (m²)                           3,000                 4,278

7. Technical Assistance (MM)
                MEW                                             87                    610
                RWA                                             229                   0
                LRA                                             51                    158
                MOA                                             222                   1914
                GP                                              24                    N.A.

8. Training (MM)
                MEW                                             95                    10
                RWA                                             57                    0
                LRA                                             56                    37
                MOA                                             68                    2
                GP                                              86                    N.A.



                                                 - 58 -

B- Output Indicators*:

Indicators                                Before                    Target                   Present
1.Yields (t/ha)
       Yammouneh
               Wheat                      1.80                        3.50                     3.50
               Potatoes                   20.00                      25.50                     35.00
       Qasmieh Ras el Ain
               Bananas                    18.00                      20.00                     30.00
               Citrus                     12.00                      14.40                     45.00*
       Danniyeh
               Apples                     38.00                      41.00                     N.A.
               Peaches                    30.00                      35.00                     N.A.
               Pears                      36.00                      42.00                     N.A.
       Akkar El Bared
               Citrus                     15.00                      18.00                     24.00
               Potatoes                   30.00                      30.00                     35.00
       South Bekaa
               Potatoes                   23.00                      26.00                     N.A.
               Wheat                      4.50                       5.30                      N.A.
               Braodbeans                 10.00                      11.50                     N.A.
       *: Reported from model farms / Average production is reported around 36.0 t / ha
2.Cropping Intensities (%)
       Yammouneh                          75.00                      109.00                    0.98
       Qasmieh Ras El Ain                 152.00                     203.00                    N.A.
       Danniyeh                           100.00                     100.00                    N.A.
       Akkar El Bared                     104.00                     150.00                    N.A.
       South Bekaa                        57.00                      115.00                    N.A.
3.Cropped Areas (ha)
       Yammouneh                          4,500                     4,500                    4,500
       Qasmieh Ras El Ain                 3,850                     3,800                    3,600
       Danniyeh                           4,800                     4,800                    2,800
       Akkar El Bared                     1,600                     1,600                    1,450
       South Bekaa                        2,000                     2,000                    2,000
       Small & Medium                     10,000                    10,000                   N.A.

Notes :
       * The output indicators are still to be fine-tuned after the completion of the project impact
       exercise. Certain indicators would take 5 to 7 years to be defined with better accuracy.
       *N.A.: not available




                                                     - 59 -

8.2   Project Cost & Financing.
8.2.1 IRMP (3769 LE)




                                   - 60 -

                        SAR     IBRD   Awarded Contracts+     IBRD        IBRD       IBRD Balance IBRD Share
                                                                                      Committed/
November-03            Estimate Share  Contracts Variations Commitment Disbursements  Disbursed    Balance
IRMP Totals (*106)       70.495  57.197  60.665       70.129     57.535        50.811        6.724   -0.338(a)
CATEGORY 1               47.802  38.242  54.191       62.392     49.915        43.793        6.122    -11.673
Qasmieh scheme             7.609 6.087     6.936      8.064       6.451        6.448         0.003     -0.364
Yammouneh scheme           6.671 5.337     4.823      7.493       5.995        5.992         0.003     -0.658
Danniyeh scheme            5.302 4.242     7.666      7.655       6.124        5.646         0.478     -1.882
Akkar-Bared scheme         1.993 1.595     2.800      2.944       2.356        2.356         0.000     -0.761
South Bekaa scheme         8.648 6.918   11.917       15.949     12.759        12.759        0.000     -5.841
Small & Medium schs      17.006  13.605  20.049       20.287     16.230        10.592        5.638     -2.625
MEW Irrigat. Services      0.034 0.027     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.027
Litany River Authority     0.068 0.054     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.054
Agricultural Services      0.471 0.377     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.377
CATEGORY 2               10.623  10.519    0.856      0.856       0.739        0.468         0.271      9.780
Qasmieh scheme             1.350 1.350     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      1.350
Yammouneh scheme           0.244 0.244     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.244
Danniyeh scheme            0.267 0.267     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.267
Akkar-Bared scheme         0.142 0.142     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.142
South Bekaa scheme         4.615 4.615     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      4.615
Small & Medium schs        1.932 1.932     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      1.932
MEW Irrigat. Services      0.123 0.108     0.075      0.075       0.064        0.064         0.000      0.044
Litany River Authority     0.345 0.276     0.710      0.710       0.614        0.343         0.271     -0.338
Regional Water Auth.       0.000 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
MEW Hydro. Services        0.108 0.104     0.040      0.040       0.034        0.034         0.000      0.070
SIU                        0.034 0.027     0.031      0.031       0.027        0.027         0.000      0.000
Agricultural Services      1.463 1.454     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      1.454
CATEGORY 3                 8.436 8.436     5.618      6.881       6.881        6.550         0.331      1.555

Qasmieh scheme             0.444 0.444     0.385      0.524       0.524        0.493         0.031     -0.080
Yammouneh scheme           0.347 0.347     0.281      0.758       0.758        0.758         0.000     -0.411
Danniyeh scheme            0.289 0.289     0.382      0.382       0.382        0.348         0.034     -0.093
Akkar-Bared scheme         0.095 0.095     0.140      0.140       0.140        0.140         0.000     -0.045
South Bekaa scheme         0.523 0.523     0.653      0.961       0.961        0.823         0.138     -0.438
Small & Medium schs        0.850 0.850     1.849      2.066       2.066        2.043         0.023     -1.216
MEW Irrigat. Services      1.254 1.254     0.619      0.672       0.672        0.633         0.039      0.582
Litany River Authority     0.835 0.835     0.512      0.550       0.550        0.506         0.044      0.285
Regional Water Auth.       0.770 0.770     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.770
MEW Hydro. Services        0.373 0.373     0.280      0.311       0.311        0.289         0.022      0.062
SIU                        0.192 0.192     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.192
Agricultural Services      2.464 2.464     0.517      0.517       0.517        0.517         0.000      1.947
CATEGORY 4                 3.634 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Qasmieh scheme             0.381 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Yammouneh scheme           0.459 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Danniyeh scheme            0.563 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Akkar-Bared scheme         0.145 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
South Bekaa scheme         0.310 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Small & Medium schs        0.792 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
MEW Irrigat. Services      0.053 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Litany River Authority     0.163 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Regional Water Auth.       0.000 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
MEW Hydro. Services        0.036 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
SIU                        0.039 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
Agricultural Services      0.693 0.000     0.000      0.000       0.000        0.000         0.000      0.000
                                                - 61 -

(a)    : The negative balance is related to over-commitment in order to achieve the maximum
possible of tasks, due to expected completion rates not reaching 100% on many tasks.

8.2.2 IRMP (370 LB)




                                               - 62 -

                                                                Amount         Amount          IFAD Balance
                                    Budget         Awarded      Disbursed till Committed till  Disbursed/
IFAD Contribution      SAR Proposed Reallocation   Contracts    30/9/03 (US$)  30/9/03 (US$)   Awarded
TTE
Civil Work               142500.000    193813.300     67421.350      63844.830         3576.520        0.950
Equipment                161010.000    127620.000     101537.490   101537.690            -0.200        1.000
TA                       307040.000    271900.000     67583.000      67583.000            0.000        1.000
Contract                 1100000.000  1098452.000 1235497.390      467128.390       768369.000         0.380
Recurrent cost           127854.000      90000.000    69901.200      69901.200            0.000        1.000
Total TTE                1838404.000  1781785.300 1541940.430      769995.110       771945.320         0.500
Quality Control
Civil Work                 22325.000     26424.250    25858.600      25765.500           93.100        1.000
Equipment                258480.000    216800.100     214065.600   214065.600             0.000        1.000
TA                         96000.000     85013.000     6169.000       6169.000            0.000        1.000
Contract                   70000.000     51817.000    211123.000   181015.000        30108.000         0.860
Recurrent cost           109656.000      65158.200    45865.500      44654.180         1211.320        0.970

Total Quality Control    556461.000    445212.550     503081.700   471669.280        31412.420         0.940
Applied Research
Civil Work               368125.000   1211847.550     938695.850   444619.500       494076.350         0.470
Equipment                592920.000    604409.400     437462.700   437462.700             0.000        1.000
TA                       245350.210    209522.000     29278.000      29278.000            0.000        1.000
Contract                 504000.000    425084.000     702111.000   613793.000        88318.000         0.870
Recurrent cost           416846.400    152041.800     133487.290   121487.290        12000.000         0.910

Total Applied Research   2127241.610  2602904.750 2241034.840     1646640.490       594394.350         0.730
SSIS
Civil Work               2422500.000  2039515.100 1543741.900      559649.590       984092.310         0.360
Equipment                161280.000    152880.300     162437.700   162437.700             0.000        1.000
TA                       556740.000    313912.000     188250.000   134700.000        53550.000         0.720
Contract                       0.000          0.000       0.000          0.000            0.000        0.000
Recurrent cost           101304.000      69999.600    59200.200      59200.200            0.000        1.000
Total SSIS               3241824.000  2576307.000 1953629.800      915987.490      1037642.310         0.470
Rural Women
Civil Work                     0.000          0.000       0.000          0.000            0.000        0.000
Equipment                  64890.000     68799.600    66319.900      66319.900            0.000        1.000
TA                       156400.000    138500.000     106377.000   100992.000          5385.000        0.950
Contract                 400000.000    441051.000     127862.800     52902.800       74960.000         0.410
Recurrent cost           101619.600      79999.800    60190.020      60190.020            0.000        1.000

Total Rural Women        722909.600    728350.400     360749.720   280404.720        80345.000         0.780


Strengthening MOA
Civil Work                     0.000          0.000       0.000          0.000            0.000        0.000
Equipment                  75960.000     70290.900    39571.200      39571.200            0.000        1.000
TA                       360400.000    297749.000     158492.000     99192.000       59300.000         0.630
Contract                       0.000          0.000       0.000          0.000            0.000        0.000
Recurrent cost           162622.200    150000.000     159103.790   159103.790             0.000        1.000



Total Strengthening MOA  598982.200    518039.900     357166.990   297866.990        59300.000         0.830
Total                    9085822.410  8652599.900 6957603.480     4382564.080      2575039.400         0.630


                                                - 63 -

- 64 -

IRMP Fiscal Year                 Actual Achieved*
                                      US$/
    Year/ Component  US$/Year     Cumulative        % IRMP
                                                         1997
Total MOA 1997          16,524.00      16,524.00         0.16
Total All Component     16,524.00      16,524.00         0.16
                                                         1998
Total TTE               95,382.20      95,382.20         0.95
Total MOA               16,844.85      33,368.85         0.33
Total RW                83,817.20      83,817.20         0.83
Total SSIS             151,414.40     151,414.40         1.51
Total QC                81,342.05      81,342.05         0.81
Total AR               234,013.30     234,013.30         2.33
Total All Component    662,814.00     679,338.00         6.76
                                                         1999
Total TTE               48,699.54     144,081.74         1.43
Total MOA                2,676.60      36,045.45         0.36
Total RW                43,056.80     126,874.00         1.26
Total SSIS             212,749.40     364,163.80         3.62
Total QC               175,116.65     256,458.70         2.55
Total AR               323,561.01     557,574.31         5.55
Total All Component    805,860.00   1,485,198.00        14.78
                                                         2000
Total TTE              105,255.00     249,336.74         2.48
Total MOA              113,260.00     149,305.45         1.49
Total RW                35,005.50     161,879.50         1.61
Total SSIS             132,200.00     496,363.80         4.94
Total QC                19,715.50     276,174.20         2.75
Total AR                65,414.00     622,988.31          6.2
Total All Component    470,850.00   1,956,048.00        19.47
                                                         2001
Total TTE               99,918.37     349,255.11         3.48
Total MOA              102,779.06     252,084.51         2.51
Total RW                38,839.50     200,719.00            2
Total SSIS             264,363.25     760,727.05         7.57
Total QC                74,813.32     350,987.52         3.49
Total AR               209,042.50     832,030.81         8.28
Total All Component    789,756.00   2,745,804.00        27.33
                                                         2002
Total TTE              143,946.37     493,201.48         4.91
Total MOA               15,342.48     267,426.99         2.66
Total RW                31,875.00     232,594.00         2.31
Total SSIS             137,430.95     898,158.00         8.94
Total QC                54,290.48     405,278.00         4.03
Total AR               398,146.72   1,230,177.53        12.24
Total All Component    781,032.00   3,526,836.00         35.1
                                                         2003
Total TTE              276,793.63     769,995.11         7.66
Total MOA               30,440.00     297,866.99         2.96
Total RW                47,810.72     280,404.72         2.79
Total SSIS              17,829.49     915,987.49         9.12
Total QC                66,391.28     471,669.28
                                              - 65 -     4.69
Total AR               416,462.96   1,646,640.49        16.39
Total All Component    855,728.08   4,382,564.08        43.62

* Actual achieved is without the US$ 500,000 Special account




                                                         - 66 -

C. Detailed economic analysis (a series of EXCEL tables)
Thirteen tables are to be found in Project File in IRIS




                                                     - 67 -

- 68 -

