Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13012-LE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
JUNE 9, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound
US$1 - LL1,690
LL 1 million - US$591.7
(as of May 1994)
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENT
1 millimeter (mm)                    =      0.039 inches
1 centimeter (cm)                    =      0.394 inches
1 meter (m)                          =      3.280 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     =      0.620 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                    0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                       =      2.470 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =      35.310 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (MCMl         =      35.310 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m5/sec)   =       35.310 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                          =      1.057 quarts
1 liter per second (l/s)             =      0.033 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)                      =      2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                     =      2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AREC   AUB's Agricultural Research and Education Center
ARIL   Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon
AUB    American University of Beirut
AWP    Annual Work Program
CDR    Council for Development and Reconstruction
DGEHE  Directorate General of Electrical and Hydraulic Equipment
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
ERRP   Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
EU      European Union
FAO/CP Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GOL    Government of Lebanon
GP      Green Plan
ICARDA International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM     Integrated Pest Management
IRMP   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
LRA    Litani River Authority
MOA    Ministry of Agriculture
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOHER  Ministry of Hydraulic and Electric Resources
NERP   National Emergency Reconstruction Program
NSC    National Steering Committee
O&M    Operation and Maintenance
PMU    Program Management Unit
QRS    Quasmieh-Ras El Ain Scheme
RIA    Rapid Initial Assessment
RWA    Regional Water Authority
RWC    Regional Water Committee
RWIA   Regional Water Irrigation Authority
SIU     Sectoral Implementation Unit
SWMC   Scheme Water Management Committee
TA      Technical Assistance
TCC    Technical Coordination Committee
TORB   Terms of Reference
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
VWMC   Village Water Management Committee
WB      World Bank
WSIU   Water Sector Implementation Unit
WUAs   Water Users Associations
GOVERNMENT OF LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                          .                                                       Page  No.
Loan  and  Project  Summary    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  .  . .  . .  .   i-iii
I.   BACKGROUND    . .  . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  .  . .  .  . . .  . .   1
A. The Economy . . . . ....................... . 1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                                                               2
C. The Irrigation Subsector.                                                                              5
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                                                        7
II.  THE  PROJECT  AREA   .  .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . .  . .  . . .   7
A.  General  Characteristics    .  . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . .  .  .  .  . .   7
B. Irrigation and Drainage Systems.                                                                       9
III. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . .................... . 10
A.  Project  Objectives  .  . . . . . . . .  . .  . .  . .  .  .  . .  . . .  . . 10
B. Project Description ...................... . 10
C. Detailed Features ....................... . 11
D. Project Costs and Financing .................. . 16
E. Procurement and Disbursement .................. . 19
F. Accounts, Audits and Reports .................. . 23
G.  Environmental  Aspects    .  . . . .  . . . . .  . .  .  .  . .  .  . . .  . . 23
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..................... . 24
A. Institutional Arrangements ................... . 24
B.  Implementation  and  Supervision  Plan   .  . . .  .  . .  . .  . . .  . .  . 28
V.  AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION    .  . . . .  . . .  . .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .   .   29
A. General ............................ . 29
B.  Expected  Changes  in Cropping  Patterns    .  . .  .  . .  .  . .  . . . . . 29
C. Yields and Production ..................... . 32
VI.  MARKETS,  PRICES  AND  INCOMES  .  . . . . . . . . .  . .  .  . .  .  .  . . . . . 32
A.  Marketing  and  Processing  .  . . .  . .  . . . . .  .  . .  .  .  . . . . . 32
B. Prices ............................. . 33
C. Incomes ............................ . 33
D. Cost Recovery ......................... . 34
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal/appraisaL mission in February/March 1994
consisting of Jean-Francois Barres, Scnior Agricultural Economist/Mission Leader, Nejdet Al-
Salihi, Senior Irrigation Engineer, Mohamed Noureddine Ben Ali, Agriculturalist,Hans-Martin
Boehmer, Economist/Young Professional, Joseph Tertibachian, Agriculturalist/ConsuLtant and Zeina
Milad Akar, Rural Development Specialist/ConsuLtant. Peer reviewers for the report included the
following staff: Lynn Enstrand, Agrobusiness Specialist, Jeremy Berkoff, Senior Water Resources
Economist, and Usaid El Hanbali, Senior Irrigation Engineer. The internaL consistency and
conformity of the report with the Bank's operationaL policy was checked by Mr. Sant Khorana. The
report was prepared under the overall supervision of Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (MN2AG), and
approvaL by Mr. Ram K. Chopra (MN2DR), and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser MNAVP.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                               l



ChaDter                                                        Page No.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . 35
A.   Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   35
B. Economic Analysis  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 36
C. Project Risks ..................... . 37
VIII.  AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1   Project Cost Summary
3.2   Tentative Financing Plan
3.3   Procurement Arrangements
3.4   Disbursement Plan
3.5   Disbursement Schedule
7.1   Estimated Results of the Economic Analysis Per Scheme
ANNEXES
1.   The Yammouneh Irrigation Scheme
2.    The Quasmieh Ras Al Ain Irrigation Scheme
3.   The Danniye Irrigation Scheme
4.   The Akkar El Bared Irrigation Scheme
5.   The South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme
6.    Institutional Support
7.    Project Cost Summary
8.    Summary of Procurement Arrangements
9.    Technical Assistance and Training
10.   Disbursements
11.   Economic Analysis
12.   Marketing
13.   Implementation Schedule
14.   Implementation and Supervision Plan
15.   Proposed Key Indicators
16.   Draft Letter of Irrigation Sector Policy
17.   Methodology Proposed for the Selection of the Program of
Small and Medium Schemes
18.   List of Selected Documents Available in Project Files
CHART
1    Organization Chart
MAP - IBRD No. 25865



LEBANESE RE'PUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower             :  Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency :  Council for Reconstruction and Development
Beneficiaries            Ministry of Hydraulic and Electric Resources
(MOHER); Ministry of Agriculture (MOA);
Affiliated Institutions of MOHER and MOA;
Regional Water Irrigation Authorities;
Water Users' Associations and farmers
Loan Amount          :  USS 57.23 million equivalent
Terms                :  Standard variable interest rate, with 17 years
maturity, including 4 years of grace
Project Objectives       The main objectives of the project are to
increase agricultural production,
agriculture-based income and employment in
previously neglected rural areas and to
achieve a sustainable and improved management
of water resources, through the rehabilitation
and adequate O&M of irrigation infrastructure,
and the provision of basic agricultural
support services.
Project Description :  The project comprises two major components:
(a) rehabilitation and modernization of
surface irrigation infrastructure covering
about 27,000 ha; and (b) provision of support
to national public institutions involved in
the irrigation sub-sector (MOHER, MOA and
their affiliated agencies), and to regional
and local institutions involved in the
operation and maintenance of irrigation
schemes. Under the infrastructure
rehabilitation component, the project would
support: (i) rehabilitation and modernization
of irrigation works and facilities long
neglected as a result of the hostilities; and
(ii) operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems as well as the procurement of
irrigation equipment and materials. The
institutional support component would include:
(a) strengthening of irrigation and water
management public institutions; (b)
strengthening of basic public agricultural



- ii -
services, such as applied research, extension,
quality control of agricultural inputs and
produce; and (c) support to Water Authorities
and Water User Associations in the operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems and
improving the efficiency of on-farm water use.
Cost recovery and cost sharing would, as
indicated in the Government's draft letter of
irrigation sector policy, be consistent with
the National Water Management Strategy
currently under preparation.
Environment              The project has been classified as a Category
B project for the purpose of OD 4., Annex A,
as its aggregate impact on the environment
would be positive. The project would enhance
the availability of surface irrigation water
for agricultural production and would thus
reduce the overuse of groundwater resources.
By regulating and improving use of pesticides
and fertilizers and promoting Integrated Pest
Management practices, the project would also
reduce the potential hazards associated with
the misuse of pesticides and fertilizers.
Benefits                 Implementation of the project would generate
benefits arising from: (i) an increase in
agriculture production and income of about
34,000 families as a result of improvement of
greater accessibility to surface irrigation
water and increased water use efficiency; and
(ii) improvement in the monitoring, and
sustainable use of irrigation water and in the
operation, maintenance and management of
rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure, as a
result of institutional support and
strengthening.
Risks                :  The major risk would be the inability of
MOHER, MOA, and their affiliated institutions
to implement the project efficiently. This
risk has been minimized by the organizational
arrangements agreed upon with the Government,
which place project implementation under the
responsibility of the already existing CDR's
Program Management Unit and MOHER's Water
Sector Implementation Unit, established under
the Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project. In addition, the
project would include provision for training



- iii -
and technical assistance to Government
agencies, Regional Water Irrigation
Authorities and Water Users' Associations.
Estimated Proiect Costs
(LL Mili<n)                   (USS '000)  FociDm     b'
Local          Forcian  Toal   Local    Fowlin    Toal     Ex          Cmta
A. Irriptimit
1. Inipak  SulPojc-                14444.0        74323.1  8767.1  7726.4    39757.0    47483.5    84        78
2. Pnojed Fadliti  kwhding O&M Costa  17S9.7      72S0.7  9070.4  957.4    3894.6    4852.0    8o            s
S%bAtal Inpti  Reakblitation        16233.7        81603.8 97337.5  8683.8    43651.7   52335.4   83          86
B. huioai"   &ru5Lbadng
1. Iptisa Endl Wak Mmgavont
a. IrrigpLita SCrvio           295.9          6735.5  U381.4  158.3    3629.7    3738.0    96           6
b.  wivir_ma   Monitong        108.2          1510.4  161S.7   57.9    so80       865.9    93            1
su,tIa Lrripa  sad Wu"r Msa-Scm      404.1           295.9  S7M0.0   216.2    4437.7    4653.8    95           8
2. Aolhw,,l Scamom                   417.0          6915.2  7332.2  223.1    3699.1    3922.2    94            6
3. Proj- hqplae to                    28.8           446.3  475.1    15.4    238 7     254.1     94            0
Subtotal hattu.1 &sLlsastg     850.0         15657.4 16507.4   454.7    8375.5    8830.195
Thai BASE88NE COSTS                 17083.7        97261.2 114344.9  9138.4    52027.1    61165.6   85        100
1'"isi  Contior-i.            1550.9          7488.6  9039.5   829.6    4005.8    4835.4    83          s
Prim Cakagm                   7053.2         37619.7 44672.9   732.3    3760.3    449.6    84           2
Toal PROJECr COSTS                  25687.8        142369.5 16S057.3  10'=.3    59793.2   70493.6   85         115
Tentative Financing Plan
Local                          Foreign                               Total
IBRD                             0.45                             56.78                              57.23
Government                           10.25                              3.02                              13.27
Total                            10.70                            59.80                               70.50
Estimated Annual Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
FY95  FY96  FY97 FY98    FY99                            FY00 FY01
--------------- (US$ million) ---------------
Annual             3.4         6.9          9.2   1       m.5   10.2        9.2    6.8
Cumulative 3.4   10.3  19.5  31.0   41.2    50.4  57.2
Economic Rate of Return: Estimated at 19 percent
Environmental Rating                     :-B"
Poverty Category                         :PTI
Social Studies are underway to assess socio-economic
conditions in small and medium irrigation schemes.
Irrigation schemes located in poor areas represent about
30 percent of base costs.






LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Economy
1.01        Lebanon, a prosperous upper middle-income country in the mid-
1970s, has been devastated by 15 years of turmoil resulting from violent civil
strife and military occupation. In the period between 1950 and 1975,
Lebanon's free market economy expanded by about 6 percent per annum.   This
growth was largely driven by the service sectors, namely trade, tourism and
finance, which attracted business from surrounding oil-based economies. After
the eruption of the civil war in 1975, the economy deteriorated markedly, with
intermittent recovery during the two periods of relative calm, 1978 to 1981,
and 1986 to 1988. Although resumption of economic activity following the
cessation of internal fighting boosted per capita income to about US$820 in
1990, it was still only about one third of the 1975 level in real terms. The
total damage inflicted on the economy during nearly two decades of fighting
has been estimated by the United Nations at $25 billion. All principal
sectors of the Lebanese economy have been affected. Damage is both a direct
result of the war as well as the accumulated effects of a near total
disruption in capital investment and maintenance.
1.02        The prolonged civil strife had a devastating impact on Lebanon's
trade performance. The value of total exports in nominal terms amounted only
to $0.6 billion in 1992, compared with $1.5 billion immediately prior to the
outbreak of hostilities. In contrast, import requirements grew unabated and
have accelerated since 1990 when heavy demands for renewed consumption and
reconstruction efforts had to be satisfied. As a result, the trade deficit
widened quickly from $1.7 billion in 1988 to $3.6 billion in 1992, equivalent
to about 60 percent of GDP. No significant shift has taken place with respect
to Lebanon's major trading partners. The Gulf States still account for the
largest share of exports, both agricultural and non-agricultural, just as they
did two decades ago. Similarly, most of Lebanon's imports continue to
originate from Europe and North America.
1.03        The Government envisages a phased strategy for rebuilding
Lebanon's ravaged economy and addressing social problems, consisting of a
short-term emergency reconstruction phase followed by a medium-term recovery
phase. The National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP) provides for
initial urgent investments, which will be made concurrently with the
identification and implementation of longer-term development strategies in the
various sectors. The NERP is designed as a multi-sectoral operation,
focussing on removing critical infrastructure bottlenecks, alleviating
pressing social problems, and strengthening the existing institutions in
charge of planning, financing, and implementing the NERP. The proposed
project would support the irrigation sub-sector component of the program.



B. The Agricultural Sector
1.04        Agriculture in the Economy. Since the beginning of the civil war
in 1975, Lebanese agriculture has been adversely affected by the loss of
export markets, the neglect or destruction of public irrigation
infrastructure, the elimination of public services and the displacement of the
rural population. After the end of the war and despite the determination of
the private sector, agriculture GDP has remained significantly below its
pre-war level (20 percent), and currently accounts for about 10 percent of
total GDP. Its contribution to the trade balance also declined sharply during
the course of the war as agricultural exports fell from 43 percent of
agricultural imports in 1970 to only 26 percent in 1990. Agriculture in
Lebanon has always been limited in scope relative to domestic consumption
requirements. Food self-sufficiency ratios have traditionally been between 20
and 30 percent and may be even lower today as a result of the sharp drop in
output. While most of the low value added crops grown in Lebanon are sold in
the domestic market, high value added crops, such as fruits and vegetables,
constitute a major source of foreign exchange earnings.
1.05        The Role of the Private Sector in Agriculture. In sharp contrast
to the public institutions, the private sector remained remarkably active
throughout the nearly two decades of civil strife and has filled many of the
voids created by the absence of the public sector. However, private supply of
agricultural services remains limited to advice on the use of chemical inputs
by firms making those products and to geographically limited research results
obtained by the research institutes. Essential services, such as
phytosanitary regulation, technical support, and quality control of
agricultural export produce, are still weak. At the grass root level,
unofficial water users, groups exist in almost all schemes. In the large
schemes, their participation in the operation and the management of the
irrigation is generally limited to the most downstream segments of irrigation
systems. There are also farmers' cooperatives and chambers of commerce. The
cooperatives are generally organized according to specific agricultural
commodities (citrus or fruit cooperatives); they supply their members with
some farm inputs, provide cold storage facilities and marketing assistance.
Chambers of commerce are organized on a regional basis, they provide their
members with marketing information and certificates of origin for their
agricultural export products.
1.06        Agricultural Sector Policy.  The fact that many private companies
have survived the war and were ready to begin rebuilding as soon as stability
returned speaks for the resilience and determination of the Lebanese private
sector. On the other hand, the virtual absence of the public sector during the
civil war has led to an irregular exploitation of natural resources. The need
for a stronger government role in agriculture, particularly in terms of
enforcing existing regulations and providing basic services, is essential for
the successful rehabilitation of agricultural production. This need is
recognized by the private sector, which has called for the strengthening of
public institutions in regulating and serving the agricultural sector in
Lebanon. To interact with grassroot sector players, the MOA has recently



conducted a national consultation on agricultural development, and is
presently formulating a national agricultural development policy within the
context of the High Agricultural Council. Government's priorities for the
agricultural sector are reflected in the draft proposal for the Ten-Year
Development Plan currently under preparation. The Plan aims at creating an
enabling environment for the private sector by focusing public investment in:
(i) natural resource management and environmental protection; (ii) development
of rural infrastructure; and (iii) promoting accessibility of credit in rural
areas. The sectoral policy under preparation would further improve the
economic environment by addressing the following issues: (i) fiscal and tariff
policy for agricultural produce; (ii) agricultural land zoning policy; (iii)
agroindustry and export promotion strategies; and (vi) respective roles of the
Government and the private sector in delivery of agricultural services and its
implication on the public expenditures program for agriculture. The Bank has
carried out some preliminary sector work on Agriculture and the issues and
priorities outlined above emerge as the more important ones.
1.07        Physical and Human Resource. Lebanon's geographic location
provides favorable conditions for agricultural production, in particular when
compared with other Middle Eastern and North African countries. The climate
is determined by the geographic location and the topological characteristics
of the country. In the coastal areas, moderate rainfall and year-round warm
temperatures allow for intensive cultivation of vegetables, bananas and citrus
fruits. Further inland extends Mount Lebanon, reaching peaks of over 10,000
feet in the northern part of the country. The northern and central mountain
ranges receive the highest amounts of precipitation, much of which falls
during the winter and spring seasons in the form of snow. Some of the
mediterranean slopes in the lower elevations of Mount Lebanon are used for the
cultivation of various fruit trees. Mostly, however, the mountain ranges are
not used for agricultural production except as grazing areas for small
livestock. The main agricultural areas are located in the Bekaa valley which
lies east of Mount Lebanon at an elevation of about 3,000 feet. Temperatures
in the Bekaa Valley are moderate, but annual rainfall is limited by its
geographic location. Annual precipitation ranges from 1270 mm in the central
mountains, to just over 800 mm in the south, which is roughly the average for
Lebanon as a whole, and to only 240 mm in the north.
1.08        Current estimates indicate that agricultural labor in Lebanon
decreased from 38 percent of the total labor force in 1969 to about 10 percent
in 1988. However, agriculture remains an important source of income in rural
areas. Although it is difficult to estimate the number of full time farmers
(140,000 in 1970), most families have agriculture as a part time activity.
Seasonal labor represents between 30 percent to 40 percent of the present
agricultural labor force in Lebanon. It is supplied by the local rural poor
population, and by foreign seasonal labor. Depending on the region, women can
either provide a significant part of the farm labor requirements or
negligible amounts.
1.09        Land Use and Production Patterns.  Of the 215,000 hectares (ha) of
agricultural land, about 60 percent is cropped under rainfed conditions and
about 40 percent (87,000 ha) under irrigation. Most of the irrigated land



- 4 -
(67,500 ha) is cropped year-round, but because of the lack of irrigation water
storage capacity, 20,000 ha are irrigated during the winter and early spring
seasons only. Perennial tree crops, vegetables and livestock make up a
significant proportion of agricultural production. The share of tree crops
over annual crops has increased from 41 percent in 1974 to more than 51
percent in 1990 and about 40 percent of the area planted to tree crops is
irrigated. Major tree crops include olives, citrus, apples, grapes, stone
fruits and bananas. Of total cultivated area, the area devoted to cereals
decreased from 30.4 percent in 1974 to 18 percent in 1990. The area
cultivated to industrial crops (mainly sugarbeets) also decreased in favor of
olive trees, and vegetables irrigated during the summer season. Major annual
crops cultivated in Lebanon include cereals, pulses, potatoes, tomatoes,
cucurbits and other vegetables.
1.10        Agricultural exports, mainly apples, citrus and vegetables, play
an important role in the Lebanese foreign exchange earnings. It is estimated
that agricultural exports ranged from 20 percent to 25 percent of total
exports for the past few years. Staple foods, on the other hand (wheat, beef,
milk, sugar) have to be imported in large quantities (70 percent to 80 percent
of consumption needs) every year. The future of agricultural exports will
heavily depend on the Lebanese ability to keep net production costs at
competitive levels and to develop effective marketing channels.
1.11        Agricultural Institutions.  The Ministry of Aariculture (MOA) is
mandated to set agricultural policy, plan and support its sustainable
development through its central and regional services and satellite agencies.
These include, inter alia, the Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon
(ARIL) and the Green Plan (GP). MOA has been extremely weakened by the civil
war, in fact both its Central and Regional Offices are operating at low
capacity. Only ARIL and the GP maintain some operational capacity at the
moment. Present level of staffing is very low, as only about 14 percent of
the allowed positions are filled (310 over 2,200). The Agricultural Research
Institute of Lebanon (ARIL) is an autonomous body, with a central research
station at Tell Amara, in the Bekaa Valley and specialized regional stations,
including Fanar (Beirut), and Sour (South Lebanon). Before the hostilities
began, ARIL conducted valuable applied research for practical needs and
problems of agriculture in the country. However, most of the ARIL's stations
were heavily damaged and put out of operation. Notwithstanding the
hostilities, private and international research institutions have remained
operational: the Agricultural Research and Education Center (AREC) of the
American University of Beirut (AUB), at Haouch Sneid, the Exverimental
Research Center of the Saint Joseph University in Tanayel, and the research
stations of the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry
Areas (ICARDA) at Terbol and Kfar Dan. The Green Plan (GP) is an autonomous
agency of the MOA responsible for land preservation, land reclamation, road
construction, small hydraulic developments and on-farm level infrastructure
works. It has maintained a valuable part of its personnel and operational
capacity in five regional branches and has about 300 agents, of which 50 are
engineers.



1.12        Agricultural SupRort Services.  Although theoretically represented
in six major regions covering the whole of Lebanon, MOA's extension services
are practically non operational and most of the technological improvements are
selectively introduced and spread by the private sector (para. 1.05), mainly
through input suppliers and a few of the existing agricultural produce storage
and marketing cooperatives. The remaining extension staff, though
experienced, has been inactive during the war and has lost touch with field
realities. Salaries are extremely low and are not competitive with the
private sector. Input supplv is in the hands of very active traders in
fertilizers, pesticides and seeds; they also provide a form of credit to
farmers, to be recovered after harvest, through higher prices charged for the
inputs sold. Input supply companies are also the only available source of
technical assistance to the farmers, but such assistance is limited to the
marketing of their own products. The quality of inputs is often reported to
be below standards, particularly for fertilizers and pesticides. There is no
source of institutionalized credit for farmers in any of the project areas.
Farmers may receive credit assistance from local money lenders and commercial
firms (input suppliers and/or wholesalers) for periods which do not exceed 12
months. Credit from input suppliers is usually denominated in US Dollar
equivalent at competitive interest rates. However, the interest charged by
local traders and wholesalers on informal credit in local currency is very
high. A common complaint on the part of farmers is the sale of vegetables at
low prices from neighboring countries, and for delays in payment on the part
of some exporters.
C. The Irrigation Subsector
1.13        Water Resources.  Lebanon is relatively well endowed with
renewable water resources when compared with other countries in the region.
Total annual rainfall amounts to about 9,700 million cubic meters (MCM), which
is potentially adequate to support extensive agriculture. However,
agricultural development is limited by unfavorable regional and seasonal
distribution of water availability. Annual amounts of rainfall vary between
1270 mm in the central mountain ranges of Mount Lebanon and 240 mm in the
northern Bekaa valley. Seasonal factors and limited storage capacity lead to
a relative abundance of water during the wet season, but limit the available
surface flow during the dry season to only 818 MCM. This pattern is
particularly pronounced in the mediterranean slopes of Mount Lebanon, where
water available during the dry season amounts to only 21 percent of the annual
total. The Litani and other rivers running through the Bekaa valley limit the
seasonality of water availability slightly, but water available during the dry
season still accounts for only 29 percent of the annual total.
1.14        Hydrological data collection and processing has been severely
disrupted over the last two decades as a result of the destruction of many of
the weather and gauging stations, the abandonment of stations in areas of
unrest by the staff and the unavailability of funds to replace or maintain
equipment and to pay staff. There is currently a serious need for a revised
integrated national development plan for the management of water resources.
This will require updating the existing studies for each watershed to assess



- 6 -
available surface and groundwater resources, and present and future water
needs for municipal/industrial and irrigation needs. Plans will have to be
drawn up for an integrated development program for water use and, where
needed, institutional reorganization will have to be introduced to ensure
sustainable systems. With the support of the Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) the Government is preparing a Water Management
Strategy and is considering the establishment of a National Water Resources
Authority, which would be the highest water resources policy formulating body
and would also supervise the implementation of the development plan ensuring
the enforcement of policy and compliance with norms and regulations.
1.15        Water Sector Institutions.  The Ministry of Hydraulic and
Electrical Resources (MOHER) is the main institution involved in irrigation
through: (i) the Directorate General of Hydraulic and Electrical Equipment
(DGEHE), which has overall responsibility for water development planning and
the development of natural water resources including irrigation through its
Irrigation Service; and (ii) the Directorate General for Operations. The
Litani River Authority (LRA) is a public corporation, created in 1954 for the
multi-purpose development of the Litani river basin and is governed by a Board
of Directors nominated by the Council of Ministers. The LRA is in charge of
irrigation and hydropower production in the Litani river basin and for
hydraulic flow measurements throughout the entire country.
1.16        Nineteen Regional Water Authorities (RWA) and 209 Reaional Water
Committees (RWC), come under the administrative supervision of the MOHER's
Directorate General for Operations, and are responsible for water supply
management for both domestic and irrigation water, including systems operation
and maintenance (O&M). Although, RWAs and RWCs are autonomous commercial
enterprises, the revenues they derive from water sales are not sufficient to
cover O&M expenses, with Government hitherto providing annual subsidies to
cover the deficit which it has decided to discontinue this year. In line with
its water sector policy (Annex 16), the Government of Lebanon (GOL) intends to
restructure water management institutions. RWAs and RWCs will be grouped into
8 Regional Authorities. Four would be responsible for water supply and
sanitation, and four Regional Water Irrigation Authorities (RWIAs) would be in
charge of irrigation. Water Users' Associations (WUAs), organized around the
selection and hiring of ditch riders (Shawi) at the village or irrigation
module level, are operational in most irrigation schemes. They are handling
O&M on the tertiary systems. During the war, they often made up for the
deficiency of Water Authorities and Committees by going beyond routine
maintenance and taking charge of rehabilitation and sometimes of construction
of tertiary infrastructures, through community work. However, in some of the
schemes, there is now a need for intermediate institutions (Schemes Water
Management Committees(SWMC)) to facilitate the dialogue among all the users of
the same irrigation water in order to solve conflicts, organize water
distribution and progressively take over O&M responsibility from RWAs and
RWIAs. The Ministry of Agriculture's Green Plan (GP) (para. 1.11) is
responsible for small hydraulic works and farm-level infrastructure.
1.17        The Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR), attached to
the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, is a financially
autonomous public institution entrusted, since 1977 with the task of preparing
a national reconstruction strategy. It has recently prepared and has the
responsibility of implementing, in conjunction with other institutions, a



National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP), which includes, inter alia,
the preparation, execution and monitoring of projects for the rehabilitation
of irrigation infrastructure, and coordination of the studies to prepare the
Water Management Strategy. The CDR manages the Bank-financed Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP).
1.18        Existing Irrigation Schemes and Future Developments. Existing
irrigation schemes have essentially been unchanged since the 1970s. They
include about 10 medium and large schemes, in addition to more than 50 small
schemes covering about 87,000 ha. Of the total irrigated area, about 25,000
ha have modern or semi-modern irrigation networks while the remainder receive
water from traditional systems, all of which are in need of urgent
rehabilitation and improvements. Of the area presently under irrigation, over
47,000 ha are irrigated from surface water supplies, and the remainder from
groundwater abstracted from private wells. The irrigation systems consist of
either small diversion weirs on rivers and streams or direct offtakes from
streams and springs with conveyance being by open concrete-lined main canals
and earth or concrete secondary canals. The poor state of the irrigation
infrastructure and inadequate management, however, limit the present potential
of efficient use of available water resources. New irrigation developments
had started by the implementation of the first phases of Litani Basin
Development by the completion of the Karaoun Dam (1965) and the construction
of irrigation pumping stations, 14 km of main canal and first phase
pressurized network for sprinkler irrigation of 700 ha (1974) which, however,
due to the ensuing hostilities have never been commissioned. Future
developments are expected to include an additional 51,000 ha concentrated
mainly in south Lebanon, the Bekaa Plain and the northern coastal areas.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.19        The Bank approved in March 1993 the Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), designed to finance high priority components of
the Government's National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP). The
proposed Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (IRMP) would
support the irrigation sub-sector component of the program. It would assist
the GOL to rehabilitate destroyed, damaged, or neglected irrigation
infrastructures, and would be in line with the Bank-assistance strategy in
Lebanon, which focuses on: (i) helping to rebuild and strengthen a public
administration to establish an enabling environment for private sector
activity; (ii) rehabilitation of selected physical infrastructure in close
coordination with private sector initiatives; and (iii) addressing social
needs and environmental concerns. The project design benefited from the
Bank's experience in irrigation projects analyzed in an Operation and
Evaluation Department Special Study and is consistent with the draft
guidelines on the formulation of Water Management Strategies and with the
Region's Water Resources Paper.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General Characteristics
2.01        Location. Climate and Soils. The overall project area of about
27,000 ha is spread over several priority locations. A first group of five
irrigation schemes, comprising about 17,200 ha, has been selected on basis of



- 8 -
the magnitude of war damage or intensity of the social needs: the Yammounsh
scheme (5,600 ha), located in the north-eastern part of the Central Bekaa
valley; the ouasmieh-Ras El Ain scheme (3,800 ha), located in the southern
coastal area of the country, to irrigate the narrow plain extending from Saida
in the North to Ras Nakoura in the South; the pannive scheme (5,000 ha),
located on the north-western flank of Mount Lebanon, 20 Km east of the town of
Tripoli; the Akkar El Bared scheme (800 ha) located in the northern coastal
area; and the South Bekaa scheme (2,000 ha), located on the western flank of
the Anti Liban mountain, on the left bank of the Litani river, upstream of the
Karaoun dam. A second group of schemes comprising about 10,000 ha, would be
selected from 28 schemes totaling 27,000 ha, distributed in the various
regions of the country.
2.02        Climatic conditions in the subproject areas vary from the
Continental type in Yammouneh, Danniye and South Bekaa, with average rainfalls
of around 400 mm/year, to Mediterranean in Quasmieh-Ras El Ain, and Akkar El
Bared, with an average annual rainfall of about 800 mm and relative mild
winters. Soils in the project area are of the colluvial type; they are deep,
fairly well-drained and suitable for irrigated agriculture.
2.03        Population. Target Group and Land Tenure.  The Yammouneh scheme
area has a farming population of about 41,000 in 3,630 extended households.
Presently, only about half of the population resides permanently in the area,
with many of the young people migrating to urban areas in the summer. Per
capita and farm incomes, about $508 per capita, have become among the lowest
in Lebanon since the prohibition of cannabis and poppy growing. Small farmers
are by far the largest population group in the Yammouneh scheme, representing
99 percent of the rural population of the area and farming over 80 percent of
the agricultural land. The agricultural population in the Ouasmieh Ras El Ain
scheme area is about 8,000 in 1,200 households whose incomes depend heavily on
agriculture. The agricultural population in Dannive 5,000 ha, is about 83,000
persons in 9,300 households. The average farm size is about 2 ha. The project
would target small farms, average 0.5 ha, at the bottom of the valley. For
these small farms, family labor provides more than 90 percent of the labor
requirements. In Akkar El Bared the total population targeted by the project
is estimated at about 1,900 persons in 170 households. Small farms, less than
1 ha, represent 64 percent of total. In South Bekaa, the land is extremely
fragmented, with 2,000 ha owned by 6,900 farmers (41,300 people). Many of
these fragmented farms are now consolidated under rental or share cropping
arrangements to allow their exploitation; actual farm sizes, therefore, vary
from 3 to 30 ha. Women participation in agricultural labor varies widely from
scheme to scheme and from village to village. This participation is low in
the coastal schemes, with less than 10 percent of women participating in
Quasmieh Ras El Ain and Akkar El Bared. In Danniye, women are involved in
fruit harvesting. In some villages of the Yammouneh area, up to 80 percent of
the women are involved in farming, especially in small animal husbandry.
2.04        Development Constraints and Potential. In the subprojects where
water is supplied by springs with high variations of seasonal flow, such as
Yammouneh and Danniye, the main constraint is the shortage of water for summer
crops (mainly vegetables and fruit trees). For the subprojects where water is
supplied by perennial rivers or artesian springs (Quasmieh Ras El Ain, Akkar
El Bared, and South Bekaa), the main constraint is the growing reliance on
costly and unsustainable underground water because of the poor condition of



- 9 -
the surface network. Competition and sometimes conflicts to get access to
meager resources in the former case and private investments in boreholes and
pumping stations in the latter are signs that irrigation water is in high
demand in the project area. Moreover, farmers in the Yammouneh area who have
lost a major source of income after the prohibition of papaver and cannabis
cultivation was enforced by the Government two years ago, have now a strong
incentive to intensify and diversify their production. In Quasmieh Ras El Ain
and Danniye, farmers are faced with the loss of a significant share of the
fruit export market, caused mainly by the periods of civil strife, and also by
a severe deterioration in produce quality standards. The establishment of
quality standards for exports would help Lebanese fruits to regain their
previous reputation and market.
B. Irrigation and Drainage Systems
2.05        General.  The existing irrigation and drainage systems are
generally between 30 and 50 years old and due to the conditions associated
with the civil war and acts of hostilities, very little maintenance work has
been possible, with actual war damage having been inflicted on various schemes
of the project. Although water resources would appear to be plentiful, the
distribution over the year is very unfavorable since only 24 percent of these
resources are available during the eight dry months of the year. Irrigation
conveyance efficiency is low with considerable water loss due to the poor
condition of deteriorated canals, and with water shortages being experienced,
at the end sections of systems due to violations and poor water management.
This situation is compounded by the inefficient on-farm water use.
2.06        Water Availability and Reguirements.  All the subproject areas
receive their primary irrigation water supplies from existing water management
infrastructure much of which is old and has deteriorated considerably over the
last two decades. The Yammouneh scheme is supplied by irrigation water from a
series of springs situated in synclinal structural depression along the
mountainous slope in the West Bekaa valley with an average annual flow of
about 60 to 80 mcm which is not regularly distributed during the year when
discharge drops to 10 percent of peak spring season flow in the dry months.
The main source of irrigation water for the Ouasmieh Ras El Ain is primarily
the Litani River System in addition to the Ras El Ain springs which are free
flowing artisan aquifers with a relatively stable flow. Groundwater is also
used to supplement the shortfall from canal supplies, particularly at the tail
end of the main canals with an estimated 20 percent of the Quasmieh scheme
relying on supplemental groundwater supplies. The Danniye scheme is irrigated
from two main and two secondary springs with large variations of flows between
spring and summer seasons (40 to 0.35 m3/sec). Due to poor condition of
conveyance system, 50 percent of water is lost in conveyance. The Akkar El
Bared scheme has a current irrigated area of 800 ha. Irrigation water is
diverted from the Nahr El Bared River by two diversion structures with about
16 mcm being diverted annually. Water use (20,000 m3 per ha) is considered
excessive due to large conveyance losses in the old lined main canal and
earthen secondary canals. The South Bekaa scheme was designed in the 1970. to
use water from the Karaoun reservoir. The main pumping station at the foot of
the dam was destroyed in 1982 shortly after its completion. Since then, the
main canal (13 km) has been used to store the groundwater pumped by private
pumps. The subproject includes the rehabilitation of part of the left bank
Litani Command in the Karaoun, Joub-Jannine areas forming 2,000 ha of the



- 10 -
total 8,600 ha of this command for which about 10 mcm per annum will be
supplied as part of the 44 mcm for the total left bank command and additional
4 mcm will be provided by groundwater.
2.07        Rapid initial assessment surveys have been carried out by
consultants for 28 small and medium irrigation schemes to determine suitable
areas to incorporate in the project. These include 10 locations in north
Lebanon (7,156 ha), 7 locations in Mount Lebanon (4,791 ha), 11 locations in
Bekaa (13,807 ha) and two locations in South Lebanon (292 ha). It is
anticipated that water availability and requirements will be verified by the
assessment based on which schemes will be considered for inclusion into the
project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.01        The main objectives of the project are to increase agricultural
production, agriculture-based income and employment in previously neglected
rural areas and to achieve a sustainable and improved management of water
resources, through (i) the rehabilitation of and adequate O&M of surface
irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of basic public support
services.
B. Proiect DescriPtion
3.02        The project consists of two major components: (a) rehabilitation
and modernization of surface irrigation infrastructure for selected irrigation
schemes covering an area of about 27,000 ha; and (b) provision of support to
public institutions involved in (i) irrigation and water management (ii)
agricultural support services and (iii) project implementation and
coordination.
3.03         The infrastructure rehabilitation component has been designed
under a program approach. Infrastructure rehabilitation works have been
divided into two groups according to socioeconomic priority, readiness for
implementation, and absence of resettlement or riparian issues: (i) a first
group of five schemes totaling about 17,200 ha for which feasibility studies
have been successfully completed: Yammouneh (5,600 ha), Quasmieh-Ras El Ain
(3,800 ha), Danniye (5,000 ha), Akkar El Bared (800 ha), and South Bekaa
(2,000 ha); and (ii) a program of small and medium schemes comprising about
10,000 ha to be selected from 28 schemes for which rapid initial assessment
studies have been completed.
3.04        Under institutional strengthening, support would be provided to
MOHER, MOA, the Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon (ARIL), the Litani
River Authority (LRA) and the Green Plan (GP) to enhance their capacities,
rebuild their technical expertise and enable them to provide the necessary
technical support to insure the attainment of project benefits. This would
also enable these organizations to implement the project efficiently. The
support would include additional contractual staff, office equipment,
vehicles, training and technical assistance. Consultancy services and
technical assistance would also be provided for preparation of feasibility
studies, preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents and for
supervision of works.



- 11 -
C. Detailed Features
Irrization Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Modernization
3.05        The infrastructure rehabilitation component would support: the
rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation works and facilities; repair
and/or procurement of irrigation equipment and materials; and feasibility
studies for the program of small and medium schemes. The on-farm irrigation
improvement utilizing modern pressurized and localized irrigation systems for
all schemes would be left to the beneficiaries with water delivered at farm
outlets. The project would provide technical assistance and demonstration
equipment which may be rented to farmers to encourage adoption of advanced on-
farm irrigation systems.
3.06        Feasibility studies have been successfully completed for five
schemes totalling 17,200 ha. Detailed description of the schemes can be found
in Annexes 1 to 5.
(a)   The Yammouneh scheme (USS6.16 million, base cost) would include:
(i) improvements to tunnel entrance, head gates and critical
repairs to tunnel; (ii) repairs to covered canal, modernization of
20 turnouts on covered canal, sealing of about 30 outlets, and
replacement of gates for six offtake at head of chute; (iii)
construction of a new open chute to ensure efficient conveyance of
irrigation water from the end of the covered canal to the Bekaa
plain with a 3.5 m3/sec capacity, and stilling basin and
distribution system at Chifla; (iv) rehabilitation and repair of
concrete lining on four main canals (38 km) with structures and
gates; (v) repair or lining of concrete and earth canals in the
chute area (18 km) and secondary and tertiary canals (80 km) with
outlets and gates in the plain area; and (vi) rehabilitation of
the access road to the head of the chute.
(b)   The Ouasmieh-Ras El Ain scheme (USS7.85 million, base cost) would
include: (i) repair and reconstruction of the Zrarieh diversion
structure; (ii) reconstruction of damaged segments of the main
canals, with related structures and water control equipment; (iii)
reconstruction of the Zahrani siphons (750 m), to irrigate 300 ha
at the tail end; (iv) construction of a diversion weir on the
Litani to divert water to the existing pump station; (v)
rehabilitation of the existing pump station of Quasmieh and
provision of five new pump sets; (vi) installation of a high
voltage power line (15 km) to the Quasmieh pump station; (vii)
rehabilitation and concrete lining of secondary canals (25 km);
(viii) reconstruction and equipment of about 100 turnouts with new
calibrated offtake on the main canals and closing up about 300
unofficial offtakes; (ix) construction of 8 km of lateral canals
to feed directly into secondary or tertiary canals: and (x) other
works, such as repairs to the Quasmieh siphon, opening of
expropriated land along the main canals, construction of an 8 km
long service road to the Zrarieh diversion structure, weed
clearing and desilting of canals.



- 12 -
(C)   The Dannive scheme (USS4.92 million, base cost) would include: (i)
rehabilitation and construction of seven concrete main canals
(42.2 km) with related structures and gates to improve irrigation
and water availability to about 1,700 ha; (ii) rehabilitation and
construction of associated secondary canals (41.4 km) with outlets
and gates; (iii) improvements to headworks and urgent selective
repairs and rehabilitation for the remaining main canals of the
scheme covering an additional 3,300 ha of irrigated area; (iv)
containment and improved diversion for Buraisa spring; and (v)
construction of 10 km of service roads.
(d)   The Akkar El Bared scheme (USSl.83 million, base cost) would
include: (i) rehabilitation of the existing main canal (11.1 km)
feeding 1,600 ha of total irrigated area; (ii) rehabilitation of
El Abde branch canal (5.8 km); (iii) reconstruction of concrete
secondary canals to replace existing deteriorated concrete
channels (11.2 km) and earth channels (22.8 km) as well as repairs
to existing secondary concrete canals (5.7 km) feeding 800 ha; and
(iv) provision of water control equipment.
(e)   The South Bekaa scheme (USS12.25 million, base cost) would focus
on 2,000 ha, first phase development of 8,600 ha on left bank of
the Litani river, and would include:(i) rehabilitation of main
pumping station, water delivery pipeline and main canal with its
structures and water control system to eventually serve 8,600 ha
of irrigated area; (ii) rehabilitation of pumping stations
reservoirs and piped distribution network for irrigation water in
Karaoun I and II areas (700 ha); (iii) extension of main canal
(4.4 km); (iv) construction of new Joub Janine pumping station,
reservoir and irrigation water piped distribution system to
irrigate 1,300 ha; (v) provision and installation of equipment for
main pump station, water control equipment, pumping equipment,
tubewells and irrigation hydrants; and (vi) rehabilitation or
construction of 800 m2 of existing office and service buildings
and 500 m2 of workshops.
3.07        Small and Medium Irrigation Schemes Program.  Studies for Rapid
Initial Assessments (RIAs), covering 28 existing irrigation schemes with a
total irrigated area of about 27,000 ha, varying in size from about 50 ha to
about 2,900 ha each, have been successfully completed by local consultants.
These studies provide considerable valuable information about irrigation
schemes in different parts of Lebanon. The studies are currently being
reviewed by Government in consultation with the Bank to determine a selection
of an estimated 10,000 ha (US$14.47 million base cost) which would be included
for rehabilitation and modernization under the project. The areas selected
will be based on criteria reflecting a combination of economic rate of return,
rural poverty, and community participation. Assurances were obtained at
neqotiations that GOL would select sub-prolects on the basis of criteria
acceptable to IBRD. includina: (i) internal rate of return equivalent to at
least 12 percent; (ii) Promotion of community Particivation in the
rehabilitation: (iii) impact on rural income; (iv) absence of adverse impact
on the environment: and (v) absence of involuntary relocation of the local
Population rpara. 8.01 (a) and (Annex 17)1.



- 13 -
3.08        Proiect Facilities including Operation and Maintenance (USS4.85
million base cost). The project would support Regional Water Irrigation
Authorities (RWIAs) and Water Users' Associations (WUAs) which would be
responsible for 0&M, through providing office technology equipment for 5
offices, 25 vehicles, 59 motorcycles, and 8 loader-backhoe, as well as
incremental operating costs.
3.09        Technical Design. In designing the project more than one
technological alternative was considered. Depending on the location and state
of the irrigation scheme to be rehabilitated, both pressurized and gravity
water conveyance alternatives were examined. Replacing existing gravity, open
canal conveyance systems with pressurized piped systems, in Yammouneh,
Quasmieh and other schemes, did not present clear cut advantages. For many
farmers, a well implemented and operated gravity surface irrigation system is
sufficient to attain a relatively high and sustainable productivity while
providing high conveyance efficiency. The choice was, therefore, made to
rehabilitate the systems in such a way so that both the gravity and other
types of irrigation systems (sprinkler, bubbler, drip, etc) could be used by
farmers. In the south Bekaa scheme, the pressurized pipe conveyance chosen in
the original design of the scheme (1972) would be implemented as designed with
a gravity system being used for the first five years in transition to
sprinkler system. Sprinkler or localized irrigation would be possible in
other schemes with on-farm system implementation being carried out by the
beneficiaries. Farmers wishing to irrigate with sprinklers and drip
irrigation, for example, would build their own small farm storage ponds and
carry out on-farm irrigation by pressurization and conveyance using small
booster pumps. The exercise of this option would be left to the discretion of
farmers; they would have to invest in the necessary on-farm irrigation
equipment that would allow them to use any of the modern, water saving
irrigation techniques, with project providing technical assistance and
demonstration equipment.
Institutional Stren2thenin2
3.10        Irriaation and Water Management Institutions. The project would
support selected departments of MOHER, and LRA as well as Regional Water
Irrigation Authorities directly involved in the implementation and the
operation of the schemes.
(a)   Irrigation Services. The project would support: (i)  MOHER's
Irrigation Department (US$1.35 million, base cost), to supervise
and control execution of studies and construction work, by
financing office equipment, 2 vehicles, rehabilitation of offices,
studies and detail designs, technical assistance [78 staff months
(sm) of civil and irrigation engineers], training (overseas: 10.5
sm and local: 70 sm), incremental O&M of vehicles and office
equipment; (ii) LRA's Department of Studies and Proiect, (US$0.97
million, base cost), to supervise and control the studies and the
construction works for irrigation schemes in the Litani basin and
in South Lebanon, by providing office equipment, 3 vehicles,
rehabilitation of offices, technical assistance (51 sm of
engineers), training for engineers and technicians (overseas: 10.5
sm and local: 45 sm), incremental O&M of vehicles, building office
equipment; and (iii) MOA's Green Plan (US$0.77 million, base
cost), to strengthen present capacity to implement small schemes



- 14 -
through provision of office equipment, 6 vehicles, rehabilitation
of offices, studies for detailed designs of small schemes,
technical assistance (24 sm each of an irrigation and rural
engineer), training of engineers and technicians (10.5 am of
overseas training and 70 am of local training); and (iv) RWIA. RWC
and Water Users' Associations (US$0.70 million, base cost), would
be involved in the detailed design of the rehabilitation works and
will be responsible for O&M. The project would finance, 12 sm of
overseas training, 45 staff weeks of local training, workshops and
in-service training for ditch-riders (Shawis), and technical
assistance (15 sm of expatriates and 204 sm of local consultants).
(b)   Environmental Monitorin . The project would strengthen MOHER and
LRA capability to monitor the quality of groundwater aquifers,
especially in the coastal areas where the danger of sea water
intrusion exists. It would also support the gathering and
interpretation of hydrogeological data in the project area (para.
1.14). The project would rehabilitate MOHER's Hvdroaeolooical
Department (US$0.50 million, base cost), to initiate a groundwater
monitoring program in the project area by providing laboratory and
office equipment, one vehicle, technical assistance (9 sm of local
and international consultants as computer specialist,
hydrogeologist and environmentalist), studies (Yammouneh storage
reservoirs), incremental O&M of vehicles, etc. The project would
also support LRA's Devartment of Water Resources (US$0.37 million,
base cost), by providing hydrometric and office equipment,
rehabilitation of office building, 2 vehicles, technical
assistance (7 sm of local computer specialist and international
hydrologist), and incremental O&M of vehicles and equipment.
3.11        Agricultural Services. The project would support the
rehabilitation of essential public services in applied research as well as
quality control of agricultural inputs and pesticide residues in agricultural
produce. The project would also finance an innovative approach to provide
farmers in the various subproject areas with on-farm technology testing and
extension services.
(a)   ADplied Research (US$1.88 million, base cost).  On-station applied
research would be conducted by ARIL and would focus, inter alia,
on subjects dealing with verification trials for new cereals,
pulses, vegetables and tree crops varieties and species,
irrigation techniques, plant disease control, integrated pest
management and soil investigations, mapping and classification,
etc. To enable ARIL to undertake the above research, the project
would finance: (i) the construction of a 250 m2 soil and plant
protection laboratory at Sour, 2,000 m2 of green house at Fanar;
(ii) the rehabilitation of the soils, plant protection and
irrigation labs (2,000 m2) at Tell Amara as well as 1,000 m2 of
green houses at Fanar; (iii) equipment, which would include
computers, laboratory, irrigation and field equipment as well as
vehicles; (iv) training in-country (42 sm) and abroad (10 sm);
(v) long-term technical assistance (144 sm) and short term
consultancies (6 sm), would be provided for programming, analysis
of research results and training of local staff.



- 15 -
(b)   On-Farm Technoloov Testing and Extension (US$1.43 million, base
cost). At present, the public extension service is not fully
operational; therefore there is an opportunity to develop a
lighter system geared to the needs of small farmers. In order to
ensure that expected project benefits (increased crop productivity
and cultural intensification) are attained, the project would
finance demand-driven On-Farm Technology Testing and Extension
(OFTT-Extension) services, which would complement the existing,
private, supply-driven extension services. These would be
specific to each of the Bubproject areas, but would encompass all
agricultural activities (irrigated and rainfed crop productions,
including fruit trees, livestock, bee keeping and silk production)
in the area with a special emphasis on small farms. Possible
topics would include, among others, supplemental irrigation and
mechanization of wheat and pulses productions (Yammouneh);
improvement of on-farm irrigation techniques and Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) Techniques etc. In keeping with the project
objectives of increasing farm income, OFTT-Extension would also
focus on women income generating activities (small animal
husbandry, processing of agricultural products and handicraft
activities, etc.). Implementation of OFTT-Extension activities
would be contracted out to autonomous, mostly private institutions
such as ICARDA's Terbol station, consulting firms or consultants,
and universities, which would conduct on-farm demonstrations and
field testing of relevant technologies as well as organize
information field seminars for farmers and their families (para
4.12). OFTT-Extension activities would be financed through an
OFTT-Extension facility under the control of MOA. In addition to
the long term consultant in charge of OFTT-Extension planning and
monitoring, the project would finance 5 sm of expatriate expertise
in OFTT-Extension (research/development and extension), 4 em of
overseas training for MOA's extension staff, 2 computers, the
purchase and production of extension documentation and materials
(leaflets, audio-video messages, etc.), 2 cars and incremental
recurrent costs for the operation and maintenance of office
equipment and vehicles. For the testing and demonstration of
agricultural technologies the project would finance, from the
OFTT-Extension facility, the procurement of equipment and inputs
required by the contractors for the conduct of the
testing/demonstration and extension activities.
(c)   Ouality Control of Agricultural Inputs and Pesticide Residues
Monitoring (US$0.61 million base cost). Farm input quality
control and pesticide use regulations are adequate and in
compliance with international norms. However, they are not
applied for lack of equipment and skilled personnel. To implement
farm input quality control regulations, and enforce quality
standards on agricultural produce (pesticide residues), the
project would finance the rehabilitation of two ARIL laboratories
at Fanar, where pesticide formulation, residues and chemical
fertilizer analyses are done. The project would also finance the
procurement of laboratory equipment as well as two 2X4 pick ups,
for sample collection and field inspections, 3 and 7 sm each of
expatriate and local technical assistance and 8 sm of training
overseas for laboratory technicians. In addition to the above,



- 16 -
the project would enhance the capabilities of MOA's planned Plant
Protection and Quarantine Services Department, by financing the
procurement of one computer and accessories, two 2X4 double cabin
pick ups and 4 sm of overseas training. Costs of incremental
recurrent expenditures for operation and maintenance of vehicles,
buildings and laboratories would also be financed under the
project. The project will not be involved in the procurement of
pesticides.
3.12        Support to Proiect Implementation (US$0.25 million, base cost).
The project would complement the existing MOHER's Water Sector Implementation
Unit (MOHER) by providing a computer, a vehicle and 12 em of a consultant
irrigation agronomist.
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.13        During initial Bank identification mission in July 1993 and the
subsequent joint FAO/CP and Bank preparation mission in October 1993, six
irrigation schemes had been identified and selected from among the
Government's proposed priorities based on intensity of war damages and social
priorities: Yammouneh, Quasmieh-Ras El Ain, Danniye, Akkar El Bared, South
Bekaa, and Adonis. The feasibility studies for these schemes were prepared by
local consultants financed under a Japanese PHRD Grant, and were reviewed by
the appraisal mission. They showed that the first-five schemes are feasible
and have, therefore, been incorporated into the project. However, the study on
Adonis indicated that it should rather be considered in combination with a
water supply project. Preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents
for the five schemes is underway. These are financed by the Government, and
are expected to be completed before loan effectiveness.
3.14        During the same period, Rapid Initial Assessments for 28 schemes
totaling 27,000 ha, have also been carried out by local consultants financed
by the same Grant. Out of these schemes, a program of about ten small and
medium schemes, covering about 10,000 ha, will be selected for financing under
the project. As the next step of the selection process, MOHER is launching a
number of socio-economic studies to assess the social conditions (poverty
assessment) and the efficiency of existing water users' associations. These
studies for the selected schemes are expected to be completed by the end of
June, 1994. Feasibility studies would then be carried out the selected
schemes during the first year of the project.
D. Prolect Costs and Financing
Proiect Costs
3.15        Total project costs including physical and price contingencies are
estimated at US$70.5 million, of which 85 percent or US$59.8 million, are in
foreign exchange. Project cost estimates for civil works have been based on:
(a) detailed quantities for the main irrigation infrastructure works schemes
for which draft tender documents have been prepared by consultants (Quasmieh
Ras El Ain, Yammouneh, Danniye, Akkar El Bared and South Bekaa schemes)
amounting to about 70 percent of total cost of irrigation infrastructure; and
(b) for the remaining irrigation infrastructure, cost estimates have been
based on prevailing per hectare development costs (US$1,300/ha equivalent).
Unit rates were obtained from various contractors, suppliers and quotations
for equipment and consulting firms. The cost estimates for the five schemes
under (a) above have been refined during appraisal and agreement has been
reached with the Government to proceed with the detailed designs and



- 17 -
preparation of bidding documents for the five schemes which is to be financed
by the Government. Feasibility studies for a selected number of schemes,
subject of the rapid initial assessment, will be carried out from which
eventually a 10,000 ha area will be included in the project using a program
approach. All cost estimates are expressed in May 1994 prices with base costs
converted at the floating rate of 1,690 Lebanese Pounds (L.L.) to the US
Dollar.
3.16        Physical contingencies included in the project cost estimate are
based on the degree of preparation and firmness of details available, as
follows: 8 percent for main and secondary irrigation network, 5 percent for
buildings, studies and consultant services, 10 percent on civil works for
small schemes, O&M equipment, agriculture and miscellaneous activities and 10
percent for other equipment. No physical contingencies were applied for
technical assistance, office facilities and vehicles. Total physical
contingencies amount to US$4.8 million. Costs due to expected price increases
over the implementation period amount to about (US$ 4.5 million) based on the
following annual inflation rates.
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Annual rates         ........ percent .
Local costs      10.0    10.0     6.0      2.7     2.5      2.5
Foreign           2.2     2.2     2.2      2.2     2.2      2.2
costs



- 18 -
3.17                    Details of cost estimates are presented in Annex 7 and are
summarized in Table 3.1 below.
LEBANON
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Cost Sumnary
111 MWIMLE                          (USS <$i                                  B-
lata.            Foiejnm   To.          Local      Forin        TOtcl          Exbw           Cos
A. 3,dgstka RektbWWlas
1. S
A. O bsoicl adce                      2550.0         12118.1  14668.1        1364.0       6482.2    7346.3            83              13
b. Y     h                            2315.2          9195.8  11511.0        1238.4      4919.1    6157.5              o0             10
c. D.=       S c                      1626.6          7571.2   9197.8         8m. 1      4050.0    4926.3             82               S
d. Akku El Baed S ds                   607.5          2921.5   3429.0         325.0       1509.3    1334.2            f2               3
. S-h Bakes Scgr                      2660.2         26241.2  22901.4        3423.0       08V27.s   12250.5           8S              26
f. Se  Id Ma din Iri ad-  Sd,    a    4684.6        22375.2  27059.8         2505.9     33969.0   14474.9             83              24
SubL5W Iripaum Subprojcd              34444.0         74323.l  83767.1         7726.4     39757.0   47483.5             84              78
2. Prf   F tcii. in,xhs3i9  0M  Cosu     17S9.7          72Y0.7   9070.4         957.4       3894.6    4852.0             o0              8
S.,a 1La    RBth4aum                   16233.7        81603.8  9s7f7.5        868.8       43651.7   52335.4             B3              86
B. 1cairtk.J &gI]a.4
1ic  ead Wow Mk4Dazd
1rripti  Swv    (MOHER)                42.7          2471.8   2514.4          22.8       3322.2    1345.0            96               2
D fp.Ua of UAW eW Pr5jsf (LRA)   72.3                1740.1   1812.3          38.7        930.8      969.5            96              2
G-  Pie (MOA)                          83.1          3365.3   1448.4           44.5       730.3      774.8            94              1
Repo.&I Wa.e Audwm=
"d We Use Associska                   97.8          1 2W.2   3306.0          52.3            3      64s.6           93               1
St4ot. Ic*Lke Swrks                    2959           6715.5   7083.4         358.3       3629.7    37ss.0            96               6
b. EwAanwe  M  iWriog
Hydrolqi  Smi  (MOHER)                 27.8           905.7    933.5           14.9       494.5      499.4            97              I
Dqazt   d(WWrow Rs            a.RA)    80.4           604.7    685.1          43.0        323.5      366.5           8S               I
Sb,"oW. Eixoeta  Moniyto               103.2          1510.4   368.7           57.9        S08.0      865.9           93               1
SuhbLd.  trriaLi  aid Waler Ma mt         404.1          8295.9   S0.0           216.2       4437.7    4653.8            95               8
2. AriculUAl Senios
Appls3d Rcecud (ARIL)                   340.6          3177.4   3517.9         182.2       1699.6   1I81.8             90               3
OFTT-Elaa.os                            35.5          2658.7   2674.3           8.3       1422.2    1430.5             99              2
Qslity C-o                               60.9          1079.1   1140.1          32.6       577.2      609.8            95               1
Subtoal Agriotu.I Sonvi                4370           6935.2   7332.2         2233.       3699.1     3922.2           94               6
3. P-jra IaW4mplt
Supot to Wm" Sactr ka.3.etai.  Unil 28.8                446.3    475.1          15.4       238.7      254.1            94              0
Subota hatioalM &Sftf3n3                850.0        15657.4  16507.4         454.7       8375.5     S A30.3           95              14
ToLal BASELINE COSTS                    170S3.7         97261.2 114344.9        9138.4      52027.1    61165.6            85              100
Pltyska C-in      a                     1550.9         74Y8.6   9039.5         829.6       4005.8    4935.4             83             8
Prim C       <e8iga.ci.s               7053.2         37619.7  44672.9          732.3      3760.3    4492.6             84             7
To.] PROJECT COSTS                      25687.8        142369.5 I6S0573        1070D.3     59793.2    0493.6             85               115
Financing Plan
3.18                    The proposed Bank loan of US$57.2 million would finance about 81
percent of the project costs net of duties and taxes, and would meet most of
foreign costs. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
been approached by the Government and is considering parallel financing of the
project. However, at the request of the Government, the financing plan does
not take into account a possible IFAD contribution. Should IFAD financing
become available the GOL may either ask the Bank to cancel part of the IBRD
loan or propose to use the proceeds of the loan to finance additional
irrigation schemes. The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Table 3.2 Financing Plan (USS million)
Local                    Foreian                    Total
IBRD   0.45                          56.78                       57.23
Government  10.30                                   3.02                      13.27
Total  10.70                           59.80                       70.50



- 19 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.19        As the project implementing agencies' experience in procurement is
very limited, the CDR, which has shown a good procurement performance under
the on-going Bank financed ERRP (para. 1.17), would be responsible for
procurement under the project with the technical support of MOHER and MOA
(para. 4.01). All goods and works to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The procedures to be adopted are set out
below and procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 and Annex 8.
3.20        Civil Works.   The rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation
infrastructure for at least five main schemes valued at about US$5.0 million
each, would be suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and would
represent about 50 percent of the total civil works. For the medium-sized
irrigation schemes, particularly where geographical proximity would permit the
grouping of schemes into packages having each a value of US$3.0 million or
more and which represent about a further 15 percent of civil works,
procurement would also be by ICB. For these larger civil works contracts,
contractors would be prequalified. Civil works for smaller projects, where
packaging would not be practical, and for building contracts which would be
scattered throughout the project areas, Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures, acceptable to the Bank would be applied, using standardized
bidding documents modelled after the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
smaller works. Implementation of rehabilitation of small and scattered
irrigation schemes not exceeding 150 ha in area, or rehabilitation of minor
tertiary canals, would not be feasible through normal contracting procedures.
In such areas, and on exceptional basis, rehabilitation would be through
direct contracting either with the local communities and their small local
contractors, or by force account by the Green Plan, according to procedures
agreed with the Bank. These works would include any small pilots and trial
areas early in the project cycle and tertiary systems connected on farmers'
facilities. These works would be in small packages not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent each, with an aggregate amount not exceeding US$1,000,000
equivalent.
3.21        Ecruinment and Materials.  All equipment and materials estimated to
cost more than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, mainly O&M equipment,
specialized hydro-mechanical and agricultural equipment and vehicles would be
procured under ICB procedures. For more economical procurement, the
requirements of the project would be packaged, specifying the number of items
for each scheme or department. Lebanese manufacturers competing under ICB
would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or
the prevailing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is
less, provided they can prove that the value added to the product in Lebanon
exceeds 20 percent of ex-factory bid price. International shopping (IS) with
at least three quotations from three eligible source countries will be used
for contracts estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.6 million equivalent. Local shopping (LS) will be



- 20 -
used for off-the-shelf items costing less than US$50,000 per package up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.4 million equivalent. Direct Contracting (DC), under
procedures acceptable to the Bank, will be allowed for items of a proprietary
nature or items required to ensure compatibility with the existing equipment
up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million equivalent.
3.22        Consultancv assianments will involve both individual consultants
and consulting firms, mostly those hired to support the project implementation
agencies and to organize and conduct various training programs. The selection
of consultants will be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981), using the Bank's standardized Letter of Invitation (LOI) and
Sample Form of Contract for Consultants' Services. There will be a total of
about 28 short term assignments with a total value of US$2.6 million.
Specific details of various consultancy assignments appear in Annex 9.
Training services (US$2.0 million) will be obtained mostly through consulting
organizations associated with the project or through specialized UN agencies,
such as FAO, and universities. Three local consulting firms have provided
services during the preparation and appraisal stages for the various project
areas. Selected by the Government under procedures acceptable to the Bank,
these three firms are competent and are currently involved with the main
schemes under the project. Their services could be retained under the project
for engineering services for the main schemes as this work does not require
expatriate expertise; local consultants are efficient and their use will
enable rapid implementation of the schemes.
3.23        All contracts awarded through ICB, as well as all civil works
contracts above US$1 million equivalent, goods and equipment contracts
estimated to cost more than US$150,000 equivalent, and all consultant
appointments above US$100,000 will be subject to prior Bank review. Civil
works contracts costing between USS 0.5 million and US$1 million equivalent
would be subject to full post-award review. All other contracts will be
subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank. These limits would result in
prior review of over 80 percent of total procurement.
3.24        Procurement information would be collected and recorded as
follows:
(a)   prompt reporting of contract award information by the borrower;
(b)   comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank by the borrower,
indicating:
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and
the total project, including best estimates of
allowances for physical and price contingency;
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion
time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.



- 21 -
Table 3.3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Project ELement                      Procurement Method (USS M)
ICB    LCB      OTHER     N.B.F.'      TOTAL
CiviL Works             27.2    18.0       1.0                     46.2
(21.7)  (14.4)     (0.8)                   (36.9)
Buildings                        1.2                                1.2
(1.0)                              (1.0)
Equipment, Machinery    6.5                2.01                     8.5
(6.3)             (2.0)                    (8.3)
Vehicles                 2.4                                        2.4
(2.4)                                      (2.4)
Technical Assistance                       2.64                     2.6
(2.6)                   (2.6)
Training                                   0.8'                     0.8
(0.8)                   (0.8)
Studies Engineering and                    5.1'                     5.1
supervision                               (5.1)                     (5.1)
Incremental Operating Costs                           3.6           3.6
Total                  36.1    19.2       11.5        3.6           70.5
(30.5)  (15.4)    (11.3)                   (57.2)
Note: Totals may not add up due to roundings
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
2/ Non-Bank financed (Government).
*/ IS (US$0.6 million), LS (US$0.4 million) and DC (USS1.0 million).
'/ Consultants and TA services recruited in accordance to Bank's ConsuLtant Guidelines.
Disbursement
3.25         The proposed Bank loan of USS 57.2 million would be disbursed
against the categories and at rates indicated in Annex 10 and Table 3.4
Disbursement would be made against full documentation, except for payment
against contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be reimbursed
against statement of expenditures (SOEs), for which the related documentation
would be retained by CDR. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, for
all expenses made on the basis of SOEs, GOL would: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) ensure that
all records evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least one year
after IBRD has received the last audit report; (iii) have the records and
accounts of the SOEs. including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal
year, audited by independent auditors acceptable to IBRD, and (iv) furnish to
IBRD the audit reports, including a separate opinion on the SOEs, no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year rpara. 8.01 (b)l.
3.26         Given the long interruption in lending to Lebanon, there is no
disbursement profile for the country. The implementation period for the
project is estimated at six years as shown in Annex 13. The estimate is based
on the duration of contracts, specified construction methods and
implementation experience of CDR. Project implementation will use
institutions and procedures already in place for the Emergency Reconstruction



- 22 -
and Rehabilitation Project, which has a four-year implementation period (para
4.1). It is anticipated that disbursements would be completed by June 30,
2001, about six months after scheduled project completion. The disbursement
profile closely follows the disbursement for Bank-wide water sector loans. A
schedule of estimated disbursements is detailed in Annex 10, and summarized in
Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4 Proposed Disbursement Plan
USS million Percentage of Expenditures
Category                       eauivalent  to be Financed
1. Civil Works                 34.27        80%
2. Goods                       10.49        100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for
items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services,
Training, Studies            8.18        100%
4. Unallocated                  4.29
Total                           57.23
Note: Total may not add up due to roundings
3.27          Special Account. To facilitate disbursement against eligible
expenditures, the Government would establish a Special Account in the Central
Bank and operated by CDR under terms and conditions satisfactory to the IBRD.
The IBRD would make an initial deposit of US$1.5 million in the special
account. The CDR would submit replenishment applications for the special
account on a monthly basis, or when about half of the initial deposit has been
utilized, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications would be
supported by the necessary documentation, bank statement of the special
account and a reconciliation bank statement of the special account against
Bank records.
Table 3.5 Estimated Disbursement Schedule (USS million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01
Annual             3.4    6.9   9.2  11.5  10.2   9.2   6.8
Cumulative         3.4   10.3  19.5  31.0  41.2  50.4  57.2



- 23 -
F.  Accounts. Audits and Reports
3.28          MOHER, MOA, CDR, ARIL, GP and affected RWAs are Government
agencies, and LRA is established under the law governing public authorities.
The accounts of all Government agencies and corporations are subjected to
audits by the Government Accounting Office (GAO). In addition to its ex-post
audits of all public expenditures, GAO's responsibilities also include ex-ante
control over public expenditures above LL 5 million (equivalent to about
US$3,000 at the current exchange rate). However, because of the war, GAO's
capability is very limited at present. The Government intends to review the
functions of GAO and is considering using professional accounting firms to
carry financial audits under contract with GAO.
3.29          The CDR will keep separate accounts for project expenditures in
accordance with accounting principles and practices acceptable to the IBRD.
It will have ultimate responsibility for project budgeting and accounting and
would coordinate project activities executed by the various institutions
concerned, as well as consolidate the accounts. The CDR would also prepare
reimbursement requests and forward them to the IBRD, as well as ensure that
up-to-date information on expenditure and disbursements would be available to
the IBRD supervision missions.
3.30          Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CDR would: (i)
have its records. accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing Principles by independent
auditors acceptable to the IBRD: (ii) furnish to the IBRD no later than six
month after the end of each year. certified copies of its financial statements
for such year and the reports of such audits rfara. 8.01(c)l.
G. Environmental Aspects
3.31          The project is expected to have positive environmental effects
as a result of its activities as follows:
(a)    Rehabilitation would reduce the present use of groundwater from
private tubewell; this is particularly important in the Quasmieh
Ras El Ain irrigation scheme where over-pumping would eventually
lead to a dangerous intrusion of saline water into the
freshwater table. The project would address the subject by
providing an alternative to groundwater in Quasmieh-Ras El Ain,
regulating groundwater use in South Bekaa and making the users
responsible for correct use of irrigation water. At several
schemes, due to their poor operational condition and non-
utilization, long reaches of canals are transformed into garbage
collection dumps which rehabilitation would eliminate;
(b)    Ineffective pest control has been identified amongst priorities
that would be addressed by the strengthening of agricultural
institutions. Applied research activities would be geared to the
formulation and the demonstration of Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) practices for major irrigated crops to be rapidly adopted



- 24 -
by farmers. This would lead to a reduction in the use of
environmentally damaging pesticides, and a possible
contamination in the food chain. The creation of the office for
quality control, to become operational in the screening of
inputs and the assessment of pesticides residues on agricultural
products, goes in the same direction. Farmers training programs
would focus on potential damage from pesticides abuse and
misuse, as well as on benefits from the adoption of IPM
techniques; and
(c)    There are numerous sources of water contamination, such as
domestic sewage and solid waste and also agricultural chemicals.
Water pollution from nitrates has been reported from analysis
carried out at Tel Amara. At present, there are no standards
applied in respect of irrigation water quality. The
municipalities have virtually no power to control water
pollution and no resources to monitor the quality of irrigation
water. Strengthening of the soil and water laboratories would
allow for the adoption of fertilizer management advice based on
site specific recommendations, which should aim at reducing
present excessive use of fertilizers. The project would ensure
that investments proposed for such areas would address this
issue as part of the process of environmental screening and
assessment during the preparation of detailed designs.
3.32          The project would support institutional strengthening and
training activities for environmental monitoring at the national and local
levels. Support would be provided for the MOHER's Hydrogeological Department
and to LRA's Department of Water Resources (para. 3.10 b).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
Implementation Arrangements
4.01          General.  To ensure the IRMP's full integration in the National
Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP) and its full coordination with the on-
going Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), the proposed
project would be managed by CDR. CDR would be assisted by the Program
Management Unit (PMU) established under the ERRP. Actual project execution
would be carried out by MOHER and MOA, assisted by the Water Sector
Implementation Unit (WSIU). This unit was recently established in MOHER to
implement the water sector program of the NERP and has the mandate and the
capability to handle irrigation. Procurement and disbursement under the
project would be handled by the CDR's PMU (paras 3.19 and 3.27). This would
avoid the cumbersome and time-consuming procurement procedures under standard
government regulations and would benefit from the streamlined procurement
procedures of the CDR. The PMU would also keep the project's accounts and
manage the Special Account.



- 25 -
4.02          Execution of the Irri2ation Rehabilitation Component would be
the responsibility of the existing MOHER's Water Sector Implementation Unit
(WSIU). The WSIU is under the authority of the Director General for Hydraulic
and Electric Equipment and is assisted by a team of international consultants
(WSIUC) financed for a period of three years by the European Union (EU). The
team leader of the WSIUC is the manager of the WSIU. Three Deputy Managers
have been nominated by MOHER to work as counterparts to the WSIU manager and,
after completion of the WSIU contract, are intended to become managers of
their respective water subsectors: water supply, wastewater and irrigation
programs. The Head of MOHER's Irrigation Service has been designated as deputy
manager for the irrigation subsector. This will ensure the appropriate
coordination with the water supply and wastewater rehabilitation projects
implemented by the same Sector Implementation Unit (SIU). Rehabilitation
works would be contracted out to private contractors (para. 3.20).
4.03          The WSIU would have full responsibility and accountability for
the technically related project features and would be responsible for the
following tasks: (i) preparation of feasibility studies for specific schemes
through consultants and preparatory work for the recruitment of consultants;
(ii) supervision of the preparation of detailed engineering and tender
documents and contract packaging; (iii) management of consultants; (iv) all
technical aspects of procurement of goods and services; (v) monitoring of
civil works contracts and project supervision; (vi) periodic reporting; (vii)
management of studies and actions required for organizational and
institutional development, and adequate cost recovery; (viii) liaison and
coordination with MOA, LRA and RWAs. The WSIUC consists of the following
units: technical services, contract management, program monitoring and
control, and administration, already staffed by five international consultants
in addition to the team leader financed by the EU. The proposed project would
complement EU assistance by providing an irrigation agronomist, as well as a
four wheel drive vehicle and a computer. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that CDR would (i) implement the proiect through its PMU and
through MOHER's WSIU, under arrangements similar to those already in place for
the ERRP: (iil put in place alternative implementation arrangements in
agreement with IBRD, in case that any of the above units ceases to exist, and
(iii) would recruit no later than December 31. 1994. an irrigation agronomist
to assist MOHER in the carrying out of its project's function, on terms of
reference satisfactory to IBRD rparas. 8.01 (dland (ell.
4.04          Operation and Maintenance of main headwork, main and secondary
canals, would be initially under the responsibility of existing Water
Authorities and Water Committees and would be automatically transferred to the
new Regional Water Irrigation Authorities (LRA, North Lebanon, North Bekaa,
Mount Lebanon) as soon as they are established (Annex 16). Water users
associations would be responsible for O&M of tertiary canals. The
Government's Letter of Irrigation Sector Policy (Annex 16) indicates that the
composition of the board of the new Regional Water Irrigation Authorities will
be revised to include representatives of farmers. Project implementation
would lead, after rehabilitation of the selected schemes, to their substantial
self-management and self-financing. In line with GOL's policy, present scheme
management and administration procedures would be revised with the purpose of



- 26 -
introducing tighter management control, stricter financial control and greater
accountability. To ensure efficient management and to establish fiscal
accountability, the GOL intends to establish Regional Water Irrigation
Authorities (RWIAs) to handle O&M of headworks, main and secondary canals and
organize cost recovery. RWIA will have a lean structure and will contract out
O&M to private contractors and would progressively transfer their
responsibilities to autonomous Scheme Water Management Committees (SWMC).
Water user.' representation in the boards of the RWIAs will ensure control of
their operating expenses.
4.05          Water Users' Involvement.  Although farmers are currently
involved in the operation of the schemes through unofficial Water Users'
Associations organized around the Shawis (para 1.16), they are not involved in
the management of the schemes. This has two major consequences: (i) farmers
are not aware of the real cost of irrigation O&M, especially when they see no
improvement in water distribution and are, therefore, sometimes reluctant to
pay the corresponding water charges, and (ii) simple O&M tasks, which could be
more effectively handled by farmers themselves, are sometimes neglected by the
Authorities. To increase the role and responsibilities of farmers in the
management of downstream irrigation systems, measures need to be taken to
allow for their involvement in the management of schemes through the support
and empowerment of existing WUAs grouping farmers at the outlet or village
level.
4.06          The rehabilitation sequence would include, as a necessary step,
beneficiaries' review and approval of rehabilitation proposals; this dialogue
would start at preparation and appraisal stage, for schemes yet to be
selected. To that effect, MOHER is launching social studies in all 28 schemes
to evaluate social priorities, and asses the willingness of the population to
participate in the project. As part of the feasibility studies, MOHER or LRA
personnel would visit the schemes and explain the engineering rehabilitation
plans to farmers' representatives, and Shawis, at village level. If the
farmers' representatives wish the works to go forward, they would, through the
RWA, formally approve the plans, and commit themselves and the farmers they
represent to using their own resources to fully finance and to carry out the
scheme maintenance as foreseen in the plans. In selected complex schemes like
Yammouneh, a Scheme Water Management Committee (SWMC) would be created. The
SWMC would comprise representatives from the Water Authority and
representatives designated by the WUAs. The SWMC would make decisions based
on discussions in which users' representatives would voice their demands; and
users would receive guidance on management of the secondary and tertiary
networks.
4.07          During project implementation, RWAs and RWIAs would support the
WUAs in the operation and maintenance of the tertiary system, through: (a)
informing water users on O&M and cost-recovery procedures; (b) training the
Shawis in the O&M of the rehabilitated structures; and (c) regular supervision
and assistance to the Shawis. As execution of the civil works nears
completion, the WSIU and the RWIAs would prepare a manual of O&M which would
describe in detail the maintenance and other operations and provide adequate
training. They would also propose an annual O&M program that would detail the



- 27 -
division of responsibilities and functions for O&M between RWIAs and WUAs.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CDR. in coordination with MOHER.
would prepare and submit to the Bank an O&M program for the first year of the
proiect no later than July 31. 1995 and that implementation of the Plan would
commence no later than December 1995 rpara. 8.01 (ffl.
4.08          Execution of Agricultural Support Activities would be the
responsibility of MOA. However, the volume of work in implementing the
agricultural support activities sub-component of the IRMP does not warrant the
creation of a specific SIU at MOA. The local technical assistant in charge of
the OFTT-Extension at MOA and one of the local technical assistants to be
hired by ARIL would, with some assistance from the SIU at MOHER, prepare the
required documentation for tendering project financed procurement and
consultant services, etc. Procurement and disbursement would be handled by the
CDR's PMU.
4.09          On-Station Agricultural Research would be executed by ARIL's
staff and the four applied research experts to be financed by the project
would be recruited before March 31, 1995. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations [vara 8.01 (all. After their recruitment, the
experts would each produce an applied research program aimed at resolving the
immediate problems facing Lebanese agriculture in general and those of the
subproject areas in particular. ARIL's research would be coordinated with the
OFTT-Extension activities by the MOA group in charge of evaluating the
performance of the OFTT-Extension contractors.
4.10          On-Farm Technology Testing and Extension (OFTT-Extension)
activities would be implemented through multi-year service contracts with
private institutions or consultants such as the American University of Beirut
Housh Sneid station, Saint Joseph University's Tanayel station, ICARDA's
Terbol station, NGOs, foreign universities or development institutions,
consulting firms or private consultants. Planning (formulation of TORs,
evaluation of consultants proposals, etc.), supervision and monitoring of this
activity would be undertaken by a long term expert, to be financed by the
project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Extension
Specialist would be recruited before June 30. 1995 rvara. 8.01 (a)1.
4.11          Quality Control of Inputs and Produce.  Input and agricultural
produce quality control activities would be conducted by the inspectors and
assistants of MOA's Department of Quality Control and Quarantine Services and
by laboratory staff of ARIL at Fanar. Staff of MOA's Department of Quarantine
Services would inspect produce packing houses, markets and input supply
outlets, collect product samples, and have them analyzed at ARIL's
laboratories at Fanar. Traders, farmers, public health institutions and
private agro-processors and exporters are also expected to have the Fanar
laboratories analyze their produce and input samples for a fee. Farmers and
traders have expressed their interest for this service.
Coordination Arranaements
4.12          Technical Coordination Committee. Overall coordination of
project implementation would be under the responsibility of the Technical
Coordination Committee (TCC) established under the ERRP and composed of the
PMU and of NERP's SIUs. MOA, GP and ARIL would be invited to join TCC
meetings on an ad-hoc basis. The main functions of the TCC in its dealings
with the IRMP would be to: (i) ensure coordination with the ERRP projects on
water supply, waste water management and solid waste management; and (b)



- 28 -
coordinate with other Government Departments and resolve problems that might
emerge during execution. Assurances were obtained at necotiations that the
TCC would coordinate the implementation of the IRMP with the implementation of
the ERRP and that representatives of the MOA. GP. LRA and ARIL would be
invited to attend the meetings of the TCC fpara. 8.01 (hfl.
B. Implementation and Supervision Plan
4.13          The project would be implemented over a six-year period.  This
is justified by the fact that the project is part of the NERP and would
implemented by CDR which is also implementing the NERP. An implementation
schedule is given in Annex 13. The implementation of Yammouneh, Quasmieh-Ras
El Ain, Danniye and South Bekaa would start in the first year after
appointment of consultants and finalization of bidding documents and would be
completed in the first three years of the project. Agreement was reached
during appraisal that GOL will finance the detailed designs and preparation of
biddino documents for the first five schemes (Para 3.13). Implementation of
Akkar El Bared scheme would start in the second year and also extend over two
years, and would be completed by the end of Project Year 4 (PY4). The small
to medium schemes consisting of about 10,000 ha would be implemented using a
program approach with the various contracts being implemented over the period
of the project, starting towards the end of PY2 and last contracts being
completed in PY6. The preparation by consultants of final designs and tender
documents for civil works would be carried out in PYI.
4.14          Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation would be the responsibility of
the CDR, who would submit progress reports. The basic tool for monitoring
would be the Annual Work Plan and Budget, to be prepared by each institution
involved in the IRMP and approved by the TCC and the Bank. This would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31 of each year. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that CDR, in coordination with MOHER and MOA, would: (i)
prepare and submit to IBRD, no later than December 31 of each year. a work
nroaram together with a budget for the followina year: and (ii) submit. on a
semi-annual basis commencing June 30. 1995. a report describing the progress
of the various components of the pro-ect Ipara. 8.01 (ill. The CDR would also
propose any remedial actions to be adopted by the TCC in agreement with IBRD.
Monitoring and evaluation of agricultural development activities will be
handled by a task group, made up of the heads of MOA's Departments of
Coordination and Studies, Extension, as well as ARIL and the long term expert
in charge of the OFTT-Extension program. The task group would evaluate would-
be contractors' proposals and implementation performance, on a yearly basis,
and make recommendation to MOA on whether or not contracts should be
continued. The OFTT-Extension long term expert (see TORs Annex 9) would also
be responsible for monitoring and analyzing project impact indicators related
to agricultural development in the various schemes to be rehabilitated by the
project. Performance would be reviewed during Bank supervision missions.
4.15          World Bank Supervision Missions would normally be conducted
twice a year, preferably in May and November. A tentative implementation and
supervision plan is shown in Annex 14; it provides for 16 review missions over
the life of the project, requiring an estimated 197 staff-weeks. Because of
the number and dispersion of subprojects and the lack of recent experience of
the Borrower and the Bank, a minimum supervision time of 25-30 staffweeks
would be required in each of the first three years of the project. To
expedite project start up, a Project launch mission is planned for the second
half of calendar 1994. The mission would review the status of effectiveness
and review the implementation arrangements for the 1995 work program. A mid-



- 29 -
term review of all project activities would be conducted jointly by CDR,
MOHER, MOA, LRA, ARIL, together with the Bank and other possible co-
financiers. The mid-term review would be held at the beginning of PY4 to
assess progress in implementation, verify the continued validity of the design
assumptions in light of implementation experience, and undertake any necessary
adjustments in project objectives, design and implementation arrangements.
The mid-term review report would summarize achievements under the
rehabilitation contracts, analyze difficulties encountered, especially in
marketing, and suggest measures to overcome them in the future. Specifically,
it would assess the progress on developing scheme-level self-finance,
maintenance and administration. It would also evaluate the development impact
of physical rehabilitation and agricultural support on yields, production
costs and cropping patterns. Main criteria for impact evaluation have been
finalized during negotiations. Assurances were obtained at neaotiations that
CDR would prenare a detailed Progress report for submission to IBRD no later
than October 31. 1997. for a ioint review no later than December 31.1997
[para. 8.01 Mi).
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. General
5.01          The improvements proposed under the project would result in
increased agricultural production arising mainly from: (a) increases in
cropping intensities, made possible by a greater and more reliable supply of
irrigation water; (b) increased crop yields, resulting from better and more
timely irrigations and improved use of production inputs and cultural
practices; (c) a modest expansion of the irrigated areas, resulting from the
reduction of water losses previously incurred through the dilapidated
conveyance system. The following is an analysis of the agricultural
development that is anticipated under the project.
B. Expected Channes in CroRping Patterns
5.02          Yammouneh.  Present cropping patterns (Annex 11, Table 1),
indicate that of a total of 5,600 ha of cultivable land only about 3,995 ha
are being cropped to annuals, giving an overall low cropping intensity of 75
percent. In terms of cultivated area, winter rainfed subsistence crops are
the most important. Wheat occupies 3,025 ha and pulses 160 ha, representing
together about 80 percent of the total cropped area. The most important fully
irrigated crops are potatoes (520 ha), winter and summer vegetables (290 ha)
and fruit trees (305 ha). Since the eradication of cannabis and papaver
cultivation, irrigated crops, particularly summer vegetables, potatoes and
cucurbits have become the major source of cash for farmers in the project
area. The area devoted to these crops is rather limited, because the water
conveyance system covers only a portion of the cultivable area and because
there is lack of sufficient irrigation water in the summer. In the zones
where some irrigation canals remain, farmers provide winter wheat and pulse
crops with supplemental irrigation.
5.03          Because irrigation water availability will continue to be
limited during the summer months, even after the rehabilitation of the scheme,
it is anticipated that many farmers will take advantage of the abundant water
supply available in the winter to intensify their farming operations by
eliminating the fallow, significantly expanding the area under wheat and
pulses and providing their winter crops with supplemental irrigation. Summer
crops will benefit from a more reliable supply of irrigation water and better



- 30 -
irrigation techniques (better levelling, irrigation dosage and frequency). It
is expected that the area under summer irrigation will expand by about 1,000
ha, corresponding to the amount of water saved through improved conveyance
efficiency and better on-farm water management. At full development it iu
anticipated that about 5,295 ha will be under cultivation to annual crops in
Yammouneh, giving an overall cropping intensity of 109 percent. Because of
the high demand for these commodities, the area devoted to winter pulses would
expand significantly at the expense of winter wheat, which has a lower return
per hectare. In the summer, the additional irrigated area will be devoted to
varying types of crops, depending on market demand and prices. However,
because of their particular adaptation to the area, potatoes and cucurbits
will continue to be major crops.
5.04          Ouasmieh-Ras El Ain. Existing cropping patterns (Annex 11,
table 1), make citrus the most important crop in the area with 2,325 ha or
about 60 percent of the cultivable 3,850 ha. Bananas are next in importance,
with 825 ha, followed by watermelons (and other vegetable crops), with 500 ha,
and the citrus/bananas association, with 370 ha. The poor condition of the
conveyance network and the lack of sufficient irrigation water moving through
the system in the summer has compelled many of the farmers who can afford it,
to dig tubewells in order to make up for the shortfall in surface water
availability. This has made irrigation frequency low and dosage very high,
causing the leaching of essential nutrients from the soil, increasing the
incidence of cryptogamic and other diseases, hence increasing production costs
and reducing crop yields. The incidence of frost which either reduces yields
or totally destroys banana plantations is also a constraint to banana
production.
5.05          Many of the large farmers in the Quasmieh area are financially
secure and highly receptive to new production techniques and plant materials.
Some have established contacts with public and private research institutions
abroad to obtain and introduce, inter alia, tissue-cultured, cold tolerant
banana cultivars, tropical fruit and ornamental trees as well as flowers.
Hence, banana cultivation and specialty crops (kiwi, passion fruit, mango) are
expected to expand at the expense of citrus. As a result of increased
urbanization and tourism activity, vegetable growing would very likely see
further expansion (+30 percent) and intensification, through green houses,
protective plastic tunnels and intercropping. The total area cultivated in
annual crops is expected to increase from 500 ha to 660 ha even when the area
cultivable to annual crops will decrease slightly from 330 ha to 325 ha. As a
result, the cropping intensity would increase from 151 percent to 203 percent.
5.06          Dannive.  Surveys conducted by consultants for the feasibility
study indicate that the whole project area is planted to perennial fruit tree
crops. The survey also indicated that plant population per unit area is high
and may reach 1,600 to 1,800 plants per ha, not planted on regular lines or
spacings. Most orchards, located in the upper part of the valley near the
water springs benefit from 3 to 4 irrigations per season. They are usually
cropped to apples and some pears and produce high quality fruit readily sold
at relatively high prices. Those that are further down, in the middle part of
the valley, get a little less water and are devoted to pears and peaches. The
quality of the produce in this area is not up to standard, mainly because of
inadequate cultural practices (poor pruning and fertilization, untimely
treatments and irrigations, poor on-farm water management), as is the case for
the other areas in the scheme. Production reaches the market at the peak
supply period of the season and is, therefore, sold at low prices. At the
lowest part of the valley, the availability of irrigation water becomes



- 31 -
problematic. Fruit trees grown in this part of the valley are mainly composed
of prunes and apricots. Because of favorable winter temperatures and exposure
to the south, the prunes and apricots are produced early in the season and,
therefore, benefit from good markets and high prices despite their doubtful
quality.
5.07          Present cropping pattern is not expected to change even after
the rehabilitation of the water conveyance systems. Waterlogging in some
terraces is expected to decrease with the improvement in irrigation practices.
As Lebanon regains lost export markets, it is likely that farmers will change
tree species in response to market demand (Annex 11, table 1).
5.08        Akkar El Bared.  The area that will directly benefit from the
project is currently irrigation by the Aarka river is about 334 ha, of which
142 ha are occupied by citrus. The remaining 199 ha are cropped to wheat (35
ha), and rainfed lettuce (52 ha) in the winter and okra (33 ha) and potatoes
(79 ha) in the summer. In the future, when the cheaper and more dependable
irrigation water from the Bared river reaches the project area, it is
anticipated that farmers will increase their cropping intensity from the
current 104 percent to about 150 percent. This increase in cropping intensity
would be due to increases in summer crops, mainly cucurbits and summer
vegetables. The evolution of cropping patterns and intensities are indicated
in Annex 11, Table 1.
5.09        In addition to the changes in cropping patters and intensity, the
project area will also increase in size. About 42 ha of land, with about 18
ha of citrus, are now being evacuated by the military. Their irrigation
system will be rehabilitated and will receive water from the Bared diversion.
As a result the total cultivated area under irrigation for the Aarka section
of the scheme will increase from 334 to 376 ha.
5.10        South Bekaa.  According to the feasibility study, only about 920
ha of a total cultivable area of 1,622 ha are being cropped at present. The
area in fallow is located mostly in the Karaoun 1 and 2 areas, where soils are
relatively shallow and rocky. This lack of cultivation is due to several
factors, but mainly to the unavailability of irrigation water to cultivate
high return summer crops, the non-profitability of winter rainfed crops and
the degree of absentee owners who have migrated out of the area. The presently
cropped areas are cultivated to wheat (331 ha), potatoes (387 ha), summer
vegetables (156 ha) and watermelon (46 ha). Fallow occupies about 700 ha;
giving an overall cropping intensity of about 57 percent.
5.11          Once the irrigation system is completed and water becomes
available, it is anticipated that cropping will cover the whole area and that
over a period of 7 to 10 years, depending on the type of farms, cropping
intensity would increase to about 115 percent. In addition to the traditional
crops mentioned above, it is likely that some farmers would take up such crops
as winter broad beans (Annex 11, Table 1).



- 32 -
C. Yields and Production
5.12        Yammouneh.  As a result of the project, yields of wheat and
pulses, whose production system will change from occasionally irrigated, to
full supplemental irrigation, have been estimated to increase significantly
(Annex 11, Table 1); wheat yields increase from 1.8 t/ha to 3.5 t/ha and those
of pulses would increase from 1.2 t/ha to 1.8 t/ha. Irrigated potato yields
are estimated to incur modest increases from 20 t/ha to 25.5 t/ha. Ouasmieh
Ras El Ain. Yield increases have been estimated quite conservatively; they
vary from 12 t/ha to 14.4 t/ha for citrus, from 18 t/ha to 19.8t/ha for
bananas and from 20 t/ha to 22 t/ha for watermelon. Dannive. Yield of fruit
trees are expected to increase as a result of more reliable irrigation water,
better irrigation techniques and improved crop husbandry practices. Estimated
yield increases are highest for prunes (+30 percent) and apricots (+18
percent), which are now suffering the most from inadequate water supply.
Yield increases become smaller for the crops grown in higher altitudes and are
closer to the source of water; yields of pears, peaches and apples increase
respectively by 17, 17 and 8 percent. Akkar El Bared. Because farmers in
Aarka area are presently adopting the strategy of cultivating crops only when
there is a quasi guarantee that sufficient water is available to grow them, no
yield increases are anticipated for most crops in the future. The only
exception being citrus fruit which does suffer from lack of sufficient
irrigation water. For citrus fruit, yields are expected to increase by about
20 percent, from 15 t/ha to 18 t/ha. South Bekaa. Yield improvements would
vary from a maximum of 23 percent for summer vegetables to a minimum of 13
percent for potatoes. Yields of wheat and watermelon are expected to increase
respectively by 18 and 20 percent, from 4.5 to 5.3 t/ha and from 30 to 36
t/ha. Yields of major crops for the five sub-project areas are indicated in
Annex 11, Table 1.
VI. MARKETS. PRICES AND INCOMES
A. Marketing and Processing
Marketing
6.01        No major marketing problems are foreseen for expected incremental
project output, which would reach its peak in Year 9 of the project.
Incremental wheat production would only be a fraction of the total quantity of
cereals that Lebanon imports every year (over 440,000 tons). Import
statistics for pulses, bananas and onions which, in 1991, amounted to some
12,000 tons, 17,000 tons and 14,000 tons respectively, indicate that project
incremental output for these crops would also be easily absorbed within the
domestic market which is expected to recover as a result of gradual increase
in per capita incomes and also population growth. A substantial share of the
citrus, potato and vegetable incremental production is expected to be exported
to the Gulf market. This will be possible only if the private sector succeeds
in rehabilitating the marketing networks which have been dismantled during the
Gulf War and if the quality of Lebanese products allows them to compete with
the growing production of neighboring countries. Since the end of the war,
Lebanon has demonstrated its determination to regain its export market share
enjoyed in the 1970s. The strengthening of the extension and training and the
import/export quality control departments of MOA, as foreseen under the
project, would directly support farmers in reducing production costs and
producing high quality products suitable for export, while at the same time,



- 33 -
allowing Lebanese exporters to be more competitive and aggressive on the
export market as they were before the war.
6.02        Government purchases cover wheat, tobacco and sugarbeet.  The
marketing of the remaining agricultural produce is in the hands of the private
sector, mainly individuals and companies, with the limited participation of
some cooperatives. There are numerous buyers and sellers in the local market
and around 30 exporters. The large number of market intermediaries in
wholesaling and retailing indicates that entry to the market is not difficult
and is practically open to anyone. Main features regarding the marketing
system in Lebanon are given in Annex 12.
Processing
6.03        Import-export trade is often combined with the agroindustries
sector, which imports raw materials for processing and canning factories and
re-exports processed goods. Many private companies produce Lebanese food
specialties for the Near East market. It is expected that this sector will
have enough strength and innovative capacity to participate in the development
of a highly specialized and diversified type of agricultural production.
B. Prices
6.04        With few exceptions, prices are market responsive, and it could be
argued that production is, to a large extent, determined by market forces and
reflects Lebanon's competitive edge. This is particularly the case for most
crops grown in the project area, fruits, vegetables, cereals, etc. At present
tobacco, wheat and sugarbeet are the only exceptions. The Government purchases
tobacco from registered farmers at supported prices; it maintains a monopoly
over cigarette manufacture and regulates cigarette imports. Wheat and flour
imports by the private sector are regulated by the Cereals Office because of
subsidies on bread. At present, prices of agricultural output do not differ
considerably from their respective world market levels. On the input side,
there are no subsidies on fertilizers, pesticides and other farm inputs. The
local prices of fertilizers are slightly above world market prices. The list
of farmgate prices for agricultural outputs and inputs is given in Annex 11,
Table 7.
C. Incomes
6.05        Levels of farm income vary considerably with farm size, agro-
ecological conditions and levels of production techniques. On the basis of
crop models designed to approximate the real costs of production and crop
returns, farm models were prepared for each of the five sub-project areas, in
order to estimate the farm-level benefits that would accrue as a result of the
project. An analysis of these farm models indicates that incomes, in all farm
sizes, can be expected to increase significantly. Expected net farm incomes
for the with and without situations for the five sub-project areas are shown
in Annex 11, Table 2.
6.06        In Yammouneb, incomes for almost all farms are quite depressed,
particularly after Government enforced the banning of illicit crops. With the
project, farm incomes are expected to increase significantly by 321 and 360
percent respectively for small and medium farms. For large farms income would
increase by about 190 percent. In Ouasmieh, farm incomes are generated almost
exclusively from profitable irrigated crops. With the project, farm income
are expected to increase by 34 and 52 percent for small and medium farms



- 34 -
respectively. In Danniye farm incomes are expected to increase by 24, 14 and
8 percent respectively for small, medium and large farms. In Akkar El Bared,
future increases in farm incomes are expected to be more significant than in
Danniye; they will increase by 52, 54 and 54 percent respectively for small
medium and large farms. Finally, in South Bekaa, even though land holdings
are small and the population is relatively poor, most farmers do not cultivate
single holdings, but group a number of holdings into large farms
'exploitation". In the future, and because of the elimination of fallow on
large area (700 ha) of the subproject, farm income is expected to increase
significantly by about 200 percent for all types of farms.
D. Cost Recovery
6.07        General.  While there is a wide range of laws and regulations
which regulate water use and disposal in Lebanon, there are no references to
irrigation investment cost recovery and water charge calculation procedures.
However, despite weak management, the RWAs have been able to collect water
charges, at least partially, throughout the war. The present arrangements for
setting and recovering water charges are different from one scheme to another.
In recent years, water charge receipts for the Quasmieh system have covered
about 70 percent of O&M expenditures while for Yammouneh scheme receipts have
not exceeded 15 percent of O&M expenditures estimated at US$40/ha, due to very
low water charges and recovery rate (20 percent).
6.08        Cost Recovery Policy.  Water charges for irrigation are determined
by the RWAs' Boards and are subject to ratification by the MOHER or by the
Government. Responsibility for enforcement of the regulation is with the RWA
or RWC; these organizations are also responsible for the assessment and
collection of charges. Recently, the GOL has decided to stop subsidizing the
Authorities and Commissions which will have to cover their costs from the sale
of the services. With the support of the Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), the GOL is also working on the preparation of a
National Water Management Master Plan and on the restructuring of water
management institutions in the country. A new national water pricing policy
will result from these two studies.  The policy principles guiding the
preparation of the studies and those which will be applicable to the
irrigation schemes financed under the proposed project are detailed in a
Letter of Irrigation Sector Policy that has been officially submitted to the
Bank as a condition of negotiations (Annex 16). This letter indicates quite
advanced thinking on cost recovery issues relative to other countries. The
objective is to ultimately attain full cost recovery of both investment and of
O&M.   Assurances were obtained at neaotiations that: (i} GOL would ensure
that. upon completion of the rehabilitation of the five first schemes. water
charces be set at level sufficient to recover 100 Percent of the recurrent
costs of O&M and that recovery of rehabilitation investment costs would be
done in conformity with the policies and obiectives enunciated in the Lebanese
Government's policy letter dated May 26, 1994, for all irrigation schemes and
would commence six years after the completion of the rehabilitation works
fpara. 8.01 (k)l; and (ii) GOL would provide adeauate budaet allocations to
the relevant budgets of its public agencies, in a timely manner. to cover
recurrent cost that could not be covered through internal cash generation
[para. 8.01 (1)1.
6.09        Following current practices, water pricing will be tailored to the
specificity of each scheme, and will vary according to the type of service,
and to the season of irrigation. Water charges will be adjusted every year



- 35 -
and on-farm development costs will be left to the farmers. All rehabilitation
works to be financed under the project will include the installation of water
flow measurement devices, which will allow the introduction of volumetric
pricing in the use of irrigation water.
6.10        Farmers' Capacity to Pay.  Present water charges represent on
average 13 percent of farmers' production costs and about 7 percent of farm
income. However, these figures hide the fact that only about 20 percent of
the expenditures are devoted to maintenance, 80 percent being mainly used for
payment of the salaries of the RWAs and RWCs. Farm budget analysis shows that
under the project, incremental farm income would be substantial, O&M would be
made more efficient and water charges would be more directly related to O&M.
As a result, under the project, water charges would represent about 8 percent
of production costs and about 6 percent of farmers' income, which is
considered affordable (Annex 11, Table 3).
VII. BENEFITS. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01        The primary benefits of the project would be the incremental
agricultural production resulting from increased water use efficiency in the
irrigation schemes through improved water delivery. Higher agricultural
productivity would also be achieved as a result of the adoption by farmers of
improved agricultural practices regarding irrigation as well as better use of
inputs in particular fertilizers and pesticides. Annex 11, Table 1, shows the
estimated incremental production for the most important crops. Quality of
agricultural production is also expected to improve allowing Lebanon to regain
gradually the export market share, especially for citrus and vegetables,
enjoyed before the war. As a result of the increased agricultural production,
farmers' incomes are expected to increase significantly. This is reflected in
the indicative farm models which have been prepared for the different schemes
and are summarized in Annex 11, Table 2.
7.02        Overall project incremental production for major crops would be
substantial at full development (year 9 of the project) and would include
about 5,600 tons of wheat (+80 percent), 750 tons of pulses (+ 385 percent
because of very good prices and high demand), 20,100 tons of potatoes and
similar seasonal crops (+93 percent), 14,800 tons of summer vegetables
(represented by tomatoes in the models and made possible by increased
availability of water in the summer), 5,600 tonB of mixed citrus fruit (+20
percent), 9,500 tons of apples (+8 percent) and 3,400 tons of bananas (+19
percent).
7.03        In total, in the five schemes, 21,200 farm families are expected
to benefit from the project. About 3,630 extended farm families (41,000
people) in Yammouneh, 1,200 families (8,000 people) in Quasmieh, 9,300
families (83,700 people) in Danniye, 170 families (1,903 people) in Akkar and
6,900 land owners (41,340 people) in South Bekaa would benefit from the
project. While within the institutional strengthening component of the
project some activities, such as training and extension, are designed to meet
only the needs of the farmers in the project area with special emphasis on low
income farmers and women, other support services, including applied research,
input/output quality control and import/export quality control, are expected
to benefit producers and exporters outside these project areas. A financial



- 36 -
analysis has been carried out to show the level of farm income for both the
without- and with-project situations, taking into consideration typical farm
models.
B. Economic Analysis
7.04        Economic rates of return and expected net present values have been
estimated for the project as a whole, as well as for each of the five
subprojects (Annex 11). The analysis has been carried out for a period of 25
years, using constant 1994 prices. Economic costs include all proposed
investments and incremental operating costs with the exception of the cost of
environmental measures, where benefits are not readily quantifiable and part
of the cost of institutional strengthening and studies that is not directly
related to project benefits. CIF prices have been used to cost imported
equipment, and civil works have been costed at contract prices based on
current unit prices for work in Lebanon. Duties and taxes have been excluded.
For foreign costs, the current floating rate of 1US$ = LL1,690 has been used.
Cost allocation, details on incremental operating costs and replacement costs
are given in Annex 11. Incremental production costs relative to on-farm
activities, but excluding water charges, are already taken into account in the
net project benefits calculations. The economic benefits are based on the
anticipated incremental production that is expected to occur as a result of
the project and from savings in operating costs in areas currently irrigated
with pumped groundwater. Incremental production was aggregated from
representative farm models. Commodity prices are based on World Bank
projections. Crops which are either not internationally traded or for which
no world market reference price was obtainable, i.e., lettuce, onions,
apricots, cereal straw and legume, and hay, have been priced based on local
market prices.
7.05        The overall rate of return of the project is about 19 percent.
Table 7.1 below shows ERR for various schemes. The project is expected to
generate a net present value of US$24.1 million discounted at the opportunity
cost of capital of 12 percent. Tentative estimate of the ERR from the
information available in the RIA shows an average rate of return of the 28
small and medium schemes to be about 40 percent.



- 37 -
7.06        The results of the economic analysis are summarized below:
Table 7.1: Results of the Economic Analysis Per Scheme
Scheme             Economic    Share of    Gross Economic             Cropping
Rate of     total        Area  costs               Intensity
Return      financial   (ha)  per ha
costs (%)          (US$)       PY1   PY9   Change
Yammouneh          30           10           5,600  1,603        75   109   +45%
Quasmieh           23           13           3,800  1,875      151   203   +34%
Danniye            20            8           5,000  1,190      n.a/l n.a.  n.a.
Akkar              24            3             800  2,628       104   150   +44%
South Bekaa        16          20            2,000  6,592      57    115   +102%
Small and
Medium
Schemes            12          23           10,000             n.a/2 n.a.  n.a
Other                           23
Overall            19
Total                           100         27,200
Source: Annex 11
1/ Tree crops
2/ Not yet Available
Sensitivity Analvsis
7.07        The sensitivity analysis (Annex 11) indicates that economic rates
of return to the project and for the subprojects have been found to be quite
resistant to wide-ranging deviations from the base case assumptions. The
switching value analysis for the project as a whole shows that it would take a
40 percent decrease in benefits or a 70 percent increase in costs to lower the
economic rate of return to 12 percent. A 30 percent decrease in benefits
would reduce the overall rate of return to 14 percent. A 30 percent increase
in costs would decrease the rate of return to 15 percent. A two-year delay in
benefits would lower the rate of return to 15 percent. However the farm
budget analysis has been conservative in assuming that in most of the schemes,
the first benefits would occur only in year four. The risk of such a lag is,
therefore, considered limited.
C. Proiect Risks
7.08        Project risks are mainly associated with delays in construction,
institutional building and capacities, socioeconomic and environmental. As in
all construction works contracts, the principal risks concern increased costs



- 38 -
and delayed benefits. The risk that physical component will be delayed is
small as most rehabilitation design work is already substantially completed.
The project has been well prepared and the availability of detailed designs
and tender documents by project effectiveness, the use of reputable
contractors and the high standard of construction supervision to be provided
by the MOHER's WSIU, assisted by reputable consultants, will make it possible
to proceed smoothly with its implementation. Moreover, as indicated in the
sensitivity analysis (see para. 7.07), cost overruns and time delays in
project implementation will not have a major negative effect on the economic
viability of the project.
7.10        Full realization and sustainability of estimated benefits is also
dependent upon successful implementation of the water management program
proposed with complementary establishment of strong institutional support and
effective agricultural extension. Given the history of excessive water use in
the project areas, enforcement of operational rules for optimal water use will
require considerable effort by the GOL. Any serious failure in this regard
could cause a significant water shortage, particularly at the extremities of
the irrigation system, thereby causing benefit reduction. The project would
attempt to mitigate these problems by proposing a strong water management
program and by seeking GOL's strengthening of LRA and RWA with enforcement
authority.
7.11        Both the size and complexity of the proposed project appear to be
within the capacity of the public agencies involved.  The project will benefit
from the implementation capacity of CDR and MOHER which has been greatly
improved under the ERRP by the establishment of the PMU and the WSIU. The
sustainability of the development impact of the project will depend on the
success of the on-going restructuring of water management institutions,
initiated under the ERRP. The institutional strengthening by the project
would alleviate this risk by providing technical assistance and training to
the new institutions in the irrigation sector.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01        The following assurances from the Borrower were obtained during
negotiations:
(a)   GOL would select the small and medium schemes on the basis of
criteria acceptable to IBRD, including: (i) internal rate of
return equivalent to at least 12 percent; (ii) promotion of
community participation in the rehabilitation; (iii) impact on
rural income; (iv) absence of adverse impact on the environment;
and (v) absence of involuntary relocation of the local population
(para. 3.07)
(b)   For all expenses made on the basis of SOEs, GOL would (i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) ensure that all records
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least one year
after IBRD has received the last audit report; (iii) have the
records and accounts of the SOEs, including those for the Special



- 39 -
Account, for each fiscal year, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IBRD; and (iv) furnish to IBRD the audit reports,
including a separate opinion on the SOEs, no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.25).
(c)   CDR would: (i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the
IBRD; and (ii) furnish to the IBRD no later than six month after
the end of each year, certified copies of its financial statements
for such year and the reports of such audits (para. 3.30).
(d)   CDR would implement the project through its PMU and through
MOHER's WSIU, under arrangements similar to those already in place
for the ERRP, and would put in place alternative implementation
arrangements in agreement with IBRD, in case that any of the above
units ceases to exist (para. 4.03).
(e)   CDR would recruit no later than December 31, 1994, an irrigation
agronomist to assist MOHER in the carrying out of its project's
function, on terms of reference satisfactory to IBRD (para 4.03).
(f)   CDR, in coordination with MOHER, would prepare and submit to the
Bank a O&M program for the first year of the project would be
prepared no later than July 31, 1995 and implementation of the
plan would commence no later than December 31, 1995 (para. 4.07).
(g)   CDR would recruit, no later than March 31,1995, 5 applied research
experts, (para. 4.09), and no later than June 30, 1995, an
extension expert, (para 4.10), to assist MOA in the execution of
the project.
(h)   The TCC would coordinate the implementation of the IRMP with the
implementation of the ERRP and that representatives of the MOA,
GP, LRA and ARIL would be invited to attend the meetings of the
TCC (para. 4.12).
(i)   CDR, in coordination with MOHER and MOA, would: (i) prepare and
submit to IBRD, no later than December 31 of each year, a work
program together with a budget for the following year; and (ii)
submit, on a semi-annual basis commencing June 30, 1995, a report
describing the progress of the various components of the project
(para. 4.14).
(j)   CDR would prepare a detailed progress report for submission to
IBRD no later than October 31, 1997, for a joint mid-term review
no later than December 31, 1997 (para. 4.15).
(k)   GOL would ensure that upon completion of the rehabilitation of the
five first schemes, water charges be set at level sufficient to
recover 100 percent of the recurrent cost8 of O&M, and that



- 40 -
recovery of rehabilitation investment costs would be done in
conformity with the policies and objectives enunciated in the
Lebanese Government's policy letter dated May 26, 1994, for all
irrigation schemes and would commence six years after the
completion of the rehabilitation works (para. 6.08).
(1)   GOL would provide adequate budget allocations to the relevant
budgets of its public agencies, in a timely manner, to cover
recurrent cost that could not be covered through internal cash
generation (para. 6.08).
8.02        With the above aBsurances from the Government, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$57.23 million equivalent for a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. The Borrower would be the Government of the Lebanese Republic.
The Implementing Agency would be the CDR.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE YAMMOUNEH IRRIGATION SCHEME
I. THE SUBPROJECT AREA
1.1         Location, Climate and Soils.  The Yammouneh scheme is located in
the northeastern part of the Central Bekaa Valley, at the separation limit
between the Litani and Orontos river watersheds (Map IBRD 25865). The plain
is wide and covers more than 8,000 ha; it is at an average altitude of 950 m.
The climate is of the Continental type, with an average rainfall of 400-450
mm/year. Precipitation is erratic and mostly concentrated over five months,
from November to March. Summers are dry and hot and the average temperature in
June-July is 350C. Winters are cool with average minimum temperatures of below
0C in January. Frost risk spans from November till April, with an average of
20 days/year. Total annual evapo-transpiration is estimated at 1,550 mm/year.
The soils are colluvial and classified as red-Mediterranean soils. In the
plain they are deep, fairly well drained and do not show any salinity or
adverse characteristics. In the western part of the plain, where the terrain
is broken and hilly, soils are shallow with a calcareous strata of varying
thickness.
1.2         Population, Target Group and Land Tenure.   The population in the
Yammouneh area is relatively poor and numbers about 41,000 people . Per
capita and farm incomes have become among the lowest in Lebanon since the
prohibition to cultivate of cannabis and poppy (estimated farm income is about
U.S.$508 for small farms). Presently, only about half the population resides
permanently in the area, many of the active young people work in urban areas
for extended periods of time to supplement their families income. Farming
households directly related to the project area of 5,600 ha, have been
estimated at 3,700. Small farmers are by far the largest population group in
the Yammouneh scheme, representing 99 percent of the rural population of the
area and farming over 80 percent of the agricultural land. They can be
subdivided into two groups, the first with an average farm size of 0.85 ha (51
percent) and the other with farms of around 1.55 ha (48 percent). However,
there are also 25 large owners (1 percent), whose average farm size is over 50
ha; they control about 20 percent of the land. Farming systems adopted by
small and medium farmers generally integrate crops with small ruminants;
occasionally cattle, bee keeping and pisciculture can also be part of the
farming activities. Female participation in agriculture varies widely from
village to village, from 10 percent to 80 percent. In all cases women play an
active role in small ruminant husbandry and poultry.
1.3         Present Cropping Patterns and Yields.  In Yammouneh, present
cropping intensity is low (75 percent) due to the limited supply of surface
water during summer and the high cost of pumping from ground water. High risk
of late frosts in March and April further limit crop growth potential in the
northern Bekaa plain. Until 1991 the major rainfed and irrigated crops were
cannabis, white poppy, wheat (more than 10 percent of the area benefitted from
supplemental irrigation) and cucurbits (cucumber and melon), as well as



- 42 -                            Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
potatoes, onions, summer vegetables, etc. In 1992, GOL destroyed all illicit
crops and banned their future culture. It also promised to assist in
introducing alternative crops, through expansion of irrigation, and to
alleviate poverty through integrated rural development. Even though studies
indicate that under current cultural practices no crop can compete, in terms
of net return per ha, with cannabis and poppy, farmers could be persuaded to
make the transition. This entails that appropriate conditions are created
for them to grow irrigated legal crops (rehabilitation, extension, and
modernization of irrigation systems).
1.4         To help eradicate the cultivation of cannabis and poppy and
alleviate poverty, Government has placed the rehabilitation/ completion of the
Yammouneh scheme at the top of its priorities. Under strict control, farmers
have, so far, refrained from growing illicit crops and reverted to irrigated
vegetables, cucurbits and potatoes over 15 percent of the total cultivable
area, to rainfed wheat and pulses over 57 percent of the area and to
traditional stone fruit trees and grapes over 5 percent of the area; the rest
of the land (23 percent) is left in fallow. At present, farmers' most pressing
need is to increase the irrigated area, which presently stands at a little
over 1200 ha in the winter and about 1,000 ha ( of which 718 ha from tube
wells and not from the scheme) in the summer.
1.5         Agricultural machinery is available in the project area; most of
which was acquired by private farmers with profits from illicit crops. There
are 100 tractors with ploughing equipment, 10 potato planters, at least one
combine harvester, 3 threshers, 3 sprayers and 5 fertilizer spreaders. Wheat
and pulse seed drills are non existent. The existence of a large number of
tractors is due to their diversified utilizations on the farm and for
transport. Usually the owners of agricultural equipment hire out their
services (mainly for land preparation and spraying) to small farmer
1.6         Irrigation SYstem. The Yammouneh subproject area is supplied by
irrigation water from a series of springs situated in synclinal structural
depression along the mountainous slope in the West Bekaa valley. The average
annual flow of about 60 to 80 mcm, which is not regularly distributed during
the year, where discharge drops to 10 percent of peak spring season flow in
the dry months.
II. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND POTENTIAL
2.1         The single most important constraint to improved agricultural
production in the area is the inadequacy between availability and requirements
for water to sustain optimum plant growth and production. For rainfed crops,
mainly winter cereals and spring cucurbits, the erratically distributed
rainfall is not enough to produce decent yields consistently. For irrigated
crops, the first problem is that there is not enough water to grow large
surface areas under irrigation, secondly, even for the presently irrigated
crops, the water made available is not sufficient to optimize crop yields.
Much of the potentially available water is lost through the archaic and poorly
managed conveyance system. In addition, even if water availability was not a
constraint, agricultural productivity would not be maximized as a result of
inadequate crop husbandry practices, including poor on-farm water management,
inadequate use of expensive and doubtful quality inputs, lack of credit and a



- 43 -                             Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
risky marketing environment, where produce dumping from other countries is not
infrequent.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Obiectives
3.1         The main objectives of the project are to increase
agriculture-based income and employment in the Yammouneh subproject area and
achieve a sustainable and improved management of water resources, through (i)
the rehabilitation of surface irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) the
provision of basic public support services.
B. Proiect Description
3.2         The project consists of two major components: (a) the
rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure; and (b) the
provision of support to institutions involved in (i) irrigation and water
management; (ii) agricultural support services; and (iii) project
implementation and coordination. The later component is described in annex 6.
C. Detailed Features
3.3         Project Works would include: (i) improvements to tunnel entrance,
head gates and critical repairs to tunnel; (ii) repairs to covered canal,
modernization of 20 turnouts on covered canal, sealing of about 30 outlets,
and replacement of gates for six offtake at head of chute; (iii) construction
of a new open chute to ensure efficient conveyance of irrigation water from
the end of the covered canal to the Bekaa plain with a 3.5 m3/sec capacity or
rehabilitation and repairs to existing chute (and stilling basin and
distribution system at Chifla); (iv) rehabilitation and repair of concrete
lining on four main canals (38 km) with structures and gates; (v) repair or
lining of concrete and earth canals in the chute area (18 km) and plain area
secondary and tertiary canals (80 km) with outlets and gates; and (vi)
rehabilitation of the access road to the head of the chute.
D. Proiect Cost
3.4         The base total cost for rehabilitating the irrigation
infrastructure at Yammouneh would amount to U.S.$6.16 million. Breakdown of
costs per sub-category are detailed in appendix 1.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1         Implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Works would be the
responsibility of the existing Water Sector Implementation Unit (WSIU). The
WSUI is under the authority of MOHER's Director General for Investments and is
assisted by a team of international consultants (WSIUC) financed for a period
of three years by the European Community (EC). Rehabilitation works would be
contracted out to private contractors. The WSIU would have full
responsibility and accountability for the technical aspects of the
rehabilitation works to be financed by the project. Procurement and
disbursement would be handled by CDR' Program Management Unit (PMU).



-44-                              Annex I
Page 4 of 6
4.2         Overation and Maintenance of main headwork, main and secondary
canals, would be initially under the responsibility of existing Baalbek-Hermel
Water Authority and would be automatically transferred to the new Regional
Water Irrigation Authority (Bekaa RWIA) as soon as it is established. Water
users associations organized around the selection and hiring of ditch riders
(Shawi), would be responsible for O&M of tertiary canals. The composition of
the Water Committee's board, currently designated by the Minister of Hydraulic
and Electrical resources, will be revised to include representatives of
farmers.
4.3         Water Users' Involvement.  Although farmers are currently involved
in the operation of the schemes through the designation of the Shawis, they
are not fully involved in the management of the schemes. This has two major
consequences: (i) farmers are not aware of the real cost of irrigation O&M,
especially when they see no improvement in water distribution and are
therefore sometime reluctant to pay the corresponding water charges, and (ii)
simple O&M tasks, which could be more effectively handled by farmers
themselves are neglected by the Authorities. To increase the role and
responsibilities of farmers in the management of downstream irrigation
systems, measures need to be taken to allow for their involvement in the
management of schemes through the support and empowerment of existing WUAs
grouping farmers at the outlet or village level.
4.4         The rehabilitation sequence would include, as a necessary step,
beneficiaries' review and approval of rehabilitation proposals; this dialogue
has been initiated by a social study conducted in April-May 1994. To improve
the dialogue between the different areas of the scheme, a Scheme Water
Management Committee (SWMC) would be created. The SWMC would comprise
representatives from the Water Authority and representatives designated by the
WUAs. The SWMC would make decisions based on discussions in which users'
representatives would voice their demands; and users would receive guidance on
management of the secondary and tertiary networks.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM INCOME
A. Expected Changes in Croppina Patterns
5.1         Present cropping patterns indicate (see Annex 11, Table 1) that of
a total of 5,600 ha of cultivable land only about 3,995 ha are being cropped
to annuals, giving an overall low cropping intensity of 75 percent. In terms
of cultivated area, winter rainfed subsistence crops are the most important
(see table 1), wheat occupies 3,025 ha and pulses 160 ha, representing
together about 80 percent of the total cropped area. The most important fully
irrigated crops are potatoes (520 ha), winter and summer vegetables (290 ha)
and fruit trees (305 ha). Since the eradication of cannabis and papaver,
irrigated crops, particularly summer vegetables, potatoes and cucurbits have
become the major source of cash for farmers in the project area. The area
devoted to these crops is rather limited, because the water conveyance system
covers only a portion of the cultivable area and because of the lack of
sufficient irrigation water in the summer. In the zones where some irrigation
canals remain, farmers provide winter wheat and pulse crops with supplemental
irrigation.



- 45 -                            Annex I
Page 5 of 6
5.2         Because irrigation water availability will continue to be limited
during the summer months, even after the rehabilitation of the scheme, it is
anticipated that many farmers will take advantage of the abundant water supply
available in the winter to intensify their farming operation by eliminating
the fallow, significantly expanding the area under wheat and pulses and
providing their winter crops with supplemental irrigation. Summer crops will
benefit from a more reliable supply of irrigation water and better irrigation
techniques (better levelling, irrigation dosage and frequency). It is
expected that the area under summer irrigation will expand by about 1,000 ha,
corresponding to the amount of water saved through improved conveyance
efficiency and better on-farm water management. At full development it is
anticipated that about 5,295 ha will be under cultivation to annual crops in
Yammouneh, giving an overall cropping intensity of 109 percent. Because of
the high demand for these commodities, the area devoted to winter pulses would
expand significantly at the expense of winter wheat, which has a lower return
per hectare. In the summer, the additional irrigated area will be devoted to
varying types of crops, depending on market demand and prices. However,
because of their particular adaptation to the area, potatoes and cucurbits
will continue to be major crops.
B. Yields and Production
5.3         As a result of the project, yields of wheat and pulses, whose
production system will change from occasionally irrigated, to full
supplemental irrigation, have been estimated to increase significantly (see
Annex 11, Table 1.); wheat yields increase from 1.8t/ha to 3.5t/ha and those
of pulses would increase from 1.2t/ha to 1.8t/ha. Irrigated potatoes and
vegetable crop yields are estimated to incur modest increases from 20t/ha to
25.5t/ha.
C. Incomes
5.4         Farm incomes were estimated by the feasibility study and further
reviewed during the appraisal mission. They vary considerably with farm size
and levels of production techniques. Incomes for almost all farms are quite
depressed, particularly after Government enforced the banning of illicit
crops. At present the value of estimated incomes (see Annex 11, Table 2)
ranges from LL 863,876 ($511) in small (0.85 ha)farms to LL 1,415,497 ($838)
in medium (1.55 ha) farms and LL45,066,000 ($26,666) in the rare (less than 1
percent) large farms (50 ha). On the basis of crop models designed to
approximate the real costs of production and crop returns, farm models were
prepared for the sub-project area in order to estimate the farm-level benefits
that would accrue as a result of the project. In the with-project situation
farm incomes are expected to increase significantly by 321 and 360 percent
respectively for small, medium farms. For large farms income would increase
by about 190 percent.



LE8ANON
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 2. Ysmmouneh Scheme
Detailed Coste
(USS '000)
Base Cost                                          Totals Including Contingencies
1995     1996    1997      1998    1999    2000    Total   1995    1996    1997            1998     1999    2000    Total
I. Xnve.t nt Costs
A. Civil Works
1. H*adworks
Tunnel rehabilitation                            98.3         -        -        -        -        -    98.3   108.7          -        -         -        -        -   108.7
Rehabilitation of covered Canal                  30.5    30.5          -        -        -        -    61.0    33.7    34.4           -         -        -        -    68.1
Offtakes along Chute                                -    15.3    15.3           -        -        -    30.7         -    17.3    17.7           -        -        -    35.0
Chute Channel                                   442.4   442.4          -        -        -        -   884.9   489.1   499.9           -         -        -        -   989.0
Stilling Basin Rehabilitation                    32.9    32.9          -        _        -        -    65.9    36.4    37.2           -         _ -               -    73.6
Subtotal Hsadworks                                 604.2   521.2    15.3           -         -        - 1,140.7   667.9   588.9    17.7            -        -        - 1,274.5
2. Irrigati    Systm
Chute Area Canals                                   -   156.0   318.5           -        -        -   474.5         -   176.2   367.8           -        -        -   544.0
Plain Area Main Canals                          417.9 1,420.7 1,387.3           -        -        - 3,225.8   461.9 1,605.2 1,601.9             -        -        - 3,669.0
Secondary and Tertiary Canals                       -    96.3   385.4   289.0            -        -   770.7    1         110.9   453.2   347.4           -        -   911.5
Subtotal Irrigation System                         417.9 1,673.0 2,091.2   289.0             -        - 4,471.0   461.9 1,892.2 2,422.9   347.4             -        - 5,124.5
3. Service Road (to the head of tha chute)          98.3         -        -        -_        _             98.3   110.7          -        -        -        -        -   110.7
Subtotal Civil Works                                1,120.3 2,194.2 2,106.5   289.0             -        - 5,710.0 1,240.6 2,481.1 2,440.6   347.4              -        - 6,509.7
B. Buildings
Rehabilitation of Old Offices                       29.5         -        -        -        _         _    29.5    31.7          -        -        -        -        -    31.7
Nwe  Offices                                            -   118.0         -         -        -        -   118.0         -   129.6         -        -        -         -   129.6
Subtotal Buildings                                      29.5    118.0         -        -        -        -   147.5      31.7   129.6         -         -        -        -   161.3
C. Studies, Designs, and Supervision of Works    60.0   120.0   120.0                  -        -        -   300.0    67.6   138.1   141.1             -        -        -   346.8
Total                                                     1,209.8 2,432.2 2,226.5   289.0             -        - 6,157.5 1,339.8 2,748.8 2,581.8   347.4              -        - 7,017.8
Sun Jun 05 14:55:01 1994
rD
" X
23S
2-1 Yaimnouneh Scheme



- 47 -                            Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE OUASMIEH/RAS EL-AIN IRRIGATION SCHEME
I. SUBPROJECT AREA
1.1         Location. Climate and Soils.  The Quasmieh/Ras El-Ain (QRA) scheme
is located in the southern coastal area of the country. The QRA scheme was
planned to irrigate the narrow plain extending from Saida in the North to
Nakoura in the South. It includes about 3,850 ha of agricultural lands
situated between 0 and 70 meter above sea level. The climate is Mediterranean,
with relatively mild winters characterized by high precipitation and moderate
temperatures. Average yearly rainfall amounts to about 750 mm, concentrated
mainly from December to early March. The average summer temperature is 270C.
Despite the occurrence of high winter rains the area remains in need of
irrigation water for six to seven months per year. Total evapo-transpiration
is estimated at 1165 mm/year. Soils are mostly deep and generally loamy with a
high clay content, although they range from loamy clay to heavy clay loams.
They are generally calcareous, non-saline and non-sodic. Most soils are
suitable for irrigated agriculture.
1.2         Population. Target Group and Land Tenure.  The total population in
the QRA area is about 98,000, resident in over 24 villages excluding the city
of Sour. The agricultural population totals almost 19,500, and land is by far
the foremost source of income. Absentee land owners constitute some 52
percent, holding around 20 percent of the land. Approximately 1,200 farming
households are found in the 3,900 ha dominated by the Quasmieh/Ras El-Ain
irrigation scheme. Holdings vary from less than 0.5 ha to more than 20 ha per
family; for the more representative categories average farm size is around 1.2
ha for the small farmers (73 percent of the farmers and 26 percent of the
land) and 9.2 ha for the medium and large land owners (27 percent of the
farmers and 74 percent of the land). Small farmers frequently rent land from
the large owners, or work under crop sharing arrangements. Large owners
usually entrust daily management of their farms to a foreman who, in addition
to his salary, usually receives free housing and a percentage of the annual
production. In some large holdings, agricultural production techniques are
often exceptionally advanced, highly specialized ( cold-resistant,tissue-
cultured banana varieties, high producing citrus cultivars, floriculture etc.)
and allow these farmers to operate at a level of productivity significantly
higher than that of the average farmer in the area.
1.3         Present Cropping Patterns and Yields,    Agricultural production
in the area is relatively intensive, it is, however, suffering from
unorganized water distribution and low crop husbandry practices. Major crops
include citrus fruit (oranges, mandarins,grapefruit and particularly lemons),
which covers about 60 percent of the total cultivable area and bananas (21
percent) at lower elevations (below 50 m), where risks of frost are rare.
Some relatively new plantations of mango and loquat are expanding slowly.



- 48 -                             Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
Intercropping seasonal vegetable crops into young citrus or banana plantations
is frequent; cucumbers, tomato, aubergine, melon and zucchinis are used
frequently to get revenues before the perennial fruit trees enter into full
production.
1.4         Cropping patterns vary according to farm size: small farmers
mostly grow vegetables and bananas, while the medium to large farms
predominantly cultivate citrus and often, bananas in association with citrus.
The present situation is characterized by the poor quality of citrus orchards,
which is a direct consequence of the lack of effective pest control measures
and of suitable husbandry techniques. Most serious agronomic constraints are
related to pest control techniques which are very costly but not always
effective particularly for citrus and greenhouse cultivation of vegetables.
Many farmers sell their crops (vegetables, oranges and bananas) while still on
the trees, thus avoiding labor-intensive harvesting and grading. Present
cropping intensity and yields are presented in the Annex 11, Table 1.
1.5         Irrigation System.  The main source of irrigation water for the
Quasmieh/Ras El-Ain is primarily the Litani River System in addition to the
Ras El Ain springs which are free flowing artisian aquifers with a relatively
stable flow. Groundwater is also used to supplement the shortfall from canal
supplies, particularly at the tail end of the main canals with an estimated 20
percent of the Quasmieh scheme relying on supplemental groundwater supplies.
II. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND POTENTIAL
2.1         In Quasmieh, the non-reliability of water and the long irrigation
intervals are a major constraints to increased productivity. To alleviate the
risk of water stress, farmers tend to systematically irrigate their orchards.
This causes high humidity related plant diseases (Fungal attacks,Gummosis) in
addition to the existing viral infections (Posorosis) and contributes to the
rapid leaching of plant nutrients. Because of the varying potency of
pesticides and the lack of proper pesticide applications, productivity, in
many orchards suffers from extensive insect damage. The second most important
problem in Quasmieh and all the other citrus producing areas of Lebanon,
relates to the uncertainties of marketing, which has been affected by the Gulf
war and the deterioration of the quality standards of Lebanese citrus produce.
2.2         The establishment and control of Quality standards for citrus
produce, destined for export would help Lebanese fruit regain its previous
good reputation and markets. It is also anticipated that a well focussed
support to agricultural production and a better control of pesticide quality
and use, respectively by MOA's Pesticide Control and Quarantine Service and
its Extension Service, would improve crops husbandry practices and yield as
well as reduce the hazards to the environment from potential excessive uses of
pesticides.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1         The main objectives of the project are to increase the income of
farmers in the Quasmieh/Ras El Ain area and achieve a sustainable and improved



- 49 -                           Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
management of water resources, through (i) the rehabilitation of surface
irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of basic public support
services.
B. Proiect Description
3.2         The project consists of two major components: (a) rehabilitation
and modernization of irrigation infrastructure; and (b) provision of support
to institutions (see Annex 6) involved in (i) irrigation and water management;
(ii) agricultural support services; and (iii) project implementation and
coordination.
C. Detailed Features
3.3         Works to be financed by the project would consist of : (i) repair
and reconstruction of the Zrarieh diversion structure; (ii) reconstruction of
damaged segments of the main canals, with related structures and water control
equipment; (iii) reconstruction of the Zahrani siphons (750 m), to irrigate
300 ha at the tail end; (iv) construction of a diversion weir on the Litani to
divert water to the existing pump station; (v) rehabilitation of the existing
pump station of Quasmieh and provision of five new pump sets; (vi)
installation of a high voltage power line (15 km) to the Quasmieh pump
station; (vii) rehabilitation and concrete lining of secondary canals (25 km);
(viii) reconstruction and equipping of about 100 turnouts with new calibrated
offtakes on the main canals and closing up about 300 unofficial offtakes; (ix)
construction of 8 km of lateral canals to feed directly into secondary or
tertiary canals: (x) other works, such as repairs to the Quasmieh siphon,
opening of expropriated land along the main canals, construction of an 8 km
long service road to the Zrarieh diversion structure, weed clearing and
desilting of canals.
D. Prolect Cost
3.4         The total base cost for rehabilitating the irrigation
infrastructure at Quasmish would amount to U.S.$7.84 million. Breakdown of
costs per sub-category are detailed in appendix 1.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1         Execution of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Works would be the
responsibility of the existing MOHER's Water Sector Implementation Unit
(WSIU), which would work in close cooperation with the Litani River Authority.
The WSUI is under the authority of MOHER's Director General for Investments
and is assisted by a team of international consultants (WSIUC) financed for a
period of three years by the European Community (EC). Rehabilitation works
would be contracted out to private contractors. The WSIU would have full
responsibility and accountability for the technical aspects of the
rehabilitation works to be financed by the project. Procurment and
disbursements would be handled by CDR's Program Management Unit(PMU).
4.2         Operation and Maintenance of main headwork, main and secondary
canals, would remain under the Litani River Authority. Water users



- 50 -                             Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
associations organized around the selection and hiring of ditch riders
(Shawi), would be responsible for O&M of tertiary canals. The composition of
the Water Committee's board, currently designated by the Minister of Hydraulic
and Electrical resources, will be revised to include representatives of
farmers.
4.3         Water Users' Involvement.  Although farmers are currently involved
in the operation of the schemes through the designation of the Shawis, they
are not fully involved in the management of the schemes. This has two major
consequences: (i) farmers are not aware of the real cost of irrigation O&M,
especially when they see no improvement in water distribution and are
therefore sometime reluctant to pay the corresponding water charges, and (ii)
simple O&M tasks, which could be more effectively handled by farmers
themselves are neglected by the Authorities. To increase the role and
responsibilities of farmers in the management of downstream irrigation
systems, measures need to be taken to allow for their involvement in the
management of schemes through the support and empowerment of existing WUAs
grouping farmers at the outlet or village level.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM INCOME
A. Expected Changes in Croppina Patterns
5.1         Existing cropping patterns ( Annex 11, Table 1) make citrus the
most important crop in the area with 2,325 ha or about 60 percent of the
cultivable 3,850 ha. Bananas are next in importance, with 825 ha, followed by
watermelon (and other vegetable crops), with 500 ha, and the citrus/banana
association, with 370 ha. The poor condition of the conveyance network and
the lack of sufficient irrigation water moving through the system in the
summer, has compelled many of the farmers who can afford it, to dig tubewells
in order to make up for the short fall in surface water availability. This
has made irrigation frequency low and dosage very high, causing the leaching
of essential nutrients from the soil, increasing the incidence of cryptogamic
and other diseases, hence increasing production costs and reducing crop
yields. The incidence of frost which either reduced yields or totally
destroyed banana plantations is also a constraint to banana production.
5.2         Many of the large farmers in the Quasmieh/Ras El Ain area are
financially secure and highly receptive to new production techniques and plant
materials. Some have established contacts with public and private research
institutions abroad to obtain and introduce, inter alia, tissue-cultured, cold
tolerant banana cultivars, tropical fruit and ornamental trees as well as
flowers. Hence, banana cultivation and specialty crops (kiwi, passion fruit,
mango) are expected to expand at the expense of citrus. As a result of
increased urbanization and touristic activity, vegetable growing would very
likely see further expansion (+30 percent) and intensification, through green
houses, protective plastic tunnels and intercropping. The total area
cultivated in annual crops is expected to increase from 500 ha to 660 ha even
when the area cultivable to annual will decrease slightly from 330 ha to 325
ha. As a result, the cropping intensity would increase from 151 percent to
203 percent.



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
B. Yields and Production
5.3         Yield increases have been estimated quite conservatively, they
vary from 12t/ha to 14.4t/ha for citrus, 18t/ha to 19.8t/ha for bananas and
20t/ha to 22t/ha for watermelon.
C. Incomes
5.4         Farm incomes were estimated by the feasibility study and further
reviewed during the appraisal mission. They vary considerably with farm size
and levels of production techniques. Farm incomes are generated almost
exclusively from profitable, irrigated crops. Their level is much higher than
those at Yammouneh, they range from LL 4,156,170 ($2,459) for small farms
irrigated from tube wells to LL 5,271,770 ($3,119) in small farms irrigated
with surface water and to LL 17,928,240 ($10,608) in medium sized farms
irrigated from surface water. On the basis of crop models designed to
approximate the real costs of production and crop returns, farm models were
prepared for the sub-project area in order to estimate the farm-level benefits
that would accrue as a result of the project. In the future farm income would
increase by 34 percent to LL 7,088,440 ($4,194) for small farms and by 52
percent to LL 27,277,840 ($16,141) for medium farms.



LEBANON
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 1. Quasmish Scheo
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost                                          Totals Including Contingencies
1995     1996    1997    1998       1999     2000    Total   1995    1996         1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
1. Inveetment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. Readworks
Diversion dam at Zrarie                         -    51.6    51.6           -        -        -   103.2         -    58.3    59.6           -        -        -   117.9
Header canal                                 20.6     51.6    31.0          -        -        -   103.2    22.8       58.3    35.8          -        -        -   116.9
MIovable dam construction                    51.6   129.0    77.4           -        -        -   258.1    57.1   145.8    89.4             -        -        -   292.3
Pumping station civil works                  72.3   216.8    72.3           -        -        -   361.3    79.9   244.9    83,4             -        -        -   408.3
Quasm.ih siphon                              10.3    31.0    10.3           -        -        -    51.6    11.4       35.0    11.9          -        -        -    58.3
Zahrani siphon rehabilitation                   -   103.2   103.2           -        -        -   206.5         -   116.6   119.2           -        -        -   235.8
Access road to the diversion dam                -         -   139.5   232.5          -        -   372.0         -         -   161.1   274.4          -        -   435.5
subtotal Readworks                             154.9   583.3   485.3   232.5            -         - 1,456.0   171.2   659.0   560.4   274.6             -        - 1,665.0
2. lrrigation Soheme Quamiah
North and South branch main canals    221.2   752.1   805.2   530.9                  -        - 2,309.5   249.1   865.5   947.0   638.1              -        - 2,699.8
Offtakes rehabilitation                         -    77.7    77.7           -        -        -   155.3         -    89.4    91.3           -        -        -   180.7
Sealing of illogal offtakes                     -    78.2    78.2           -        -        -   156.3         -    89.9    91.9           -        -        -   181.9
Construction of lateral canals                  -    78.7   157.3   236.0            -        -   471.9         -    88.9   181.6   278.5            -        -   549.0
Secondary canals rehabilitation                 -   206.5   412.9   412.9            -        - 1,032.3         -   233.3   476.8   487.3            -        - 1,197.4
Pilot irrigation improvement blocks             -   103.2   103.2   103.2            -        -   309.7         -   124.2   126.9   129.7            -        -   380.9
Subtotal Irrigation Sch-me Quaxeb              221.2 1,296.3 1,634.5 1,283.0            -         - 4,435.1   249.1 1,491.2 1,915.7 1,533.6             -        - 5,189.6
3. Rae El Ain Canal rahab.
North and South branch canals                   -    35.4    76.7           -        -        -   112.1         -    40.0    88.6           -        -        -   128.5
Offtakes rehabilitation                         -    10.3    20.6           -        -        -    31.0          -    11.7    23.8          -        -        -    35.5
Sealing of illegal offtakes                     -    10.4    31.3           -        -        -    41.7         -    12.0    36.8           -        -        -    48.8
Construction of lateral canals                  -    36.9    36.9    73.7            -        -   147.5         -    41.7    42.6    87.0            -        -   171.2
Tertiary canals                                 _    59. 0    59.0    59.0                - _      177.0        -    67.9    69.4    70.9            -        -   208.2                                          U'
Subtotal Rae El Ain Caal1  rehab.                   -   152.0   224.5   132.7           -         _   509.2         -   173.2   261.1   157.9           -        _   592.2
subtotal Civil Works                              376.1 2,031.6 2,344.3 1,648.3             -        - 6,400.3   420.3 2,323.4 2,737.2 1,966.0              -        - 7,446.9
B. buildings
Rehabilitation old offices                          -    20.6         -        -        -        -    20.6          -    22.7         -        -        -        -    22.7
New offices                                         -        -   123.9         -        -         -   123.9         -        -   139.1         -        -        -   139.1
Subtotal Buildinge                                           20.6   123.9         -         -        -   144.5         -    22.7   139.1           -        -        -   161.8
C. Irrigation Equipmnt
Hydrcnechanical                                     -        -      7.8      7.8        -         -    15.5             -   -       9.1      9.3        -        -    18.4
Pumping Station                                     -        -   388.9   388.9          -        -   777.7          -        -   457.3   467.4          -        -   924.7
Electric power supply                               -        _        -   123.6         -         -   123.6         -        _    I        148.6        _        -   148.6
Subtotal Irrigation Equipmnt                           -        -   396.6   520.2           -        -   916.8         -        -   466.4   625.3           -        - 1,091.7
D. Studies, design end supervision                  76.9   192.3   115.4           -        -        -   384.6    86.6   221.3   135.7             -        -        -   443.7
Total                                                   453.0 2,244.6 2,980.2 2,168.5             -        - 7,846.3    506.9 2,567.4 3,478.5 2,591.2            -         - 9,144.0
Sun Jun 05 14:54:53 1994
(JQ
0 (D
C7%t
1-1 Quasaieh Scheme



53 -                            Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE DANNIYE IRRIGATION SCHEME
I. THE SUBPROJECT AREA
1.1         Location. Climate and Soils.  The Danniye irrigation scheme is
located on the north-western flank of Mount Lebanon, 20 Km east of the town of
Tripoli. The area is in essence an escarpment called the " Sukkar Valley"
where terraces have been established on steep slopes varying from 10 to 30
percent. The width of these terraces averages at about 4 m and rarely reach
12 m; their altitude from sea level varies between 290 to 1200 m.
Precipitation averages annually at about 1,100 mm and is distributed over a
period of six months (November through April) with little or no rainfall
during the rest of the year. Fruit trees production cannot be sustainable
without summer irrigations. Monthly mean temperatures vary from a minimum of
6.5 degrees in February to maximum of 22 degrees in August, relative humidity
is almost consistently at about 60 percent. As elevation increases
temperatures are no longer influenced by the mediterranean sea and become
continental. Risks of spring frosts are limited, because of the morning and
evening air movements that characterize this mountainous region. Closer to
the lower elevations and on the valley flank facing south, fruit ripen early
and benefit from significantly higher prices. Those located at the highest
elevation are closer to the sources of water and better irrigated; they are
also of good quality and are actively sought by traders. Soils are of
volcanic origin on the terraces facing south and of calcarious origin on the
terraces facing north.
1.2         Population, Target Group and Land Tenure. There are about 91,500
people living permanently in the project area, in the summer the total
population increases to about 153,000 people. The additional population is
mainly made up of tourists and owners of relatively large farms, who move to
their land only during the warm months of the year. The feasibility study
estimates the total number of farming households in the 4,800 ha project area
at about 9,300, of which about 5,000 derive their income solely from
agriculture. The others, who own non viable small pieces of land, cannot make
a living for their relatively large families (about 9 persons per household on
the average) and are compelled to seek other employment. Family labor
provides more than 90 percent of the labor requirements of small farms, more
than 50 percent of medium farms and less than 10 percent of the labor
requirements of large farms. The average farm size is around 0.52 ha.
However, a sampling of 192 properties, indicated that 39 percent of farms had
a size of less than one ha, 48 percent were between 1 and 4 ha and 13 percent
were over 4 ha. Geographically small farms are located in the lower
elevations, below 600 m, medium farms were in the middle and larger farms were
above the 1,000 m elevation.
1.3         Present Croppina Pattern and Yields. In Danniye, the whole project
area is occupied by fruit trees. The major species include prunes and
apricots in the lower areas, pears and peaches in the middle elevation areas
and apples in the high areas. Tree densities per hectare are extremely high



Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
and may reach up to 1600 trees/ha. In addition to irrigation water shortages,
particularly in the lower areas of the scheme, present inefficient cultural
practices are not conducive to maximizing crop productivity. Annual plant
mortality is also reportedly high, farmers have to replace about 3 percent of
their tree population every year.
1.4         Because orchards are made up of tree mixtures, it would not be
meaningful to express yields per unit area for the whole mixture. Through the
surveys conducted for the feasibility study, the consultants were able to
derive yields per hectare for each of the major fruit tree species, these are
indicated in Annex 11, Table 1. Yields are generally good where irrigation
water and cultural practices are rational. Differences between successful and
less successful farmers can be noticed in the level of yields ( up 50% more),
but also in the quality of the produce and therefore its acceptability by
traders and exporters. Contrary to wide spread beliefs, good quality fruits
has no marketing problems.
1.5         Irrigation System. The Danniye scheme is irrigated from two main
and two secondary springs with large variations of flow between spring and
summer season (40 to 0.35 m3/sec). Due to poor condition of conveyance
system, 50 percent of water is lost in conveyance
II. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND POTENTIAL
2.1         The major constraints to increasing agricultural productivity and
farm incomes stem from the lack of sufficient irrigation water in the summer,
particularly for the lower and middle areas of the scheme and the inadequate
cultural techniques followed by many farmers in the project area. In the
downstream areas of the scheme water does not always reach fruit orchards.
Instead of providing the 4 to 5 irrigations required by their crops, farmers
are able to irrigate only once or at most twice a year because of water losses
during conveyance. Reduction in crop productivity resulting from the poor
conveyance efficiency would be resolved by the proposed rehabilitation works.
2.2         Traditional irrigation methods, where water cascades from one
terrace to the next, and because of poor water reliability, farmers have had
the tendency to over-irrigate when the water was available. This has caused
drainage problems, plant diseases such as root-rot and leaching of plant
nutrients, which in turn reduced crop yields. A well focused on-farm
technology testing program would demonstrate to farmers irrigation and crop
husbandry techniques that would improve their crop productivity.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives
3.1         The main objectives of the project are to increase agricultural
income of farmers in the Danniye area and achieve a sustainable and improved
management of water resources.
B. Project Description
3.2         The project consists of two major components: (a) rehabilitation
and modernization of irrigation infrastructure; and (b) the provision of



- 55 -                            Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
support to institutions dealing with irrigation water distribution, providing
support to farmers and project implementation. The institutional support
activities financed by the project are described in annex 6.
C. Detailed Features
3.3         In Danniye, project works would include: (i) rehabilitation and
construction of seven concrete main canals (42.2 km) with related structures
and gates to improve irrigation and water availability to about 1,700 ha; (ii)
rehabilitation and construction of associated secondary canals (41.4 km) with
outlets and gates; (iii) improvements to headworks and urgent selective
repairs and rehabilitation for the remaining main canals of the schemes; (iv)
containment and improved diversion for Buraisa spring; and (v) construction of
10 km of service roads. The project will also rehabilitate critical works on
main headworks and main canals over the entire scheme of 5,000 ha area.
D. Prolect Cost
3.4         The base cost for rehabilitating the irrigation infrastructure at
Danniye would amount to U.S.$4.92 million. Breakdown of costs per sub-
category are detailed in appendix 1.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1         Implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Works would be the
responsibility of the existing MOHER's Water Sector Implementation Unit
(WSIU). The WSUI is under the authority of MOHER's Director General for
Investments and is assisted by a team of international consultants (WSIUC)
financed for a period of three years by the European Community (EC).
Rehabilitation works would be contracted out to private contractors. The WSIU
would have full responsibility and accountability for the technical aspects of
the rehabilitation works to be financed by the project. Procurement and
disbursement would be handled by CDR's Program Management Unit (PMU).
4.2          Oleration and Maintenance of main headwork, main and secondary
canals, would be initially under the responsibility of existing Water Comittee
and would be automatically transferred to the new North Lebanon Water
Irrigation Authority as soon as it is established. Water users associations
organized around the selection and hiring of ditch riders (Shawi), would be
responsible for 0&M of tertiary canals. The composition of the Water
Committee's board, currently designated by the Minister of Hydraulic and
Electrical resources, will be revised to include representatives of farmers.
4.3         Water Users' Involvement.  Although farmers are currently involved
in the operation of the schemes through the designation of the Shawis, they
are not fully involved in the management of the schemes. This has two major
consequences: (i) farmers are not aware of the real cost of irrigation O&M,
especially when they see no improvement in water distribution and are
therefore sometime reluctant to pay the corresponding water charges, and (ii)
simple O&M tasks, which could be more effectively handled by farmers
themselves are neglected by the Authorities. To increase the role and
responsibilities of farmers in the management of downstream irrigation
systems, measures need to be taken to allow for their involvement in the



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
management of schemes through the support and empowerment of existing WUAs
grouping farmers at the outlet or village level.
4.4         The rehabilitation sequence would include, as a necessary step,
beneficiaries' review and approval of rehabilitation proposals. This dialogue
will be initiated by a social study that MOHER intend to conducted in 1994.
To improve the dialogue between the different areas of the scheme, a Scheme
Water Management Committee (SWMC) would be created. The SWMC would comprise
representatives from the Water Authority and representatives designated by the
WUAs. The SWMC would make decisions based on discussions in which users'
representatives would voice their demands; and users would receive guidance on
management of the secondary and tertiary networks.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM INCOME
A. Expected Chanaes in Cropping Patterns
5.1          Surveys conducted by consultants for the feasibility study
indicate that the whole project area is planted to perennial fruit tree crops.
The survey also indicated that plant population per unit area are high and may
reach 1,600 to 1,800 plants per ha, and are not planted on regular lines or
spacings. Most orchards, located in the upper part of the valley near the
water springs benefit from 3 to 4 irrigations per season. They are usually
cropped to apples and some pears and produce high quality fruit readily sold
at relatively high prices. Those that are further down, in the middle part of
the valley get a little less water and are devoted to pears and peaches. The
quality of the produce in this area is not up to standards, mainly because of
inadequate cultural practices (poor pruning and fertilization, untimely
treatments and irrigations, poor on-farm water management), as is the case for
the other areas in the scheme. Production reaches the market at the peak of
the season and is therefore sold at low prices. At the lowest part of the
valley, the availability of irrigation water becomes problematic. Fruit trees
grown in this part of the valley are mainly composed of prunes and apricots.
Because of favorable winter temperatures and exposition to the south, the
prunes and apricots are produced early in the season and therefore benefit
from good markets and high prices despite their doubtful quality.
5.2         Present cropping pattern is not expected to change even after the
rehabilitation of the water conveyance systems. Waterlogging in some terraces
is expected to decrease with the improvement in irrigation practices. As
Lebanon regains lost export markets, it is likely that farmers will change
tree species in response to market demand.
B. Yields and Production
5.3         Yield of fruit trees are expected to increase as a result of more
reliable irrigation water, better irrigation techniques and improved crop
husbandry practices. Increases are highest for prunes (+30 percent) and
apricots (+18 percent), which are now suffering the most from inadequate water
supply. Yield increases become smaller for the crops grown in higher
altitudes and are closer to the source of water; yields of pears, peaches and
apples increase respectively by 17, 17 and 8 percent each.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
C. Incomes
5.4         Farm income. were estimated by the feasibility study and further
reviewed during the appraisal mission. They vary considerably with farm size
and levels of production techniques. Present estimated incomes vary from LL
3,039,750 ($1,799) to LL 15,561,800 ($9,208) and LL 29,300,000 ($17,337)
respectively for small, medium and large farms. On the basis of crop models
designed to approximate the real costs of production and crop returns, farm
models were prepared for the sub-project area in order to estimate the farm-
level benefits that would accrue as a result of the project (Annex 11, Table
2). With the implementation of the proposed project farm incomes are expected
to increase by 24,14 and 8 percent respectively for small, medium and large
farms.



LEBA8840H
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 4. Dmniye Schemse
Detailed C..t.
(US$ '000)
B... Cost                                           Tot.ls Including Contingencies
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999      2000    Totel   1995        1996     1997     1998      1999     2000      Total
I. I"v.-t_nt Costs
A. Civil Workm
1. Sikr El Bled (MC)                                   98.3      98.3         -        -         -             196.6    108.6    111.0          -        -        -         -   219.7
2. Sikr Btraise
Main Canal                                         267.4   281.1          -         -        -         -   518.5   295.6   317.6            -        -         -        -   613.2
Secondary Canals                                       -   106.8    114.0           -        -         -   220.8         -   120.7   131.6           -         -        -   252.3
Subtotal Sikr Bt.-i..                                 267.4   388.0   114.0             -        -             769.3   295.6   438.3   131.6             -        -         -   865.5
3. Sik. KL Iil
Mein Canal                                              -   200.7   240.8           -        -         -    41.5          -   226.7   278.1          -         -        -   504.8
Secondary Cenels                                       -    55.4       64.2         -         -        -   119.6         -    62.5    74.1           -         _        -   136.7
subtotal Sikr El  il                                      -   256.0    305.0           -                 -   561.0          -   289.3   352.2           -        -         -   641.5
4. Sikr EL ireisee
Main Canal                                              -   192.7   198.6           -         -        _   391.3          -   217.7   229.3           -        -        -   447.0
Secondary Canals                                       -     10.7      12.9         -         -        -    23.6          -    12.1    14.9          -         -        -    27.0
Ma.be Secondery Canal                                   -    67.4      77.9         -         -        -   145.3          -    76.2      89.9        _         _        _   166.1
Subtotal Sikr El Blrics.                                   -   270.9   289.3            -        -        -   560.2          -   306.0   334.1           -        -         -   640.1
5. Kf or Mabou
Mein Canal                                         193.2   236.5          -         -         -        -   429.7   213.6   267.2            -        -         -        -   480.8
S.condary Canal                                        -    43.8       51.5         -        -         -    95.4         -    49.5    59.5           -         -        -   109.1
Sikr  trah E.sr.ij and Kfar Choellan   (MC)    95.7          86.2         -         -        -         -   181.9   105.8    97.3            -        -         -        -   203.2
Mr.h Exsr.y - Kfar Chellane (SC)                        -    43.7      52.7         -        _         -    96.4          -    49.3    60.8          -         -        -   110.2
Subtot.)  lfe.r Hle                                   288.9   410.1   104.2             -        -          -  803.3   319.4    463.4   120.4            _        _         _   903.2
6. Suk El Outti-
Main Canal                                         138.7   164.2           -        -         -        -   302.8    153.3   185.5           -         -        -        -   338.6
Secondary Canals                                       -   116.3    114.8           _          _       -   231.0          -   131.3    132.6         -         -    _        263.9
Subtot i Sik El Outtie                                138.7   280.4    114.8            -        -        -   533.9   153.3   316.8   132.6              -        -         -   602.7
7. Sik Ein Chq.iq
Main C.nl                                              -    26.0      32.0         -         _        _    58.0          -    29.3    37.0           -        _        _    66.3
Secondary Canals                                       -      5.0       5.8         -        -         -    10.8          -      5.6      6.7        -    _             -     12.4
subtotal Sik Ein Chqaiq                                    -    31.0      37.9          -        -         -    68.8         -    35.0    43.7           -         -        -    78.7
8. Heedworks                                               -    73.7      73.7          -        -        -   147.5          -    83.3    85.1           -                  -   168.5
9. Service Roads                                           -    98.3      98.3         -         -        -   196.6          -   113.1   115.6           -         -        -   228.8
10. Miscell.neous - urgent cain canal work                 -   239.5   239.5            -        -        -   479.0          -   275.6   281.7                -             -   557.3
11. Buraisa Sprinq Works                                   -        -   147.5               -                  147.5         -        -   170.3          -        -         --  170.3
Subtotal  Civil Works                                     793.2 2.146.2 1,524.2            -         -        _ 4.463.7    876.9 2,432.0 1,767.3             -        -         - 5076.2
B. Building.
1. Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings                 36.9        -         -        -         -        -    36.9      39.6         -         -        -        -         -    39.6
2. Mew Offices                                             -   169.6          -         -    _            -   169.6          -   186.3          -        -         -        -   186.3
Subtotal Duildin.g                                         36.9    169.6                   -         -        -   206.5      39.6    186.3         -         -        -         -   225.9
C. Studies. Designs. and supervision of works              50.0   100.0   100.0            -         -        -   250.0      56.3   115.1   117.6 *                                 2  -    289.0
Sotal                                                           880.1 2.815.8 1,624.2            -         -        - 4.920.1   972.9 2.733.3 1,884.9              -        -         - 5,591.1
Sun Jun 05 14:55:13  1994
(D
(0
0(0n
-  tTe
*-1 Dmniya S.haje



-59 -                              Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE AKKAR EL BARED IRRIGATION SCHEME
I. THE SUBPROJECT AREA
1.1       Location. Climate and Soils   The irrigation scheme of Akkar El
Bared is located in the Akkar plain in the Mohafazat of North Lebanon, Caza of
Akkar. The scheme proposed for rehabilitation under the IRMP, is divided into
two schemes referred to as EL Bared and Aarka. After the rehabilitation
works, both of the schemes would utilize the El Bared river as their source of
irrigation water. The area under the project extends from the Mediterranean
sea to the east to elevation 75 m in the west. The closest town is Minieh,
located south of the irrigation scheme. Annual precipitation is concentrated
during the winter and early spring months (from October to April) and is
around 780 mm. Soils of the project area, north of the Tripoli/Halba road are
alluvial and heavy in texture. Those that are south of this same road are red
type soils covering a calcarious substratum. Temperatures are moderated by
the proximity of the sea. Minimum monthly temperature in January is usually
at about 8.7 degrees and the maximum is in the month of August when the
temperature reaches about 31 degrees. There are no incidence of frost below
the 50 m altitude where most of the project area is located.
1.2       Population. Target Group and Land Tenure   The total population of
the project area of 800 ha is estimated at about 2,600 persons. Sample
surveys indicate that families are composed of 11 members, giving therefore a
total of 236 households. Those that will benefit the most from the
rehabilitation works are about 173 families (1,903 people), farming a total
area of approximately 377 ha located in the Aarka area.  Farm labor is
provided by families in the small and medium farms and hired in the larger
holdings.  Women labor is hired but little family labor is provided by women.
The feasibility study indicates that 64 percent of the farms have a total area
of 1 ha or less, 14 percent have between 2 and 4 ha and 22 percent have an
area of more than 4 ha. The feasibility study also indicates that about 45 ha
used by the military will be returned to agricultural production as soon as
their conveyance system is rehabilitated. Generally, citrus and other fruit
tree orchards are directly managed by their owners, whereas, 72 percent of
annual crops are grown by share croppers.
1.3       Present Cronvina Pattern and Yields.  Agricultural production is
not as intensive as it could be, mainly because of the difficulties farmers in
the Aarka area have in getting irrigation water for their summer crops. This
has been the case for the last 15 to 20 years when, because of losses in the
conveyance system, the water available from the El Bared river no longer
sufficed for the irrigation of both the El Bared and Aarka schemes. After
being cut off from the El Bared waters, Aarka farmers formed an association
and diverted their water needs directly from the Aarka river at very high
costs (200,000 LL/ ha/ crop). This did not encourage agricultural



- 60 -                             Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
intensification, as most farmers preferred to grow either winter rainfed crops
or spring irrigated crops rather than double crop.
1.4       Crop yields in this area are generally higher(20 to 30 percent)
than the national average yields. Major crops include wheat, lettuce and
carrots, grown under rainfed conditions in the winter in addition to okra,
melons and potatoes; the later are either grown in the spring for early
production "Semi primeur" or during the fall and early winter for late season
production "Arriere saison". In addition to the above annual crops a variety
of citrus fruits are grown, they include oranges, lemons and mandarins.
Larger farms grow more citrus fruit than small farms. Cropping patterns vary
with farm size and proximity to the source of water. As indicated above,
larger farms tend to grow more citrus and less annuals than small holdings.
Small farmers, particularly those near the Aarka river, grow more winter and
summer vegetable crops and have an intensive, labor demanding farming
operation.
1.5       Irrigation System. The Akkar Bared has a current irrigated area of
800 ha. Irrigation water is diverted from the Nahr El Bared River by two
diversion structures with about 16 mcm being diverted annually. Water use
(20,000 m3 per ha) is considered excessive due to large conveyance losses in
the old lined main canal and earthen secondary canals.
II. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND POTENTIAL
2.1       Farmers in Aarka are well aware of the limitations in irrigation
water availability and they have learned not to grow more than they can
irrigate. Their present yields are therefore adequate but they can only grow
one crop a year. After the rehabilitation of the scheme farmers will be able
to benefit from a larger share of water and a more reliable water source. Its
cost will also be lower than their present water because they will no longer
have to pay for the very right-of-passage fees. This will allow farmers to
stabilize their yields at their relatively high levels, but would also allow
them to intensify by growing more than one crop a year.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1       The main objectives of the project are to increase
agriculture-based income in both the Bared and Aarka areas and achieve a
sustainable and improved management of water resources, through (i) the
rehabilitation of surface irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of
basic public support services.
B. Proiect Description
3.2       The project consists of two major components: (a) rehabilitation
and modernization of irrigation infrastructure; and (b) provision of support
to institutions dealing with irrigated agriculture (see annex 6).



- 61 -                            Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
C. Detailed Features
3.3       To rehabilitate and modernize the Akkar irrigation scheme, the
project would finance: (i) rehabilitation of the existing main canal (11.1 km)
feeding 1,600 ha of total irrigated area; (ii) rehabilitation of El Abde canal
(5.8 km); (iii) reconstruction of concrete secondary canals to replace
existing deteriorated concrete channels (11.2 km) and earth channels (22.8 km)
and repairs to existing secondary concrete canals (5.7 km), feeding 800 ha;
and (iv) provision of water control equipment.
D. Proiect Cost
3.4       The total base cost for rehabilitating the irrigation
infrastructure at Akkar El Bared would amount to U.S.$1.83 million. Breakdown
of costs per sub-category are detailed in Appendix 1.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1       Implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Works would be the
responsibility of the existing Water Sector Implementation Unit (WSIU). WSUI
is under the authority of MHER's Director General for Investments and is
assisted by a team of international consultants (WSIUC) financed for a period
of three years by the European Community (EC). Rehabilitation works would be
contracted out to private contractors. The WSIU would have full
responsibility and accountability for the technical aspects of the
rehabilitation works to be financed by the project. Procurment and
disbursement would be handled by CRD' Program Management Unit (PMU).
4.2       Operation and Maintenance of main headwork, main and secondary
canals, would be initially under the responsibility of existing Water
Committee and would be automatically transferred to the new North Lebanon
Regional Water Irrigation Authority as soon as it is established. Water users
associations organized around the selection and hiring of ditch riders
(Shawi), would be responsible for O&M of tertiary canals. The composition of
the Water Committee's board, currently designated by the Minister of Hydraulic
and Electrical resources, will be revised to include representatives of
farmers.
4.3       Water Users' Involvement.  Although farmers in Aarka are currently
involved in the operation and maintenance of the diversion and canal they
created, they are not involved in the management of the original scheme
connected to El Bared river. To increase the role and responsibilities of
farmers in the management of downstream irrigation systems, measures need to
be taken to allow for their involvement in the management of schemes through
the support and empowerment of existing WUAs grouping farmers at the outlet or
village level.
4.4       The rehabilitation sequence would include, as a necessary step,
beneficiaries' review and approval of rehabilitation proposals; this dialogue
will be initiated by a social study conducted that MOHER intends to conduct in
July 1994. To improve the dialogue between the different areas of the scheme,
a Scheme Water Management Committee (SWMC) would be created. The SWMC would



- 62 -                             Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
comprise representatives from the Water Authority and representatives
designated by the WUAs. The SWMC would make decisions based on discussions in
which users' representatives would voice their demands; and users would
receive guidance on management of the secondary and tertiary networks.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FAR! INCOME
A. Expected Changes in Cropping Patterns
5.1       This irrigation scheme is also called "Aarka", because it presently
gets its irrigation water from the Aarka river through a canal built and
maintained by farmers in the area. The total currently irrigated project area
is about 344 ha of which 142 ha are occupied by citrus. The remaining 199 ha
are cropped to wheat (35 ha), rainfed lettuce (52 ha) in the winter and okra
(33 ha) and potatoes (79 ha) in the summer. In the future, when the cheaper
and more dependable irrigation water from the Bared river reaches the project
area, it is anticipated that farmers will increase their cropping intensity
from the current 104 percent to about 150 percent. This increase in cropping
intensity would be due to increases in summer crops, mainly cucurbits and
summer vegetables. The evolution of cropping patterns and intensities are
indicated in Annex 11, Table 1.
5.2       In addition to the changes in cropping patters and intensity, the
project area will also increase in size. About 42 ha of land, with about 18
ha of citrus, are now being evacuated by the military. Their irrigation
system will be rehabilitated and will receive water from the Bared diversion.
As a result the total cultivated area under irrigation for the Aarka section
of the scheme will increase from 334 to 376 ha.
B. Yields and Production
5.3        Because farmers in Aarka area are presently adopting the strategy
of cultivating crops only when there is a quasi guarantee that sufficient
water is available to grow them, no yield increases are anticipated for most
crops in the future. The only exception being citrus fruit which does suffer
from lack of sufficient irrigation water. For citrus fruit, yields are
expected to increase by about 20 percent, from 15 tons per ha to 18 tons per
ha.
C. Incomes
5.4       Farm incomes were estimated by the feasibility study and further
reviewed during the appraisal mission. They vary considerably with farm size
and levels of production techniques. At present, farm incomes range from LL
3,369,026 ($1,994) for small farms, LL 10,113,596 ($5,984) for medium and LL
16,752,180 ($9,913) for large farms. On the basis of crop models designed to
approximate the real costs of production and crop returns, farm models were
prepared for the sub-project area in order to estimate the farm-level benefits
that would accrue as a result of the project Annex 11, Table 2). An analysis
of these farm models indicates that future increases in farm incomes are
expected to be more significant than in Danniye; they will increase by 52 and
54 percent respectively for small farms and for medium and large farms.



Irrigation Rehabilitation and Mdernization Project
Table 3. Akker Barid Schema
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
BSae Cost                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total   1995    1996    1997    1990    1999    2000    Total
1.  Mwtmet Coeto
A. Lvil Works
1. Rehabilitation of Main Canal                      -   325.0   396.5         -        -       -   721.5         -   367.2   457.6         -        -       -   825.0
2. Rehabilitation of 51 Abdo Canal                   -    76.3    71.2         -        -       -   147.5         -    86.2    82.2         -        -       -   166.4
3. Seoondary Canals
Concr-te Channels for Replacemnt                  -   103.3   126.1         -       -        -   231.5         -   116.7   148.0         -       -        -   264.7
Concrete Channels to Replace Earth                -   226.8   290.3         -       -        -   517.1         -   256.3   335.2         -       -        -   591.5
Repairs of existing concrete channels             -    33.7    37.9         -       -        -    71.6        -    38.1    43.8          -       -        -    81.8
Water Control Equipant                            -    16.0    19.4         -        -       -    35.4         -    18.1    22.4         -        -       -    40.5
ibtotel  eoondry  Ca--l                           _      379.9   475.8         --      -        -   655.6         -   429.2   549.4         -        -       -   978.6
"ubtotal Civil bake                                     -   781.1   943.5         -        -       - 1,724.6         -   882.6 1,089.4         -        -       - 1,972.0
S. OuLldings
1. Rehabilitation of Existing Offices                -    19.7        -        _       _        _    19.7         _    21.6        -        -       -        -    21.6
C. Studies, Designs, and supervision of works    18.0    36.0    36.0             -        -       -    90.0    18.4    37.7    38.5           -        _        -    94.6
Total                                                      18.0   836.8   979.5         -       -        - 1,834.2    18.4   941.8 1,127.9           -       -        - 2,088.1
Sun Jun 05 14:55:07 1994
OQ
0 (
3-1 Akk.r Barid Scheme



-64 -                              Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE SOUTH BEKAA IRRIGATION SCHEME
I. THE SUBPROJECT AREA
1.1         Location. Climate and Soils.  The South Bekaa project area extends
over a gross area of approximately 2,000 ha.   It is located on the western
flank of the Anti Liban mountain, on the left bank of the Litani river, just
upstream of the Karaoun dam. It is part of the first tranche (Left Bank
Sector: 8,600 ha) of a much larger scheme, which when completed would cover
nearly 20,000 ha of net irrigated area. The South Bekaa project area is
divided into three zones: Karaoun 1 (250 ha), Karaoun 2 (450 ha) and Joub
Janine (1,300 ha). Climatic information gathered in the project area show
that total average rainfall varies between 1,000 mm per year in Khirbet
Kanafar and 700 mm per year in Joub Janine. It falls within a relatively
short period between November and April, making the growth of summer crops
impossible without irrigation. Temperatures are moderate and do not fall
below 5.8 degrees in January and remain below 25 degrees during the month of
july. Crop water requirements (gross) have been estimated to vary between
6,300 m3 and 9,100 m3 per growing season respectively for sprinkler and
gravity irrigations. Soils are variable from clay loams to sandy loams over
calcarious or gravely substratum. From the cultivable 2,000 ha project area,
only about 1,620 ha are suited for irrigation. The remainder is too rocky or
too shallow to sustain intensive irrigated agricultural production.
1.2         Population, Target Group and Land Tenure. The total present
population of the 2,000 ha project area has been estimated at about 26,000
people, of whom only about 9,700 are residents of the project area. The
remainder have migrated to foreign countries (more than 52 percent) or to
urban centers in Lebanon (about 10 percent). The number of land holdings is
extremely high, particularly in the Karaoun zones where the 700 ha total area
represents approximately 4,500 holdings of an average size of about 0.15 ha.
In Joub Janine, the total land area of 1,300 ha represents approximately 2,390
land holdings of about 0.5 ha. The total number of holdings that will receive
irrigation water as a result of the project are owned by at least 6,890
families, corresponding to about 41,340 people. Most of these fragmented
holdings are now consolidated under rental or share cropping arrangements to
allow for their exploitation; farm sizes therefore vary from 3 to 30 ha. Very
few are being farmed by relatives of the owners and still fewer are being
farmed directly by their owners. It is expected that in addition to present
land usufructuary arrangements, direct farming by owners as well as some land
consolidations (through sales) would occur in the future, once the irrigation
system has been rehabilitated and completed.
1.3         Present Cronpina Pattern and Yields.  Except for a few hectares
being irrigated from the Karaoun lake and from a private deepwell, most of the
land in the Karaoun 1 and 2 zones are only marginally cultivated to wheat;
most of the time they are left in fallow and are grazed by livestock. In the



- 65 -                            Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
Joub Janine zone, the land is cultivated to wheat, potatoes, and summer
vegetables including cucurbits and tomatoes. Three crops are planted every
two years, giving a global cropping intensity of about 150 per cent. Many
farmers irrigate with advanced irrigation techniques, such as sprinkler and
localized types of irrigation and use adequate levels of fertilizers and other
inputs. Crop yields (Annexll, Table 1) are therefore relatively high. It is
anticipated that the rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure would
improve the cropping intensity more than the yields, the later would improve
only modestly.
1.4         Irriaation System. The South Bekaa scheme was designed in the
1970s to use water from the Karaoum reservoir and from wells and springs in
the region. The main pumping station at the foot of the dam was destroyed in
1982 shortly after its completion. Since then, the main canal (13 km) has been
used to store the groundwater pumped by private pumps. The subproject
includes for the rehabilitation of part of the left bank Litani Command in the
Karaoun, Joub Janine areas forming 2,000 ha of the total 8,600 ha of this
command for which about 10 mcm per annum will be supplied as part of the 44
mcm for the total left bank command and additional 4 mcm will be provided by
groundwater.
II. DEVELOPMENT CONSTRAINTS AND POTENTIAL
2.1         The rehabilitation works proposed under the project would lift
several constrains. The first would be to make irrigation water available to
area that could not previously be irrigated. The second would be that land
owners would have more incentive to invest and farm their land than in the
past. Future new farmers that would take up irrigated farming would most
likely be those that are relatively poor, and could not, in the past, have
access to irrigation water to cultivate their land. Once a source of
irrigation water is secured, the area would be farmed at a much higher
intensity than at present allowing for incomes to increase substantially.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1         The main objectives of the project are to increase
agricultural-based income in the subproject area and improve the management of
groundwater resources, through (i) the rehabilitation of surface irrigation
infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of basic public support services.
B. Prolect Description
3.2         The project consists of two major components: (a) rehabilitation
and modernization of irrigation infrastructure; and (b, see annex 6) the
provision of support to institutions involved in (i) irrigation and water
management; (ii) agricultural support services; and (iii) project
implementation and coordination.
C. Detailed Features
3.3         For the rehabilitation and modernization of the South Bekaa
scheme, the project would intervene on only 2,000 ha, first phase development



- 66 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
of 8,600 ha on left bank of the Litani river, and would include:(i)
rehabilitation of main pump station, water delivery pipeline and main canal
with its structures and water control system to eventually serve 8,600 ha of
irrigated area; (ii) rehabilitation of pump stations reservoirs and piped
distribution network for irrigation water in Karaoun I and II areas (700 ha);
(iii) extension of main canal (4.4 km); (iv) construction of new Joub Janine
pumping station, reservoir and irrigation water piped distribution system to
irrigate 1,300 ha; (v) provision and installation of equipment for main
pumping station, water control equipment, irrigation pumping station,
tubewells and irrigation hydrants; and (vi) rehabilitation or construction of
800 m2 of existing office and service buildings and 500 m2 of workshops.
D. Proiect Cost
3.4         The total base cost for rehabilitating the irrigation
infrastructure at South Bekaa would amount to U.S.$12.25 million. Breakdown
of costs per sub-category are detailed in Appendix 1.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1         Implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Works would be the
responsibility of the existing Water Sector Implementation Unit (WSIU), which
will work in close collaboration with the Litani River Authority. The WSUI is
under the authority of MHER's Director General for Investments and is assisted
by a team of international consultants (WSIUC) financed for a period of three
years by the European Community (EC). Rehabilitation works would be
contracted out to private contractors. The WSIU would have full
responsibility and accountability for the technical aspects of the
rehabilitation works to be financed by the project. Procurement and
disbursement would be handled by CDR's Program Management Unit (PMU).
4.2         Operation and Maintenance of pumping stations, main canal,
secondary system, and hydrants would be remain under the responsibility of the
Litani River Authority (LRA). A Scheme Water Management Committee would be
established by the LRA. Its board would include representatives of farmers.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM INCOME
A. Expected Changes in Cropping Patterns
5.1         According to the feasibility study, only about 920 ha of a total
cultivable area of 1,622 ha are being cropped at present. The area in fallow
is located mostly in the Karaoun 1 and 2 areas, where soils are relatively
shallow and rocky. This lack of cultivation is due to several factors, but
mainly to the unavailability of irrigation water to cultivate high return
summer crops, the non profitability of winter rainfed crops and the degree of
absentee owners who have migrated out of the area. The presently cropped areas
are cultivated to wheat (331 ha), potatoes (387 ha), summer vegetables (156
ha) and water melon (46 ha). Fallow occupies about 700 ha; giving an overall
cropping intensity of about 57 percent.
5.2         Once the irrigation system is completed and water becomes
available, it is anticipated that cropping will cover the whole area and that
over a period of 7 to 10 years, depending on the type of farms, cropping



- 67 -                             Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
intensity would increase to about 115 percent. In addition to the traditional
crops mentioned above, it is likely that some farmers would take up such crops
as winter broad beans sold green in pods (Annex 11, Table 1).
B. Yields and Production
5.3         Yield improvements would vary from a maximum of 23 percent for
summer vegetables to a minimum of 13 percent for potatoes.  Yields of wheat
and water melon are expected to increase respectively by 18 and 20 percent,
from 4.5 to 5.3 tons per ha and from 30 to 36 tons per ha.  Yields of major
crops for the five sub-project areas are indicated in Annex 11, Table 1.
C. Incomes
5.4         arm incomes were estimated by the feasibility study and further
reviewed during the appraisal mission. They vary considerably with farm size
and levels of production techniques. At present, farm incomes vary from LL
8,056,539 ($4,767) for small farms (average 3.7 ha) to LL 33,532,620 ($19,842)
and LL 70,549,149 ($41,745) for medium (average 15.4 ha)and large farms
(average 32.4 ha) respectively. In South Bekaa, even though land holdings are
small and the population is relatively poor, most farmers do not cultivate
single holdings, but group a number of holdings into large farms
'exploitation". Crop and farm models were prepared for the sub-project area
in order to estimate the farm-level benefits that would accrue as a result of
the project. An analysis of these farm models (Annex 11, Table 2) indicates
that in the future and because of the elimination of fallow on large area (700
ha) of the project, farm income is expected to increase significantly by about
200 percent for all types of farms. It is also anticipated that some of the
migrating population will return to the area and with the money earned abroad,
they would consolidate and increase the size of their holdings through
purchases from family member and neighbors. Farm size (exploitation) and
number of holdings may therefore decrease, because more land holders would
want to farm their land directly rather than renting it to large operators.
Farm numbers on the other hand are likely to increase as a result of returning
emigrants, who take up cultivating again on consolidated owned farms irrigated
with water supplied by the project scheme.



LEB.ANON*
Irrigation Rehabilitation end Modernization Project
Table, 6. South Bekaa Schjeme
Det&iled Coete
Base Cost                                                      Totals  Including Conti.g.ncies
1995       1996      1997       1998       1 999      2000     Total       1995       1996       1 99 7     1998      1999       2000     Total
I. Io.e-Ott Co.tm
A. Civil Work.
Rehab. of principel Pum~p Station                                 4.8       12.1        7.2          -    -               -       24.1        5.3       13.6       8.4           -          -.        -      27.3
Rehab. of Canal 900                                              27.7      110.8       56.8               -                -     195.3       30.6     125.2       65.6           -          -         -    221.4
Rehab. of cross regulators on M.C.                                2.7        2.7          -          - -                  -        5.4        3.0        3.0- -                                       -        6.0
Rehab. of 4Tubewalls                                              3.6        3.6          -          -          -         -        7.2        4.0        4.0          -          -                    -        8.0
Rehab. of Pum~p Station/Reservoir Kl                              3.2        8.0        4.8          -          -         -       16.1        3.6        9.1       5.6           ---                         18.2
Rehab. of Pump Station/Reservoir K2                               4.8       12.1        7.2          -          -          -      24.1        5.3       13.6       8.4           ---                         27.3
Rehab. of Distribution Network Kl,1(2                            62.5      112.6       92.5          --    267.6                             69.1     1 27 .2    106.9           ---                        3 03 .2
Extension to Canal 900                                         731.3   1,462.6  1,023.8              -          -         -  3,217.7    8008.5  1,652.5  1,182.2--                                    -  3,643.1
Naev Pump St.tion.s/Re.srvoir 3.3.                              3 03 .9    759.7     455.8                      -          -  1.519.5      336.0      058.4      526.4                      -             1,720.7
Ne- Distribution N8etwork,J.J.                                  382.2      955.5     573.3           -                           9_   0    4_2 2. 5   1,7.       662.0          2- _.                 - 
Subtot.1. Civl VorkA                                            1F,5 2 6.7 -3,83-9.6  2,~221.6           -         -          -7,187.9   1,667.9  3, 8 86 .2  2,565.3               ---  8,109.4
S. Xquipmen.t
Electrification Principal Pump St. (66kv)                           -       67.3      67.3           -          -               134.6           -      70.4       71.9                      -               1  42.3
El.crical Equipment for Principal P.S.                              -      082.6     828.6           -                    -  1,657.3            -     866.9      866.0--                              -  1,752.8
Hydromechanical Equipment for P.P.S.                            158.7      39 6 .8   238.1           -          -          -    793.6      162.5      415.1      254.6                      -         -    632 .2
Rising Main for Principal P.S.                                   11.3       45.1          -          -    -                       56.4       11.5      47.2                      - -                  -      58.7
Regulator Dates for Main Canal                                   25.5      101.8          -          -          - -             127.3       26.1      106.5                      -- -                       132.6
Electrical supply by EDL to K(1 and K2                            7.3       29.1          -                     - -               36.4        7.4      30. 4-- -                                             3 7 .9
Electrical and Hydraimech Equip,  for Kl.1K2                     26.7       66.6      40.1           -          -         -     133.6       27.4       69.9       42.9--                                    140.1
Irrigation Hydrants for KI and K(2 area                          34.0     136.1                      -          - -             170.1       34.6      14 2 .4                   -- -                        177.2
Regulation Gates for new section                                    -      147.3          -          -          - -             147.3           -     154.1-- -                                             154.1 
Electric Supply from EDL for 4 Tubewells                             -      18.2          -          -          - -               18.2          -      19.0-- -                                              19.0
Suba.rsible pum~p equip. for tubevells                           32.7      130.9          -          -          - -              163.6       33.5     137.0                      -- -                       170.5                0'1
Electric Supply from  EDL for 3.3. Pump St.                       9.1       36.4          -- -                                    45.5        9 .3     38.0                      -- -                        47.3                C
Electric and Hydro-Mech. Equip. for 3.3. Pump St.                98.2      392.7          -          -          . -             4 90. 9    100.5      410.9                      -- -                       511.4
Irrigation Hydrants for 3.J. area                                36.7      146.68                           -                    183.6       37.6     153.6                      -    -                     191.2
Subtotal Eq-ipmat                                                  440.2  2,543.9   1,174.0              -         -          -41568.2         450.6  2,661.4  1,255.3              --- 4, 367. 3
C. Bu~ildisge
Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings                             13.3       13.3          -          -          -          -      26.5       14.3       14.6          -          ---                         26. 8
New Buildings                                                    17.7       35.4       35.4          -          -          -      88.5       19.0       38.9      39.7           --                          97.6
Workshops                                                        26.5       53.1       53.1          -          -          -     132.7       28.5       58 .3     59.6           -                    -     146.5
Miscelaneo.us                                                        -      80.8      121.2          -          -          -     202.0          -       93 .0    142.5           -                    -     235.5
Subtot.l Duildinge                                                   57.5     182.6      209.7           -                    -     449.8       61.6      204.8      241.9           --                         508.5
D. Studies, Designs, and suparvi.ion of works                       136.4     181.8      136.4           -          -         -     454.6      1 53 .5    209.,2   - 160.4---    5 23. 2
Total,                                                                 2F,16 0.8 6,-347. 9  3, -7 41.7         -          --12,250.5  2F,3 53.8  6,9-61.6  4,228-                                                    3, 53-8 .2
Sun Jun 05 14:55:22 1994
(lD
5-1 South Bake. Schemee



Annex 6
- 69 -                          Page 1 of 23
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. The Irrigation Subsector
1.1         Water Resources.  The country-wide water balance shows that out of a
net potentially available surface flow of 3,375 mcm (of which 2,557 mcm is wet
season and 818 mcm is dry season flow), only 1,800 mcm is readily available for
use in addition to the 400 mcm of exploitable groundwater. The present total
irrigated area of about 87,000 ha currently has an annual water consumption of
about 670 mcm of which about 250 mcm is from groundwater. Future annual water
requirements (year 2015), for domestic, industrial and agricultural uses have
been estimated by the Ministry of Hydraulic and Electric Resources (MOHER) at
900, 240 and 1,415 mcm, respectively. Hence, by that year, the deficit in the
overall water supply would be of the order of 350 mcm. More than 50 sites have
been recommended in the past for further geological investigations as potential
dam sites, however, only the Karaoun Dam has been implemented with the large
expected leakages from reservoirs found on Karstic rocks being the main reason
for rejecting potential dam sites. Hydrological data collection and processing
has been severely disrupted over the last two decades as a result of the
destruction of many of the weather and gauging stations, the abandonment of
stations in areas of unrest by the staff and the unavailability of funds to
replace or maintain equipment and to pay staff. There is currently a serious
need for a revised integrated national development plan for the management of
water resources. This will require updating the existing studies for each
watershed to assess available surface and groundwater resources and present and
future water needs for municipal/industrial and irrigation needs. Plans will
have to be drawn up for an integrated development program for water use and were
needed institutional reorganization will have to be introduced to ensure
sustainable systems. With the support of the EERP the Government is preparing a
Water Management Strategy and is considering the establishment of a National
Water Council, which would be the highest water resources policy formulating
body which would also supervise the implementation of the development plan
ensuring the enforcement of policy and compliance with norms and regulations.
B. Water Sector Institutions
1.2         The Ministry of Hydraulic and Electrical Resources (MOHER1 is the
main institution involved in irrigation through its General Directorate of
Hydraulic and Electrical Equipment (DGEHE), which has overall responsibility for
water development planning and the development and exploitation of natural water
resources including irrigation through its Irrigation Service. The Litani River
Authority (LRA) is a public corporation, created in 1954 for the multi-purpose
development of the Litani river basin and is governed by a Board of Directors
nominated by the Council of Ministers. The LRA is in charge of irrigation and



- 70 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 23
hydropower production in the Litani river basin and for hydraulic flow
measurements throughout the whole country. Nineteen Reaional Water Authorities
IRWA1 and 209 Reaional Water Committees (RWC), come under the administrative
supervision of the MOHER's General Directorate for Operations, and are
responsible for water supply management for both domestic and irrigation water
supplies, including systems operation and maintenance. Although, RWA and RWC
are autonomous commercial enterprises, the revenues they derive from water sales
are not sufficient to cover O&M expenses with government providing annual
subsidies to cover the deficit which it has decided to discontinue this year.
Unofficial Water User Associations at the village or irrigation module level are
operational in most irrigation schemes. However, in some of the schemes, there
is a need for intermediate institutions (Schemes Associations or Water
Districts) to facilitate dialogue among all the users of the same irrigation
water in order to solve conflicts, collect water charges and organize water
distribution. The Ministry of Agriculture's Green Plan (GP) (para. 12) is
responsible for small hydraulic works and farm-level infrastructure, as well as
soil conservation, land reclamation, development of rural roads, and has
maintained a reasonable number of its technical personnel and operational
capability.
C. Agricultural Institutions
1.3         The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is mandated to set agricultural
policy, plan and support its sustainable development through its central and
regional services and satellite agencies. These include, inter alia, the
Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon (ARIL) and the Green Plan (GP). MOA
has been extremely weakened by the civil war, in fact both its Central and
Regional Offices are operating at low capacity. Only ARIL and the GP maintain
some operational capacity at the moment. Present level of staffing is very low,
as only about 15 percent of the allowed positions are filled (310 over 2,200).
The Agricultural Research Institute of Lebanon (ARIL) is an autonomous body,
with a central research station at Tell Amara, in the Bekaa Valley and six
specialized regional stations, including Fanar(Beirut), Kfar Dan (Baalbek), and
Sour (South Lebanon). Before the hostilities began, ARIL conducted valuable
applied research for practical needs and problems of agriculture in the country.
However, most of the ARIL's stations were heavily damaged and put out of
operation. Notwithstanding the hostilities, private and international research
institutions have remained operational: the Agricultural Research and Education
Center (AREC) of the American University of Beirut (AUB), at Haouch Sneid, the
Experimental Research Center of the School of Agriculture of the Saint Joseph
University and the research stations of the International Center for
Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) at Terbol and Kfardan. Tha
Green Plan (GP) is an autonomous agency of the MOA responsible for land
preservation, land reclamation, road construction, small hydraulic developments
and on farm level infrastructure works. It has maintained a valuable part of its
personnel and operation capacity in five regional branches and has about 300
agents, of which 50 are engineers.
1.4         Agricultural Suovort Services.  Although theoretically represented
in six major regions covering the whole of Lebanon, MOA's extension services are
practically non operational and most of the technological improvements are
selectively introduced and spread through the private sector, mainly through
input suppliers and a few of the existing agricultural produce storage and
marketing cooperatives. The remaining extension staff, although experienced,



- 71 -                                Annex 6
Page 3 of 23
has been inactive during the war and has lost touch with field realities.
Salaries are extremely low and are not competitive with the private sector. New
staff would have to be recruited ,trained, placed in direct permanent contact
with farmers and provided with the necessary incentives. Input supply is in the
hands of very active traders in fertilizers, pesticides and seeds; they also
provide a form of credit to farmers, to be recovered after harvest, through
higher prices charged for the inputs sold. Input supply companies are also the
only available source of technical assistance to the farmers, but such
assistance is limited to the marketing of their own products. The quality of
inputs is often reported by farmers to be below standards and to not correspond
to the label they carry; this is particularly true for fertilizers and
pesticides. There is no source of institutionalized credit for farmers in any
of the project areas, although NGOs, such as the Save the Children Federation,
are developing rural credit schemes targeted to the rural poor. Within the
present banking system in Lebanon, small and medium sized farmers have
practically no access to formal credit. Farmers may receive credit assistance
from local money lenders and commercial firms (input suppliers and/or
wholesalers) for periods which do not exceed 12 months. Credit from input
suppliers is usually denominated in USD equivalent at competitive interest
rates. However, the interest charged by local traders and wholesalers on
informal credit in local currency is frequently very high (above 100 percent per
year equivalent). A common complaint on the part of farmers is the sale of
vegetables at low prices from neighboring countries, and for delays in payment
on the part of some exporters.
D. The Role of the Private Sector in Agriculture
1.5         In sharp contrast to the public institutions, the private sector
remained remarkably active throughout the nearly two decades of civil strife and
has filled many of the voids created by the absence of the public sector.
However, private supply of agricultural services remains limited to advice on
the use of chemical inputs by firms making those products and to geographically
limited research results obtained by research stations. Essential services such
as phytosanitary regulation, technical support, and quality control of
agricultural export produce are still weak. At the grass root level, water
users groups exist in almost all schemes and villages, in the large schemes,
their participation in the operation and the management of the irrigation is
generally limited to the most downstream segments of irrigation systems. There
are also farmers cooperatives and chambers of commerce. The cooperatives are
generally organized according to specific agricultural commodities (citrus or
fruit cooperatives); they supply their members with some farm inputs, provide
cold storage facilities and marketing assistance. Chambers of commerce are
organized on a regional basis, they provide their members with marketing
information and certificates of origin for their agricultural export products.
The Saida chamber of commerce, one of the most active in Lebanon, is working
with other chambers to get the GOL to approve and act on their proposals to set
and enforce quality standards on agricultural commodities marked for export.



- 72-                                 Annex 6
Page 4 of 23
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.1         The main objectives of the project are to increase agriculture-based
income and employment in the project areas and achieve a sustainable and
improved management of water resources, through (i) the rehabilitation of
surface irrigation infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of basic public
support services.
B. Prolect DescriRtion
2.2         The project consists of two major components: (a) the rehabilitation
and modernization of irrigation infrastructure, which has been described in
annexes 1 through 5; and (b) the provision of support to institutions involved
in (i) irrigation and water management; (ii) agricultural support services; and
(iii) project implementation and coordination.
2.3         Under institutional strengthening, support would be provided to
MOHER, MOA, the Agronomic Institute of Lebanon (ARIL), the Litani River
Authority (LRA) and the Green Plan (GP) to enhance their capacities, rebuild
their technical expertise and enable them to resume their active role in
providing the necessary technical support to insure the attainment of project
benefits. This would also enable these organizations to implement the project
efficiently. The support would include additional contractual staff, office
equipment, vehicles and training. Consultancy services and technical assistance
would be provided for preparation of feasibility studies, preparation of designs
and bidding documents and for supervision of works.
C. Detailed Features
2.4         Irrioation and Water Management Institutions. The project would
support selected departments of MOHER, and LRA as well as selected Regional
Water Authorities directly involved in the implementation and the operation of
the subprojects.
(a)   Irriaation Services. The project would support: (i)  MOHER's
Irriaation Deoartment, (US$1.35 million, base cost), to supervise
and control execution of studies and construction work by financing
office equipment, 2 vehicles, rehabilitation of offices, studies and
detail designs, technical assistance 78 sm of civil and irrigation
engineers, training (overseas: 10.5 sm and local: 70 sm),
incremental O&M of vehicles and office equipment; (ii) LRA's
Department of Studies and Prolect US$0.97 million, base cost), to
supervise and control the studies and the construction works for
irrigation schemes in the Litani basin and in South Lebanon, by
providing office equipment, 3 vehicles, rehabilitation of offices,
technical assistance (51 sm of engineers), training for engineers
and technicians (overseas: 10.5 sm and local: 45 sm), incremental
O&M of vehicles, buildings, office equipment; and (iii) MOA'Green
Plan (US$0.77 million, base cost): strengthen present capacity to
implement small schemes through provision of office equipment, 6
vehicles, rehabilitation of offices, studies for detailed designs of
small schemes, technical assistance (24 sm each of an irrigation and



- 73 -                                Annex 6
Page 5 of 23
rural engineer), training of engineers and technicians (10.5 em of
overseas training and 70 Bm of local training); and (iv) RWA, RWC
and Water Users' Associations (US$0.70 million, base cost), would be
involved in the detailed design of the rehabilitation works and will
progressively take over O&M. To facilitate this transition, the
project would finance 12 sm of overseas training, 45 staffweeks of
local training, workshops and in-service training for ditch-riders
(Shawis), and technical assistance (15 sm of expatriates and 204 sm
of local consultants). The project would support the Regional Water
Authorities and Water Users' Association by providing projects
facilities including O&M equipment (US$4.85 million, base cost),
through providing 5 office equipment sets, 25 vehicles, 59
motorcycles, and 8 loader-backhoe, as well as incremental operating
costs.
(b)   Environmental Monitoring. The project would strengthen MOHER and LRA
capacity to monitor the quality of groundwater aquifers, especially
in the coastal areas where the danger of sea water intrusion exists.
It would also support the gathering and interpretation of
hydrogeological data in the project area. The project would
rehabilitate MOHER's Hydroceoloaical Department (US$0.50 million,
base cost), to initiate a groundwater monitoring program in the
project area by providing laboratory and office equipment, one
vehicle, technical assistance (9 sm of local and international
consultants as computer specialist, hydrogeologist and
environmentalist), studies (Yammouneh storage reservoirs),
incremental O&M of vehicles, etc. The project would also support
LRA's Department of Water Resources (Us$0.37 million, base cost) by
providing hydrometric and office equipment, rehabilitation of office
building, 2 vehicles, technical assistance (7 Bm of local computer
specialist and international hydrologist), incremental O&M of
vehicles and equipment.
2.5         Agricultural Services. The project would support the rehabilitation
of essential public services in applied research as well as quality control of
agricultural inputs and pesticide residues in agricultural produce. The project
would also finance an innovative approach to provide farmers in the various
subproject areas with on-farm technology testing and extension services.
(a)   Applied Research (US$1.88 million, base cost).  Under this sub-
component, the project would support on-station applied research.
This research would be conducted by ARIL and would focus, inter
alia, on subjects dealing with verification trials for new cereals,
pulses, vegetables and tree crops varieties and species, irrigation
techniques, plant disease control, integrated pest management and
soil investigations, mapping and classification, etc. To enable
ARIL to undertake the above research, the project would finance the
construction and rehabilitation of laboratories, the procurement of
equipment and vehicles, human resources development, long term
technical assistance, short term consultancies and incremental costs
for the operation and maintenance of laboratories, equipment and
vehicles. Civil works to be financed by the project would include
the construction of a 250 m2 soil and plant protection laboratory at
Sour, 2,000 m2 of green house space at Fanar, the rehabilitation of



- 74-                                 Annex 6
Page 6 of 23
the soils, plant protection and irrigation labs (2,000 m2) at Tell
Amara as well as 1,000 m2 of green houses at Fanar. Equipment would
include computers, laboratory, irrigation and field equipment as
well as vehicles. Human resources development would include training
in-country (42 sm) and abroad (10 sm). Long term technical
assistance (144 sm) would be financed by the project to enable ARIL
to implement its incremental research program. Short term
consultancies would be provided for programming, analysis of
research results and training of local staff (6 sm of expatriate
TA).
(b)   On-farm Technoloav Testina and Extension: (US$1.43 million, base
cost). At present, the Ministry of Agriculture does not have an
operational public extension service and the expectation is, that
its reactivation would take at least a few years. In order to
insure that expected project benefits (increased crop productivity
and cultural intensification) are attained, the project would
finance demand-driven On-farm Technology Testing and Extension
(OFTT-Extension) services. These would be specific to each of the
subproject areas, but would encompass all agricultural activities
(irrigated and rainfed crop productions, including fruit trees,
livestock, bee keeping and silk production) in the area and would
complement the existing, private, supply-driven extension services.
Implementation of OFTT-Extension activities would be contracted out
to private institutions ( such as AUB-Housh Sneid, the Experimental
Research Center of the School of Agriculture of the Saint Joseph
University ICARDA's Terbol station, private consulting firms and
consultants), who would be asked to conduct, on the basis of
baseline surveys to determine farmers needs, on-farm demonstrations
and field testing of relevant technologies as well as organize
information field seminars for farmers on topics of immediate
concern to them. These topics would include, among other,
supplemental irrigation and mechanization of wheat and pulses
productions (in Yammouneh for example); crop pest and disease
control (Akkar, Dannieh, Quasmieh for example); improvement of on-
farm irrigation techniques and water use (all irrigation schemes);
rational fertilization of irrigated crops and use Integrated Pest
Management Techniques (IPM); etc. OFTT-Extension activities would be
financed through an OFTT-Extension facility under the control of
MOA. In addition to the long term consultant in charge of OFTT-
Extension planning and monitoring, the project would finance 5 sm of
expatriate expertise in OFTT-Extension (research/development and
extension), 4 sm of training overseas for MOA's extension staff, 2
computers, the purchase and production of extension documentation
and materials (leaflets, audio-video messages, etc.), 2 cars and
incremental recurrent costs for the operation and maintenance of
office equipment and vehicles. For the testing and demonstration of
agricultural technologies the project would finance, from the OFTT-
Extension facility, the procurement of equipment and inputs required
by the contractors for the conduct of the testing/demonstration and
extension activities. All equipment with a life longer than the
duration of the OFTT-Extension contract would be returned to MOA on
completion of the contract.



- 75 -                               Annex 6
Page 7 of 23
(C)   Quality Control of Agricultural Inputs and Pesticide Residues
Monitoring: (US$0.61 million base cost). To implement existing and
future farm input quality control regulations, aimed at
rationalizing the use of pesticides and enforcing quality standards
on agricultural produce (pesticide residues), the project would
finance the rehabilitation of two ARIL laboratories at Fanar, where
pesticide formulation, residues and chemical fertilizer analysis are
made. The project would also finance the procurement of laboratory
equipment as well as 2-2X4 pick ups, for sample collection and field
inspections, 3 and 7 person months each of expatriate and local
technical assistance and 8 person months of training overseas for
laboratory technicians. In addition to the above, the project would
enhance the capabilities of MOA's planned Plant Protection and
Quarantine Services Department, by financing the procurement of one
computer and accessories, two 2X4 double cabin pick-ups and 4 person
months of overseas training. Costs of recurrent expenditures for
operation and maintenance of vehicles, buildings and laboratories
would also be financed under the project.
2.6         Support to Prolect Implementation (US$0.25 million, base cost). The
project would complement the existing MOHER's Water Sector Implementation Unit
(MOHER) by providing a computer, a vehicle and 12 sm of an international
irrigation agronomist.
D. Proiect Cost
2.7         The total base cost of the institutional support component of the
project would amount to US$ 8.8 millio and project facilities would amount to
US$4.8 million. Breakdown of costs per sub-component are given in Appendix 1 to
11.
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.1         General.  To ensure the IRMP's full integration in the National
Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP) and its full coordination with the on-
going Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), the proposed
project would be managed by CDR. CDR would be assisted by the Program
Management Unit (PMU) established under the ERRP. Actual project execution
would be carried out by MOHER and MOA, assisted by the Water Sector
Implementation Unit (WSIU). This unit was recently established in MOHER to
implement the water sector program of the NERP and has the mandate and the
capability to handle irrigation. Procurement and disbursement under the project
would be handled by the CDR's PMU. This would avoid the cumbersome and time-
consuming procurement procedures under standard government regulations and would
benefit from the streamlined procurement procedures of the CDR. The PMU would
also keep the project's accounts and manage the Special Account.
3.2         Execution of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Component would be the
responsibility of the existing Water Sector Implementation Unit (WSIU). The
WSIU is under the authority of MOHER's Director General for Hydraulic and
Electric Equipment and is assisted by a team of international consultants
(WSIUC) financed for a period of three years by the European Union (EU) under



- 76 -                               Annex 6
Page 8 of 23
the Technical Assistance project to the Lebanese Administration. The team
leader of the WSIUC is the manager of the WSIU. Three Deputy Managers have been
nominated by MOHER to work as counterparts to the WSIU manager and, after
completion of the WSIU contract, are intended to become managers of their
respective water subsectors: water supply, wastewater and irrigation programs.
The Head of MOHER's Irrigation Service has been designated as deputy manager for
the irrigation subsector. This will ensure the appropriate coordination with
the water supply and wastewater rehabilitation projects implemented by the same
Sector Implementation Unit (SIU). Rehabilitation works would be contracted out
to private contractors.
3.3         The WSIU would have full responsibility and accountability for the
technically related project features and would be responsible for the following
tasks: (i) preparation of feasibility studies for specific schemes through
consultants and preparatory work for the recruitment of consultants; (ii)
supervision of the preparation of detailed engineering and tender documents and
contract packaging; (iii) management of consultants; (iv) all technical aspects
of procurement of goods and services; (v) monitoring of civil works contracts
and project supervision; (vi) periodic reporting; (vii) management of studies
and actions required for organizational and institutional development, and
adequate cost recovery; (viii) liaison and coordination with MOA, LRA and RWAs.
The WSIUC consists of the following units: technical services, contract
management, program monitoring and control, and administration, already staffed
by five international consultants in addition to the team leader (215 sm)
financed by the EU. Short term specialists (140 sm) will also be financed by
the EU. The proposed project would complement EU assistance by providing an
irrigation agronomist, as well as a four wheel drive vehicle and a computer.
3.4         operation and Maintenance of main headwork, main and secondary
canals, would be initially under the responsibility of existing Water
Authorities and Water Committees and would be automatically transferred to the
new Regional Water Irrigation Authorities (LRA, North Lebanon, North Bekaa,
Mount Lebanon) as soon as they are established (Annex 16).  Water users
associations would be responsible for O&M of tertiary canals. The Government's
Letter of Irrigation Sector Policy (Annexl6) indicates that the composition of
the board of the new Regional Water Irrigation Authorities will be revised to
include representatives of farmers. Project implementation would lead, after
rehabilitation of the selected schemes, to their substantial self-management and
self-financing. In line with GOL's policy, present scheme management and
administration procedures would be revised with the purpose of introducing
tighter management control, stricter financial control and greater
accountability. To ensure efficient management and to establish fiscal
accountability, the GOL intends to establish Regional Water Irrigation
Authorities (RWIAs) to handle O&M of headworks, main and secondary canals and
organize cost recovery. RWIA will have a lean structure and will contract out
O&M to private contractors and would progressively transfer their contributions
to autonomous Scheme Water Management Committees (SWMC). Water users'
representation in the boards of the RWIAs will ensure control of their operating
expenses.
3.5         Water Users' Involvement.  Although farmers are currently involved
in the operation of the schemes through unofficial Water Users' Associations
organized around ditch riders (Shawis), they are not involved in the management
of the schemes. This has two major consequences: (i) farmers are not aware of



- ~77 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 23
the real cost of irrigation O&M, especially when they see no improvement in
water distribution and are, therefore, sometimes reluctant to pay the
corresponding water charges, and (ii) simple O&M tasks, which could be more
effectively handled by farmers themselves, are sometimes neglected by the
Authorities. To increase the role and responsibilities of farmers in the
management of downstream irrigation systems, measures need to be taken to allow
for their involvement in the management of schemes through the support and
empowerment of existing WUAs grouping farmers at the outlet or village level.
3.6         The rehabilitation sequence would include, as a necessary step,
beneficiaries' review and approval of rehabilitation proposals; this dialogue
would start at the appraisal stage, for schemes yet to be selected. To that
effect, MOHER is launching social studies in all 28 schemes to evaluate social
priorities, and asses the willingness of the population to participate in the
project. Following completion of the feasibility studies, MOHER or LRA
personnel would visit the schemes and explain the engineering rehabilitation
plans to farmers' representatives, and Shawis, at village level. If the
farmers' representatives wish the works to go forward, they would, through the
RWA, formally approve the plans, and commit themselves and the farmers they
represent to using their own resources to fully finance and to carry out the
scheme maintenance as foreseen in the plans. In selected complex schemes like
Yammouneh, a Scheme Water Management Committee (SWMC) would be created. The SWMC
would comprise representatives from the Water Authority and representatives
designated by the WUAs. The SWMC would make decisions based on discussions in
which users' representatives would voice their demands; and users would receive
guidance on management of the secondary and tertiary networks.
3.7         During project implementation, RWAe and RWIAs would support the WUAs
in the operation and maintenance of the tertiary system, through: (a) informing
water users on O&M and cost-recovery procedures; (b) training the Shawis in the
O&M of the rehabilitated structures; and (c) regular supervision and assistance
to the Shawis. As execution of the civil works nears completion, the WSIU and
the RWIAs would prepare a manual of O&M which would describe in detail the
maintenance and other operations and provide adequate training. They would also
propose an annual O&M program that would detail the division of responsibilities
and functions for O&M between RWIAs and WUAs.
3.8         Execution of Aaricultural SuDvort Activities would be the
responsibility of MOA. However, the volume of work in implementing the
agricultural support activities sub-component of the IRMP does not warrant the
creation of a specific SIU at MOA. The local technical assistant in charge of
the OFTT-Extension at MOA and one of the local technical assistants to be hired
by ARIL would, with some assistance from the SIU at MOHER, prepare the required
documentation for tendering project financed procurement and consultant
services, etc. Procurement and disbursement would be handled by the CDR's PMU.
3.9         On-Station Agricultural Research would be executed by ARIL's staff
and the four applied research experts to be financed by the project would be
recruited before March 31, 1995. After their recruitment, the experts would
each produce an applied research program aimed at resolving the immediate
problems facing Lebanese agriculture in general and those of the subproject
areas in particular. ARIL's research would be coordinated with the OFTT-
Extension activities by the MOA group in charge of evaluating the performance of
the OFTT-Extension contractors.



-                                    Annex 6
Page 10 of 23
3.10        On-Farm Technology Testing and Extension (OFTT-Extension) activities
would be implemented through multi-year service contracts with private
institutions or consultants such as the American University of Beirut Housh
Sneid station, Saint Joseph University's Tanayel station, ICARDA's Terbol
station, NGOs, foreign universities or development institutions, consulting
firms or private consultants. Planning (formulation of TORs, evaluation of
consultants proposals, etc.), supervision and monitoring of this activity would
be undertaken by a long term expert, to be financed by the project.
3.11        Quality Control of Inputs and Produce.  Input and agricultural
produce quality control activities would be conducted by the inspectors and
assistants of MOA's Department of Quality Control and Quarantine Services and by
laboratory staff of ARIL at Fanar. Staff of MOA's Department of Quarantine
services would inspect produce packing houses, markets and input supply outlets,
collect product samples, and have them analyzed at ARIL's laboratories at Fanar.
Traders, farmers, public health institutions and private agro-processors and
exporters are also expected to have the Fanar laboratories analyze their produce
and input samples for a fee.
Coordination Arranaements
3.12        Technical Coordination Committee. Overall coordination of project
implementation would be under the responsibility of the Technical Coordination
Committee (TCC) established under the ERRP and composed of the PMU and of NERP's
SIUs. MOA, GP and ARIL would be invited to join TCC meetings on an ad-hoc
basis. The main functions of the TCC in its dealings with the IRMP would be to:
(i) ensure coordination with the ERRP projects on water supply, waste water
management and solid waste management; and (b) coordinate with other Government
Departments and resolve problems that might emerge during execution.



LE3APM
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernitation Project
Table 17. MSRE (Irrigation Department)
Detailed Coats
(USS *000)
Ruse Cost                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    2000    Total   1995    1996    1997    1996    1999    2000    Total
X. Zawe.tt   Coa"
A. BaLldLae"
Office Rehabilitation                   31.6      0.2       -        -        -       -    31.6    34.0       0.2        -        -        -       -    34.2
*. Offic  3q1m
Ca.uter PC                               S.2      5.2       -        -        _       _    10.4       S.3     5.4        -        -       -        -    10.7
photocopier                              2.1     2.1        -                                4.1     2.1      2.2        -        -       -        -      4.3
Office oquipmnt                          2.1        -       -        -        -       -      2.1      2.1       -        -        -        -       -      2.1
basic technical docientation            51.8        -       -                      _                93                                                  93.0
1tee   Office Equpet                       61.1      7.3        -       -        -        -    66.4    62.6       7.6       -        -        -        -    70.2
C. YWi.olea
t9d 51.5                                            - -                                     51.5    52.7        -        -        -       -        -    52.7
D. St_e
1. GoMeitci
Small scheme feasibility study    77.7   129.5   181.3            -        -       -   368.5    87.5   149.0   213.2           -       -        -   449.8
2. Small schme                             -   124.3   16S.6   124.3          -       -   414.4         -   130.l   177.2   135.9         -        -   443.2
-t.ta1    ios.                             77.7   253.6   347.1   124.3          -        -   803.0    87.5   279.1   390.5   135.9                    -   693.0
K.  S _ebfice  Aei.te
Civil Engir                             37.3    37.3    37.3    18.6          -       -   130.9    38.2    39.0    39.9    20.4           -             137.5
Irrigation Engineer                     37.3    37.3    18.6       9.3      9.3       _   111.9    38.2    39.0    19.9    10.2    10.4            -   117.7
Stotal   S 1oel Asaista                    74.6    74.6    55.9    26.0        9.3        -   242.4    76.4    76.0    99.6    30.6    10.4            -   255.2
r. !raaiag
1. oveea
Senior Engineer                         -     9.9      9.9      9.5        -       -    28.4         -     9.9    10.1    10.4         -        -    30.4
Enginwers                               -     6.3      6.3      6.3        -       -    19.0        -      6.6      6.6     6.9        -        -    20.3                                             _
Tachnicians                             -     6.3      6.3      6.3        -       -    19.0         -     6.6      6.8     6.9        -        -    20.3
ot.otal Ovawa                              -    22.1    22.1    22.1          _       _     66.4        -    23.1    23.7    24.2         -        -    71.0
2. loal
Sche   Egineers                         -     4.7      9.3      9.3        -       -    23.3        -      4.9    10.0    10.2         -        -    25.0
Technicians                             -       -      4.7      4.7        -                                                                    -93  So.  S.l   10.1
Sbtotal local                              -     4.7    14.0    14.0             _          32.6        -     4.9    15.0    15.3             _    -    35.1
ubtotal Training                              -    26.6    36.1    36.1          -        -    99.0        -    26.0    36.6    39.5          -    I       106.1
Total In_wtuoat Costs                         296.5   362.6   439.1   186.4         9.3       - 1.296.1   313.1   392.9   488.9   205.9    10.4            - 1.411.3
22. PeoUE.mt Coate
A. OAK Vehiclex                             7.9      7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5      7.5    45.2      7.7      7.9     6.0      6.2      8.4      6.6    48.8
S. Oof Otfice Equipment                     0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6     3.8      0.6      0.7      0.7     0.7      0.7      0.7     4.1
Total  _reot Coat.                               6.2      8.2     6.2      8.2      6.2     6.2    49.       06.4     .95      6.7    6.9       9.1      9.3    53.0
Total                                           304.7   370.6   447.3   196.6    17.5        8.2 1.345.0   321.5   401.5   497.6   214.8    19.9          9.3 1.464.2
Sun Jun 05 14:57:12 1994
OQ
_ :1>
Dh M
X
W O
16-1 NIl  (Irrigation Daprt_nt



LE8ANON
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 13. Litani River Authority (Department of Studies and Project)
Detailed Coat.
(USS '000)
Base Cost                                Totals Including Contingencies
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total  1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
I. Soeat_mat Costs
A. Equipmnt
Ccputer PC                        5.2   5.2                              10.4     5.3      5.4        -       -        -        -    10.7
Photocopiyng machine              2.1      -      _     _      _     -   2.1      2.1        -        _       _        _        _     2.1
Office Equipent                   4.1      -      -     -      -      -   *.1      4.2       -        -        -       -        -      4.2
basic Technical documentation  51.8        -      -   _        -      -  51.8    53.0        -        - -              -        -    53.0
ubtotal Equip t                      63.2   5.2      -      _            -  68.4    64.7      5.4        -        -       -        -    70.1
B. Vahiolee
tid                              77.3      -      -     -      -      -  77.3    79.1        -        -       -        -        -    79.1
C. haldiinge
Office Rahabiliation             31.6      -      -     -      -      -  31.6    34.0         -       -        -       -        -    34.0
D. Ta-bnioal A.diatnoe
Civil Enqineer                   74.6 149.2  74.6       -      -      - 298.4    76.4   156.1    79.8          -       -        -   312.2
Irrigation Engineer              74.6 149.2  74.6  37.3        -     - 335.7    76.4   156.1    79.8    40.8           -        -   353.0
Subtotal Tehnioal Assistance    149.2 298.4 149.2  37.3          -      - 634.1   152.7   312.2   159.5    40.8          -        -   665.2
E. Traii
. Overe
Senior Engineer                  -   9.5   9.5   9.5        -     -  28.4        -    10.9    11.1    11.4          -        -    33.5
Engineer                         -   6.3   6.3   6.3        -     -  19.0        -      7.3      7.4     7.6        -        -    22.3
Technicians                      -   6.3   6.3   6.3        -     -  19.0        -      7.3      7.4     7.6        -        -    22.3
Subtotal Oyreeas                     -  22.1  22.1  22.1I      -                     -    25.5    26.0    26.6         -        -    78.1
2. Local
Engineers                        -   2.4   2.4   2.4        -          7.3       -      2.8      2.8     2.9        -        -     8.5
Technicians                      -   4.8   4.0   4.8        -     -  14.5        -      5.6      5.7     5.6        -        -    17.1                                                                    0)
Subtotal Looal                       -   7.3   7.3   7.3   _          -  21.8        -     8.4      8.5     8.7        -        -    25.6
Subtotal Traiing                        -  29.4  29.   29.4       -      -   8.2        -    33.8    34.6    35.3         -        -   103.7
Total Investment C;ots                  321.3 333.0 178.6  66.7        -     - 899.5   330.5   351.4   194.1    76.1           -        -   952.0
11. Rlecurrent Cost
A. OAK Vehicles                      11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  11.3  67.7    11.6    11.6    12.1    12.3    12.6    12.9    73.3
B. Building maintenance               0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4         0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.4
C. 04M Office Equipent                0.3   0.3   0_3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.9         0.3     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4      2.1
Total Reio.rrnt Cost                     11.7  11.7  11.7  11.7  11.7   11.7   70.0    11.9    12.2    12.5    12.8    13.0    13.3    75.7
Total                                    332.9 344.6 I90.3  78.4  11.7  11.7 969.5   342.4   363.6   206.6    88.8    13.0    13.3 1,027.8
Sun Jun 05 14:56:45 1994
042
(D
S >
:3
O z
Ph m
12-1 Liteni River Authority (Department of Studies and Project)



Irrigation Rehabilitation *nd Modernization Project
Table 11. Ministry of Agriculture (Green Plan)
Detailed Coate
(US$ 000)
Base Cost                       Totals Including Contingencies
1995  1996  1997  1990  1999  2000  Total 1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
* . 1 ot.ent Costs
A. Dildinge
Office rehoabilitation        31.6      -     -     -     -      - 31.6  34.0      -      -     -     -      -  34.0
*3. quimtt
Ce puter PC                    5.2   5.2      -     -     -      -  10.4   5.3   5.4      -     -     -      -  10.7
thotocopiyng machine           2.1   2.1      -     -     -      -   4.1   2.1   2.2      -     -     -      -   4.3
Office Equiient                2.1                                   2.1   2.1                                   2.1
Subtotal tquimnt                  9.3   7.3      -     -      -     -  16.6   9.5   7.6      -     -      -     -  17.1
C. Vehielee
1,4 d                         51.5  51.5  51.5      _     -      - 154.5  52.7  53.9  55.1      -     -      - 161.7
D. Studiu-
Detail Design Small Schows  41.4  82.9  41.4  41.4        -      - 207.2  46.7  95.4  48.7  49.8      -      - 240.6
C. Tchnical  Assiatae
Rural Engineer                18.6  18.6  18.6  19.6      -      -  74.6  19.1  19.5  19.9  20.4      -      -  78.9
Irrigation Enginer            18.6  18.6  18.6  18.6      -     -  74.6  19.1  19.5  19.9  20.4       - 4       78.9
ubtotal TahLioal Aeuistanoe   37.3  37.3  37.3  37.3         -     - 149.2  38.2  39.0  39.9  40.6       -     - 157.6
V. Training
1. Ovesea.
Senior Enginer              9.5   9.5   9.5      -     -      -  28.4   9.7   9.9  10.1      -               29.8
Engineers                   6.3   6.3   6.3      -     -     -  19.0   6.5   6.6   6.8       -     -     -  19.8
Technicians                 6.3   6.3   6.3            -      -  19.0   6.5   6.6   6.8   _        -      -  19.8
pubtotal Overeeae             22.1  22.1  22.1            -      -  66.4  22.6  23.1  23.7      -     -      -  69.4
2. Local
Engineers                   7.0   7.0   9.3                   -  23.3   7.2   7.3  10.0      -     -     -  24.4
Technicians                 2.3   2.3  4.7             -      -   9.3   2.4   2.4   5.0      -     -     _   9.8
subtotal Local                 9.3   9.3  14.0            -      -  32.6   9.5   9.8  15.0      -     -      -  34.3
Subtotal Training                31.4  31.4  36.1      -      -   _    99.0  32.2  32.9  36.6      _            - 103.7
Total !nwe t nt Cost.               202.6 210.4 166.4  78.7       -     - 658.1 213.3 228.8 182.3  90.6       -     - 714.9
II. Reourrent Coate
A. OM Vehicles                   7.5  15.1  22.6  22.6  22.6  22.6 112.9   7.7  15.7  24.1  24.7  25.2  25.8 123.3
8. Office Equip_nt                0.6   6 0   0.     0.6   0.6   0 .6   3.8   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   4.1
Total PRaorent Ceot.                   8.2  15.7  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2 116.7   8.4  16.4  24.8  25.4  25.9  26.5 127.4
Total                                210.8 226.1 189.6 102.0  23.2  23.2 774.8 221.6 245.2 207.1 115.9  25.9  26.5 842.3
Sun Jun 05 14:56:31 1994
OQ
D
>
11   i
10-1 Ministry of Agriculturo (Groan Plan)



LEUACN
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 12. Regional Water Boards and Water User Associations
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                          Totals Including Contingencies
1995  1996  1997  1990  1999  2000  Total 1995  1996  1997  1999  1999  2000  Totel
1. nvestm Coset
A.   Sraom
1. Oversass
Chief Engineers                  -   7.4   7.4        -      -      -  14.8      -   8.5   6.7        -     -      -  17.2
Engine,rs                        -   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4          -  29.6      -   6.5   8.7   8.9   9.1         -  35.2
Technician                       -   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4          -  29.6      -   6.5   6.7   8.9   9.1         -  35.2
)dinistrative/Accountnt           -   7.4   7.4       -      -      -  14.8       -   8.5   6.7       -     -      _  17.2
subtotal Overseas                    -  29.6  29.6  14.6  14.6         -  88.8       -  34.0  34.6  17.6  18.2        - 104.6
2. Local
Engineers                        -   1.8   2.9   2.9   1.2          -   8.6      -   2.0   3.5   3.5   1.4         -  10.4
Technicians                      -   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9          -  11.7      -   3.4   3.5   3.5   3.6         -  14.0
Administrative/Accountant         -   1.2    1.8   1.8   1.2        -   5.9       -   1.4   2.1   2.1   1.4        -   7.0
Subtotal Local                       -   5.9   7.6   7.6   5.3         -  26.4       -   6.0   9.0   9.2   6.5        -  31.4
3. Water Users
Local Courses                    -   4.7   7.0   7.0   7.0   4.7  30.5           -   5.4   8.3   6.5   6.7   5.9  36.7
Workshops (2 data)             _     16.4  16.4  24.6  16.4   6.2  82.2          -  18.9  19.3  29.6  20.2  ?0.3  98.4
Subtotal Water Usrs                  -  21.1  23.5  31.7  23.5  12.9 112.7           -  24.3  27.6  38.1  28.8  16.2 135.1
subtotal Training                       -  56.6  60.7  54.1  43.6  12.9 227.9           -  65.1  71.4  65.0  53.5  16.2 271.2
t. ehniaol Aseijtaese
1. 2xpatriate                        -  15.1  15.1  15.1  15.1         -  60.4       -  15.8  16.1  16.5  16.9        -  65.3
2. Local                         48.3 120.7 241.4        -      -      - 410.0  49.4 126.3 256.1         -      -     - 433.6
Total                                      48.3 192.4 317.2  69.2  58.6  12.9 698.6  49.4 207.2 345.6  81.5  70.3  16.2 770.3
Sun Jun 05 14:56:39 1994
4- >
O Q
W m
t1dU
11-1 Begionel Water Boards and Water User Associations



Irrigation Rehebilitation and Modernization Project
Table 8. Project Facilities including O6W
Detailed Clet
(US, .000)
base Cost                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
I. 1bYe5 t costs
A. Quamih Sche
1. 3q ,t
a. Offia Eqoiimnt (sad
Computer                                                  5.2        -        -        -       -        -      5.2     5.3        -        -        -       -        -      5.3
Photocopying machine                                      2.1        -        -        -       -        -     2.1      2.1        -        -        -       -        -     2.1
Other *qui4_nt                                             6.2                 -       -       -        -       .2     6.3        --                                        6.3
tubtotal Offioe Eqoipsmt (Saida)                             13.5        -       _        _        _             13.5    13.9        -            -       _             -    13.8
2. Vehicle  ad Wriawy  (Saida)
a. Vehidleo
Station Wagon (4    el drive)                            50.0        -                 -       -        -    50.0    51.2         -        -        -       -        -    51.2
Pick up (4  heel drive)                                  20.0        -        -        -       -        -    20.0    20.5         _        _        _       _        -    20.5
Truck                                                        -       -    43.3         -       -        -    43.3        -        -    46.3         -       -        -    46.3
Motorcycles                                                                21.0                              210                  -    22.5         -                - -   22.5
S~~tctal VeMelse  ~~~~~~~70.0                            -     64.3        -       -        - 134.3    7.             -     .7                          -   140.4
b. Waehimy
Loader-Iackho                                                -       -    97.1         -       -        -    97.1        -        - 103                                  103.0
utotal aile   ad Wahaezy  Mid)                                 7 .          -  161.4        _                     231.4    71.7         _   172.6    _              ;          244.2
subtotal Deamsiah 6wms                                             S3.5        - 161.4           -       -            244.9    95.5         - 172.6          -                 - 256.0
D. TYMc       b 
1. squipmeat
a. Office  quipnt                                               -        -     6.2        -        -       -      6.2        -       -      6.6        -       -        -      6.6
2. vie3.e  md mommiry
a. Vehicle*                                                                                                                                                                                               00
Statin Wagon Owd)                                        25.0        -        -        -       -        -    25.0    25.6         -        -        _       _        _    25.6                         W
Pick up 1Owd)                                            40.0        -        -        -       -        -    40.0    40.9         -        -        -       -        -    40.9
Truck                                                        -       -    43.3         -       -        -    43.3        -        -    46.3        -        -        -    46.3
motorcycles                                                                10.5    10.5        -        -     21.0        -       -    11.2    11.5         -        -22.7
Mtottal VWhiales                                             65.0        -    53.8    10.5         _       -   129.3    66.5         -    57.5    11.5          _       _   135.5
b. Machieary
Loader-Iackhos                                               -    97.1        -        -       -        -    97.1        -   101.6         -        -       -        - 101.6
subtotal VeiCles mad macbins:ry                                 65.0    97.1    53.9    10.           -         -i226.4   -66.5   101.16    57.5   -11.5                        237.
Subtotal. lamv      - Schie                                        65.0    97.1    60.0    10.5        -      -       232.6    66.5   101.6    64.2    11.5                        243.7
C. Dsnn2y Scebme
1. Equipt
a. Office Equip_nt                                           18.2        -       -        -        -       -    18.2    16.6         -        -        -        -       -    18.6
2. Vahicles and Machuire
a. Vehiales
Station Wagon (4wD)                                      25.0        -        -        -       _        _    25.0    25.6         -        -        -       -        -    25.6
Pick-Up (4WD)                                            20.0    20.0         -        -       -        -    40.0    20.5    20.9          -        -       -        -    41.4
Truck                                                        -    43.3        -        -        -       -    43.3        -    45.3         -        -                     4 -    45.3
Motorcycles                                               10.5    10.5        -        -       -        -     21.0    10.7    110HA                                        21.7
Subtotal Vehicles                                            55.5    73.8        -        -                _   129.3    56.8    77.2                   _        _ -          134.0
b. Machiery
Load*r-Backhoe                                               -    97.1        -        -       -        -    97.1        -   101.6         -        _       _        _   101.6
Smll Tools and Machinery                                     -    11.8        -        -       -        -    11.8        -    12.3         _    I           _    I        12.3
subtotal Machinery                                              -   108.9        _                         - .108.9          -   113.9        -        -       -        -   113.9
Subtotal Vehicles and Machinery                                 55.S   182.7         -       -        -        -   238.2    56.8   191.1          -       -        _    1       247.9
Subtotal Dannlys Scbm                                              73.7   182.7         -        -       -        -   256.4    75.4   191.1          -        -       -        -   266.6
D. Akkar Dared lSheme
1. tquipent
a. Office Equip_nt                                              -      0.6     1.5      0.9        -       -      2.9        -     0.6      1.6      1.0       -        -      3.1                    00
2. Vehicles and Macbinery
a. Vehicles
Pick-Up (4ND)                                            20.0        -        -        -       -        -    20.0    20.5         -        -        -       -        -    20.5                     >  M>
Motorcycles                                                4.2          _ _     _ _                     _      4.2     4.3        -        -        -       -        -      4.3
Subtotal Vehicles                                           24.2         -       -        -        -       -    24.2    24.8         -        -        -       -        -    24.8                     O  D
b. Machine 
Loader-backhoe                                              -    97.1         -        -       -        -    97.1        -   101.6         -       -        -        -   101.6                       5X
1-1 Project Facilities including 04;H



St11 toolx and Machinery                                        11.8       -        - _                   11.             12         .- 1                           12.3
b         Mh ey                                               _   108.9        -       -       -        -   10.9             113.9       -       -        _       _   113.9
subtotal Vehicle  aod machiney                                24.2   108.9                  _ _ _              133.1    24.6   113.         -                            136.7
Subtot.al Akkar Bared Schem                                     24.2   109.5      1.5      0.9       -       - 139.6    24.6   114.5         1.6     1.0       -        - 141.6
E. South Sekaa  cbme
1. 39ai.t
a. Office 8quip.nt                                         30.3       -        -       -       _        _    30.3    31.0        -               -                     31.0
2.Vehicle. d Mbacinery
a. Vebicles
Staticn Uegcn (D)1)                                    25.0        -       -        -       -       -    25.0    25.6         -       _       _       _        _    25.6
Pick-Up (4MD)                                              -    20.0       -        -       -       -    20.0        -    20.9        _       _       _        _    20.9
Truck                                                      -    43.3       -        -                     63.3       -    45.3                                      45.3
Motorcycl,                                                 -    1 10.5                                    10.5       -    11.0        -       -       -        -    11.0
Subtotal Vebiale                                          25.0    73.6        -       -       -        -    96.6    25.6    77.2        -       -        -       -   102.0
b. Machinery
Loeder-Backhoe                                            -    97.1        -        -       -       -    97.1        -   101.6        -       -       -        -   101.6
Small Tools and Machinery                                  -    11.6       -    _           -       -    11.6        -    12.3        -       -       -        -    12.3
subtotal  rimery                                                  10e.9        -       -       -        -   108.9              39        -       -        -       -   113.9
Subtotal ehicles a- d Macbinery                               25.0   182.7        -       -        -       -   207.7    25.6   191.1        -       -        -       -   216.7
Subtotal South Deba                                              55.3   162.7        -       -        -       -   238.0    56.6   191.1        -        -       -       -   247.7
V. Small an  leim  Zrrigation Sob_
1. Equipment
a. Pilot on-fern Irrigation                                   -    12.1    24.3    36.4    36.4    12.1   121.4         -    14.0    28.6    43.6    44.7    15.2  146.3
b. Materials for Project Tertiaries and Minor Canals          -   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   500.0         -   115.1   117.6   120.2   122.6   125.5   601.3
c. Office Equipmnt                                            -     7.6    19.0    11.4        -        -    36.0       -      6.0    20.3    12.5        -       -    40.7
subtotal qui4nt                                                  -   119.7   143.3   147.0   136.4   112.1   659.4          -   137.0   166.5   176.4   167.6   140.6   760.3
2. Vehiales and Machinery
a. Veicle.
Station Wagon  4D1)                                        -    25.0    25.0        -       -       -    50.0        -    26.2    26.7        -       -        -    52.9
Pick-Up  49WD)                                            -    60.0    40.0    40.0         -       -   140.0        -    62.8    42.8    43.7        -        -   149.2
Motorcycles                                                -    14.7    21.0    10.5        -        -    46.2       -    15.4    22.5    11.5        -        -    49.3
subtotal Veicle.                                              -    99.7    86.0    50.5        _        -   236.2       -   104.3    91.9    55.2         -       -   251.4                        l
b. Mchinery 
Buldozer                                                   -       -   133.9        -       _       _   133.9        -        -   143.2       -       _        _   143.2                       4
Loadar-Backhoe                                             -    97.1    97.1    97.1        _       _   291.3        -   101.6   103.8   106.1        -        -   311.5
Small Tools and Machinery                                  -       -    30.0        -       -       -    30.0        -       -    32.1        -       -        -    32.1                        1
Subtotal Maci inry                                            -    97.1   261.0    97.1        -        _   455.2       -   101.6   279 1   106.1         -       -   486.7
Subtotal shclde  and Machinery                                   -   196.8   347.0   147.6         -       -   691.4        -   205.9   371.0   161.3        -       -   738.2
Subtotal Small and Mediua Irrigation S                              -   316.5   490.3   295.4   136.4   112.1  350.8           -   342 9   537.5   337.7   167.6   140.8 1,526.4
Total Ineast_nt Costs                                               301.7   668.5   713.1   306.6   136.4   112.1 2,458.7   306.8   941.3   775.7   350.1   167.6   140.6 2,664.3
II. 3ecurant Coots
A. Quaniie  Scheme
1. Pumping Costs                                                 -       -        -       -       -    40.0    40.0        -        -       -       -        -    45.6    45.6
2. Maintenance (Irrigation infrastructure)                       -       -        -    29.7    44.6    57.9   132.2         -       -       -    32.5    49.8    66.1   148.4
3. O0 Vehicles and Mac ry
4 M(1                                                       7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0    42.0     7.2      7.3     7.5     7.6      7.6     6.0    45.4
Pick-ups                                                    3.5     3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5    21.0     3.6      3.7     3.7     3.6      3.9     4.0    22.7
Truck                                                         -       -     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7    16.6       -        -     5.0     5.1      5.2     5.3    20.6
Motorcycles                                                   -       -     2.9      2.9     2.9      2.9    11.7       -        -     3.1     3.2      3.3     3.3    12.9
Loader-Sackhoe                                                -       -     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3    17.1       -        -     4.6     4.7      4.6     4.9    18.9
subtotal OW Vehicle. and Machinery                           10.5        10.5     22.3     22.3    22.3    22.3   110.3    10.7    11.0    23.9    24.4    24.9    25.5   120.4
4. dildi   Maint
Existing office                                               -     2.8     2.6      2.8     2.8      2.8    14.1       -      2.9     3.0     3.1      3.1     3.2    15.4
New offices                                                   -       -      5.7     5.7     5.7      5.7    22.6        -       -     6.1     6.2      6.3     6.5    25.0
Subtotal building Main_tenace                                          2.8      8.5     6.5     8.5      8.5    36.7        -     2.9     9.1     9.3      9.5     9.7    40.4
5. Miscellaneous                                                 -       -      5.8     5.8      5.9     5.     23.4        -       -     6.2     6.4      6.5     6.7    25.8
Subtotal ouaieh Sch                                              10.5    13.3    36.7    66.4    81.2   134.6   342.6    10.7    13.9    39.2    72.5    90.7   153.6   360.7
S. Yaneb Scbeme
1. Maintenance (Irrigat. Infrastructures)                        -       -        -    29.7    44.6    63.9   138.2        -        -       -    32.5    49.8    72.9   155.2
2. o0  Vehicles-  ad Machinery                                                                                                                                                                   09
4wd                                                         3.5     3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5    21.0     3.6      3.7     3.7     3.6      3.9     4.0    22.7                   (5
Pick up                                                     7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0    42.0     7.2      7.3     7.5     7.6      7.6     6.0    45.4
Truck                                                         -       -     4.7      4.7     4.7      4.7    16.6       -        -     5.0     5.1      5.2     5.3    20.6 
Motorcycles                                                   -       -      1.5     2.9     2.9      2.9    10.2       -        -     1.6     3.2      3.3     3.3    11.3                      :D
Loader-Backho                                                 -       -     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3    17.1       -        -     4.6     4.7     4.8      4.9    16.9                   0  0
subtotal O0  Vebiacle and MacLnery                            10.5    10.5    20.9    22.3    22.3    22.3   106.9    10.7    11.0    22.3    24.4    24.9    25.5   118.9                           Mh X
1. maili      antn
Exsiting Offices                                              -    14.0    14.0    14.6    14.0    14.0    70.0         -    14.6    15.0    15.3    IS.6    16.0    76.5
1-2 Project Vacilities including OeM



No  Offices                                                   -       -    18.7    18.1   16.7    18.1    74.6                   -    19.9    20.4    20.6    21.3    *2.5
Rtntal biIdn    Nteme                                            -    14.0    32.6    32.6    32.6    32.6   144.6         -    14.6    34.9    35.7    36.1    37.3   11S.9
4. Miscellaneus                                                  -       -      5.6     1.6     5.8     5.8    23.4        -        -     6.2     6.4      6.1     6.7    2S.6
btotal Ta zI  Subwa.                                             10.1    24.1    19.4    90.5   105.4   124.1   415.0               25.6    63.5    98.9   117.7   142.3  1i171
C. Dn-iye Scheme
1. Maintenance (Irrigation Infrastructure)                       -       -    33.5    67.1    63.9    83.9   266.3         -       -    315.9    73.3    93.6    95.7   298.5
2. OSY Vehicles and Macinery
Station Wagon (4WD)                                        3.S      7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    36.5      3.6     7.3      7.5     7.6     7.8      8.0    41.8
Pick-Up (4WD)                                              3.5      7.0     7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0    38.5      3.6     7.3      7.5     7.6     7.8      8.0    41.8
Truck                                                         -     4.7     4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7    23.3        -     4.9      1.0     1.1     5.2      5.3    25.5
Motorcycles                                                 1.1     2.9     2.9      2.9     2.9     2.9    16.0      1.1     3.0      3.1     3.2      3.3     3.3    17.4
Loader-Backhom                                                -     4.3     4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3    21.4        -     4.5      4.6     4.7     4.6      4.9    23.4
Small Tools and Machinery 3q.                                       3.8     3.6      3.6     3.8     3.6    22.7      3.9     4.0      4.0     4.1     4.2      4.3    24.6
5~~tot.al U Vehicle, end  Mabinesy                            12.2       29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    160.3    12.5    31.0    31.7    32.4    33.1    33.6   174.4
3. Building iain
Existing Offices                                             -      4.1     4.5     4.1      4.S     4.1    22.6        -     4.7      4.8     4.9      5.0     5.2    24.7
New Offices                                                   -       -     6.9      6.9     6.9     6.9    27.7        -        -     7.4     7.6      7.7     7.9    30.6
Sutotal uildin  Maintenance                                      -     4.5    11.4    11.4    11.4    11.4    50.3         -      4.7    12.2    12.5    12.6    13.1    55.3
4. Miscellaneous                                                 -     6.3      6.3     6.3     6.3     6.3    31.6        -      6.6     6.8     6.9      7.1     7.2    34.5
sutotal D           _iye Seme                                    12.2    40.5    80.9   114.1   131.2   131.2   510.5    12.5    42.3    66.5   125.1   146.5   149.6   162.7
D. Akkar Barid sch
1. Maintenance (Irrigation Infrastructure)                       -       -     3.4    10.1    13.4    13.4    40.3         -        -     3.6    11.0    15.0    15.3    44.9
2. OW Vehicles and Maehiaaxy
Pick-Up (4D)                                               3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5     3.5    21.0      3.6     3.7      3.7     3.8     3.9      4.0    22.7
Mlotorcycles                                                0.6     0.6     0.6      0.6     0.6     0.6      3.1     0.6      0.6     0.6     0.6      0.7     0.7     3.6
Loader Backhoe                                               -      4.3     4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3    21.4        -     4.1      4.6     4.7     4.8    4.9    23.4
Small Tools and Machinery                                     -     3.8     3.       3.8     3.8     3.6    16.9        -     4.0      4.0     4.1      4.2     4.3    20.7
Subtotal UY Vehicles ad Machinery                              4.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    64.6       4.2    12.7    13.0    13.3    13.6    13.9    70.5
3. Building Maintenance                                          -     3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0    15.0        -      3.1     3.2     3.3      3.4     3.4    16.4
4. Miscllaneous                                                  -     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.1    12.3        -      2.6     2.6     2.7      2.7     2.6    13.4
subtotal Akk.er Barid Schem                                       4.1    17.6    21.0    27.7    31.0    31.0   132.3       4.2    16.4    22.4    30.2    34.6    35.4   145.3
C. South Beka Scheme
1. Maintenance (Irrigation Infrastructure)                       -       -    16.8    33.5    33.5    33.5   117.4         -        -    17.9    36.6    37.5   36.3   130.3
2. OW Vehiales and bivA,y                                                                                                                                                                            CO
Station Wagon (4WD)                                        3.5      3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5     3.1    21.0      3.6     3.7      3.7     3.8      3.9     4.0    22.7                      UL
Pick-Up (4WD)                                                 -     3.5     3.5      3.5     3.5     3.5    17.1        -     3.7      3.7     3.8     3.9      4.0    19.1
Truck                                                         -     4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7     4.7    23.3        -     4.9      5.0     1.1      5.2     1.3    25.5
Motorcycle                                                    -     1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5     1.5      7.3       -      1.1     1.6     1.6      1.6     1.7     8.0
Loader-Backhoe                                               -      4.3     4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3    21.4        -     4.1      4.6     4.7     4.8      4.9    23.4
Small Tools and Machinery                                    -      3.      3.8      3.6     3.6     3.6    16.9        -     4.0      4.0    4*1      4.2      4.3    20.7
Sutotal SU Vehicles and   Ibney                                3.5    21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2    21.2   109.4       3.6    22.1    22.6    23.1    23.6   24.2   119.3
3. Building Uina
Rehabilitated Buildings                                      -      6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0    30.0        -     6.3      6.4     6.6     6.7      6.9    32.8
4. Miscellaneous                                                 -     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0    25.0        -      5.2     5.3     S.S      5.6     5.7    27.3
subtotal South Bekan Scheme                                       3.5    32.2    48.9    65.7    65.7    65.7   281.6       3.6    33.7    52.3    71.6    73.4    75.0   309.8
Y. 11l end bindiurm ?xgatin scheme
1. Maintenance (Irrigation Infrastructure)                       -       -    18.5    53.7   105.7   218.1   396.0         -        -    19.7    50.7   118.1  249.0   44S.4
2. OW Vedlele and Machinery
Station Wagon (4ND))                                          -     3.5     7.0      7.0     7.0     7.0    31.5        -     3.7      7.5     7.6     7.6      8.0    34.6
Pick-Up (4WD)                                                 -    10.5    17.5    24.5    24.5    24.5   101.4         -    11.0    18.7    26.7    27.3    27.9   111.7
Motorcycle                                                    -     2.0     5.0      6.4     6.4     6.4    26.2        -      2.1     5.3     7.0      7.2     7.3    26.9
Load*r-Backhoe                                               -      6.5    12.8    12.8    12.8        -    47.0        -     8.9    13.7    14.0    14.3         -    11.0
Small Tools and Machinery                                    -      3.6     7.6      7.6     7.6     7.6    34.1        -     4 .0     6.1     63        .S    86.6    37.4
Subtotal UYVehio3.e end  Ya~ xy                                 -    29.4   49.6    16.3    19.3    41.1   240.2          -    29.7    13.3    63.7    65.1    51.9   263.6                       oo
3. Building Maitenace
Existing Offices                                              -       -     3.0      6.0     9.0     9.0    27.0        -       -      3.2     6.6    10.1    10.3    30.1
New Offices                                                   -       -        -     3.0     6.0     9.0    18.0        -        -       -     3.3      6.7    10.3    20.3
Subtotal uilding Maintnan                                                       3.0     9.0    15.0    18.0    45.1        -        _     3.2     9.8    16.8    20.6    10.4
4. Miscellaneous                                                                7.4     7.4     7.4     7.4    29.8        -        -     6.0     6.1      6.3     8.5    32.9                     O  >
Subtotal Small aed medion hrigatim Schme                            -    26.4    78.7   128.4   186.4   289.1   711.0         -    29.7    84.2   140.3   208.2   329.9   792.3                        -  tD
Total Bectment Co-ts                                                 40.8   156.4   325.6   493.2   601.0   776.3 2.393.3    41.8   163.6   348.1   136.9   671.2   886.0 2,649.5                             0
Sotal                                                                342.5 1 044.9 1.038.7   600.0   737.5  986.4 4,852.0   350.6 1,104.6 1,123.6   869.0   638.6 1.026.0 5,333.9                              0
Sun Jun 05 15:22:24 1994
1-3 Project Facilities including OSM



Itrigatica Rehabilitation and NoderniuetiLa Project
Table 15. U7drogeoloqical Sorvicu (NNW
Detail" Ceeti
(US$ 1000)
"soe Cost                        totals Inclugina Continoencieo
19_1 19I_ 1997  1996  1999  2000  Total 1 R     196  1997  IL998    It9  2000  Total
1.  _ewsomt  Cat
A. Laboratory Buimp t                  4S.6      -     46.6  47.7                          - _      _                  47.7
D. Offie   _      t
Cqmutrs                             20.7      -     -     -      -     -  20.7  21.2       -     -     -      -     -  21.2
Softt_ro                             8.3 *                                3    59       -     -     - 0 * J,
Others                               4.1      -     -      -     -     -   4.1   4.2       -     -     -      -   I     4.2
Otetf  gies aga.pet                   33.2      -     - 33.2  33.9                          -     -      -     -     -  33.9
C. Veale*
4"d                                 25.@      -     -     -2.6-21.6  26.4                 -     -     -      -     -  26.4
D. tebo1al Dioto.
1. Losi Consultat
Ccmuter Specialist                  -   4.1      -     -      -     -   4.1      -   4.3      -     -      -     -   4.3
2.  ntozoati  Clultaste
Hydroqeoloqiat                      -  24.9  12.4  12.4       -     -  *9.7      -  26.0  13.3  13.6       -     -  12.9
Enviromentalist                     -  24.9  12.4  12.4       -     -  49.7      -  26.0  13.3  13.6      -      -  52.9
Subtotal tatamatio. Cmult  ta          -  49.7  24.0  24.9       -     -  99.5      -  52.0  26.6  27.2       -     - 105.6
Subtotal teSnical Asistae                  -  53.9  24.9  24.9      -     - 103.6      -  56.4  26.6  27.2       -     - 110.1
C. Stuies
Storago Reserv. Yamowneh           257.2      -     -     -      -     - 257.2 263.2       -     -     -      -     - 263.2
total Invstme  Costs                       362.7  13.9  24.9  24.9      -      - 466.3 371.3  56.4  26.6  27.2       -      - 481.4
Xi. 6trmt Coste
A. O4  Vehiclo,                        3.0   3.6   3.6   3.8   1.9   1.9  16.6   3.9   3.9   4.0   4.1   2.1   2.1  20.2
S. Other Expenses                       1.1   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2  12.1   1.1   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.5  13.1
C. Preperation of reports                  -       -   2.2    -     -     -   2.2      -      -   2.3      -     -     -   2.3
total Reotrent Costs                         4.9   6.0   6.1   6.0   4.1   4.1  33.1   5.0   6.2   6.7   6.5   4.6   4.7  315.6                                                                                CO
total                                       367.15  9.6  33.0  30.6   4.1   4.1 499.4 376.2  62.6  35.3  33.7   4.6   4.7 117.0
Sun Jun 05 14:16:56 1994
03
00
Q
04
-  i
14-1 Hydrosr oloqical S-rvices (MIER)



Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 16. Litani kiver Authority (Department of Water Resources)
Detailod Coate
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                        Totals Including Contingencies
1995  1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  Total 1995  1996  1997  1999  1999 .20    Total
I.     ea*tmnt Coete
A. Eqimfto
1. Nydrc_tric Iaterials        118.1      -     -                     119.1 120.9       -                           120.9
2. Office Equipet
Computers                    20.7      -     -             -     -  20.7  21.2      -     21.2
Softwares                     8.3      -     -      -      -     -   8.3   8.5         -                        8.5
Others                        t.1      -     -             4.1   t.1   4.2                                         4.2
Subtotal Offise rqiipmt         33.2      -     -      _      _     -  33.2  33.9       -     -      -     -     -339
Subtotal Equip-to                 151.3      -      -     -      -     - 151.3 154.8       -                           154.8
B. Building Construction           31.6      -      -      -     -      -  31.6  34.0      -     34.0
C. Vehioles
4id                             41.2      -     -      -      -     -  41.2  42.2       -     -       42.2
D. Techiosl Aegistant
1. Local oultente
Cputer Specialist               -   4.1   4.1   4.1       -      -  12.4      -   4.3   4.4   4.5                 13.3
2. 1nternationa  eialtsnte
Hydrologist                     -  24.9  12.4  12.4        -     -  49.7         26.0  13.3  13.6                 52.9
Subtotal Teeboial .Asistaea            -  29.0  16.6  16.6       -      -  62.2         30.3  17.7  18.1                66.2
Total Investnt Coate                   224.1  29.0  16.6  16.6       -      - 296.2 231.0  30.3  17.7  19.1                 297.2
S1. Reaurent Coate
A. 06K Vehicles                      7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5  45.2   7.7   7.9   8.0   9.2   8.4   8.6  49.9
B. Preparartion of reports             -   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2  11.0        -   2.3   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.5  12.0
C. Other Expenses                   2.2   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4  24.1   2.2   4.6   4.7   4           4.9   5.0  26.2
Total Recurrent Cast                     9.7  14.1  14.1  14.1  14.1  14.1  90.2   9.9  14.9  15.1  15.4  15.8  16.1  87.1
Total                                   233.8  43.1  30.7  30.7  14.1  14.1 366.5 240.9  45.1  32.6  33.5  15.8  16.1 384.2                                                                                           _
Sun Jun 05 14:57:05 1994
lb
OQ
>7 m
1
O   73
15-1 Litoni River Authority (Department of wator Resources)



trrigation Plhbbilitation and Modernization Project
Table 9. Applied Research (IRAL)
Detailed costs
(US$ '000)
Unit                             Base Cost                                           Totals Including Contingencies
Cost   1995      1996     1997      1998    1999    2000    Total   1995    1996           1997     1998     1999    2000    Total
X. Inve"tmnt Coats
A. Civil Works
1. Pmw Constzuction
Soil and Plant Prot.Lab (Sour)                          0.2     61.1         -         -        -        -        -    61.1    65.7          _         _        _        _        _    65.7
Greenhouses at Fanar                                            97.8         -         -    I            _              97.9   110.1         -    _             _        _        _   110.1
Subtotal fa. Construotion                                          159.0         -        -        -        -        -   159.0   175.9           -        -        -         -        -   175.9
2. Rehabilitation
Soil. Plant Prot., Irrigation Lab (Tell Amare)    0.1   195.6                -         -        -        -        -   195.6   210.3          -         -        -        -        -   210.3
Greenhouses                                                     24.5         -         -        -        -        -    24.S    26.3          -         -        -        -        -    26 3
Subtotal Pabilitation                                              220.1         -        -        220.1   220.1                                                                       -236.6
Subtotal Civil Works                                                  379.1         -         -        -        -        -   379.1   412.4          -         -        -        -        -   412.4
D. Laboratory Squipm.nt
1. Soil a F rtility
Soil Auger                                             11.9         -    11.9          -        -        -        -    11.9         -    12.4          -        -        -        -    12.4
Field Analysis                                         32.5         -    32.5          -        -        -        -    32.5         -    34.0          -        -        -        -    34.0
Sample Preparation                                     66.S         -    66.5          -        -        -        -    66.5         -    69.6          -        -        -        -    69.6
Soil Physics                                           28.5         -    28.5         -         -        -        -    28.5         -    29.8          -        -        -        -    29.8
Soil Chemical Analysis                                105.5         -   105.5         -         -        -        - 100.5           -   110.4          -        -        -        -   110.4
Computer                                                5.2    20.8          -        -         -        -        -    20.8    21.3          -         -        -        -        -    21.3
Subtotal Soil a Fertility                                           20.6   244.9          -        _        _          -  265.7    21.3   256.2           -         -        -        -   277.5
2. Plant Protection
Microscope micro-zoo                                    5.2         -    10.4          -                                10.4        -    10.9          -        -        -        -    10.9
Microscope                                              3.0         -      3.0         -        -        -        -      3.0        -      3.1         -        -        -        -      3.1
Microscope zoos-stereo                                  6.7         -      6.7         -        _        _        _      6.7        -      7.0         -        -        -        -      7.0
Analytical balance                                      4.7         -      4.7                      -                    4.7        -      4.9         -        -        -        -      4.9
Electronic balance                                      6.2         -      6.2        -        -         -        -      6.2        -      6.5         -        -        -        -      6.5
Th-rmohydrogroph                                        0.6         -      1.8         -        -        -               1.8        -      1.9         -        -        -        -      1.9                         c
Microt<s                                                 3.6        -      3.6         -        -        -        -      3.6        -      3.6         -        -        -        -      3.8
Generator microdistence water                           3.7         -      3.7         -        -        -        -      3.7        -      3.9         -        -        -        -      3.9
Light table                                             3.1         -      3.1        -         -        -        -      3.1        -      3.2         -        -        -        -      3.2
Incubator                                               1.3         -      2.6        -        -         -        -      2.6        -      2.7        -         -        -        -      2.7
Biological control                                     10.5         -    46.5          -        -        -        -    46.5         -    48.6          -        -        -        -    46.6
Computer                                                5.2     20.8         -         -        -        -        -    20.6    21.3          -         -        -        -        -    21.3
Subtotal Plant Proteotion                                           20.9     92.3         -        -        -        -   113.1      21.3     96.6         -         -        -        -   117.9
Subtotal Laboratory Equip_nt                                           41.6   337.2           -        -        -        -   378.8    42.6   352.8            -        -        -        -   395.3
C. Xrrigation Equipment
Agroclinatological Stations                                20.6         -    61.8         -        -        -         -    61.8         -    71.1         -         -        -        -    71.1
On-farm Irrig. Iprovuant                                 103.0        -   103.0          -        -        -         -   103.0         -   118.5         -         -        -        -   118.5
tubtotal Irrigation Equipmnt                                               -   164.6          -        -        -        -   164.8         -   189.6          -        -        -        -   189.6
D. Vbhiales and Macbinary
Saloon cars                                                15.0    10.0      30.0         -        -        -         -    45.0     15.4    31.4          -         -        -        -    46.7
Pick-up  x4 double cabin                                   20.0        -    20.0       40.0        -        -         -    60.0         -    20.9      42.8         -        -        -    63.7
Subtotal Vehiale. and Macbinery                                         10.0     00.0    40.0          -        -        -   105.0    15.4    52.3    42.8             -        -        -   110.4
Z. Pereonal Applied leleazc  (Traiig)
Local Training                                              1.8     12.6     25.2         -        -        -         -    37.7    12.9    26.3           -         -        -        -    39.2
Refresher courss                                            1.8        -         -        -    12.6    25.2           -    37.7         -        -        -    13.7    28.1           -    41.e
External Training                                           4.6        -      9.3       9.3      9.3      9.3      9.3    46.3          -      9.7      9.9     10.1    10.3    10.6    50.6
Subtotal Parsonal Applied R-aercb  (TrainIng)                           12.6     34.4      9.3    21.8    34.4         9.3   121.8    12.9    36.0         9.9    23.9    38.4        10.6   131.6
F. Technical Assitanc
Local Long-Term                                             2.0        -    49.0       96.0    96.0    48.0          -   2ee.0          -    50.2   102.6   104.9    53.6             -   311.4
Expatriates                                                12.4    24.8      24.e    24.8          -        -         -    74.4    25.4    25.9        26.5         -        -        -    77.9
Sbtotal Technical Asitanoe                                             24.8      72.6   120.8    96.0    48.0            -   362.4    20.4    76.2   129.2   104.9    03.6               -   389.2                       (0
Total Invtment Cost.                                                       473.0   659.2   170.1   117.8    62.4            9.3 1,011.8   500.6   706.9   161.8    128.8    92.0    10.6 1,628.7
II. Pctrrnt Coat.
A. 00  l.aboratory Equip_t                                                                                                                                                                                                    D
00   Lab. Equipent                                         2.4      7.2       7.2      7.2      7.2               7.2               7.4       7.5      7.7      7.9      8.0       8.2     46.7                      O   Z
1PM                                                         6.1   -16.3      18.3      18.3    18.3    18.3    18.3   109.6    19.7    19.1            19.6     20.0    20.4    20.9   2119.6                        -t
Subtotal 004 Laboratory Zquipmant                                      20.0      20.0     20.0    25.0    20.0    25.5   103.0    26.1    26.7    27.3    27.9    28.5    29.1   165.5 4
S. o00  Vehicle.
Saloon cars                                                 2.4    14.6      14.6    14.6    14.6    14.6         14.6    87.4    14.9    15.2         15.6    15.9      16.3    16.6    94.5                         W  al
C. 004 Building.
Buildings Maintenance                                       2.3      6.8      6.8       6.8      6.8      6.8      6.8     40.7      6.9       7.1      7.3      7.4      7.6      7.7    44.0
D. 04  oreenbousee
Miscellaneous                                               0.9        -    17.9    17.9    17.6    17.8    17.6    96.9                -     18.6     19.0     19.4    19.8    20.3 _797.1
Total RecuzTent Coat.                                                       4 6.9     64.6    64.6    64.6    64.6    64.6   370.0    40.0    67.6             69.1     70.6    72.2       73.8   401.2
Total                                                                       019.9   7 23 .9   234.7   162.5   147.0    73.9 1,881.9   006.6   774.0   250.9   199.4   164.2    64 .3 2,029.9



LE9A"NC6
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 10. On-farm Technology Testing and Extension
Detailed Coste
(US$ '000)
gas* Cost                                         Totals Including Contingencies
1995    1996    1991    1998    1999    2000    Total   1995    1996    1997    1998               1999    2000    Total
T. nvestment Cost.
A. Offie  equipent
Coeputers                                                    10.4        -        -        -         -        -    10.4    10.6          -        -        -        -        -    10.6
Extension Documentation and M terials                           -    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    50.0              -    10.5    10.7    10.9    11.2    11.4    54.7
lubtotal Offia equipent                                         10.4    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    60.4    10.6    10.5    10.7    10.9    11.2    11.4    65.3
D. Vehicles
Pickup 4xt Double Cabin                                      40.0        -        -        -        -         -    40.0    40.9          -        -       -         -        -    40.9
C. Extension Bervio  Training 03A
External courses                                              9.2      9.2        -        -        -         -    18.4       9.4     9.6         -        -        -        -    19.0
D. Technical Assistance
Expatriates - Progra;me preparation/monitoring                  -    24.6    12.4    12.4    12.4             -    62.0        -    25.9    13.3    13.5    13.8             -    66.6
Local Research end Development Experts                          -    15.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    15.0   120.0    1               15.7    32.1      32.9     33.5    17.1   131.2
ubtotal Technical Assistance                                        -    39.8    42.4    42.4    42.4    15.0   182.0              -    41.6    45.3    46.3    47.3         17.1   197.6
C. Technology Teoting and Etension
On-farm Technology Testing and  Extension Facility              -   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0 1,100.0               -   230.2   235.2   240.4   245.7   251.1 1.202.5
total Invetemt Costs                                                 59.6   279.0   272.4   272.4   272.4   245.0 1,400.8    61.0   291.9   291.2   297.7   304.2   279.6 1,525.6
Il. Sacurrent Co.te
A. Office Equipment                                               0.6        -        -        -        -        -      0.6      0.6        -        -        -        -        -      0.6
S. Vehicles
0 & I                                                         4.9      4.9      4.9      4.9      4.9      4.9    29.1        5.0     5.1       5.2      5.3     5.4       5.5    31.5
Total PRcurrent Costa                                                 5.4      4.9      4.9      4.9      4.9       4.9    29.7       5.6      5.1      5.2      5.3      5.4      5.5    32.1
Total                                                                 65.0   283.9   277.3   277.3   277.3   249.9 1.430.5    66.6   297.0   296.4   303.0   309.6   285.2 1,557.7
Sun Jun 05 14:56:24 1994                                                                                                                                                                                                      0O
0'
(D
9-1 On-farm Technology Testing and Extension



LEBANON
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Table 18. Quality Control
Detailed Coete
(US$ 000)
Base Cost                         Totals Including Contingencies
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total 1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
1. lne_tnt Costs
A. Laboratory (ARnL.)
i. Tecbnioal Aesietance   d Traifing
a. Qulity oontrol (inputs))
Expatriates                              12.4  12.4  12.4       -      -     -  37.2  12.7  13.0  13.3        -     -      -  38.9
Local                                     8.2   8.2   8.2   4.1       -      -  28.7   8.4   8.6   8.8   4.5        -      -  30.2
Overseas Training                         8.0  16.0   8.0          -         -  32.0   8.2  16.7   8.6        -     -      -  33.5
Subtotal Quality control (inputs))          28.6  36.6  28.6   4.1              -  97.9  29.3  38.3  30.6   4.5        -      - 102.6
2. Building Rehabilitation
Existing laboratories                       23.5      -      -     -      -     -  23.5  25.3       -      -     -      -     -  25.3
3. Equipient
a. Quality Cotrol Laboratory
Pesticides forwulationm                  97.9      -     -      -      -     -  97.9 110.2       -     -      -     -      - 110.2
Pesticides residue                       57.7      -     -      -      -     -  57.7  65.0       -     -      -     -      -  65.0
Chemical fertilizer analysis             82.4      -      -     -      -     -  82.4  92.8       -     -      -     -0        92.8
Subtotal Quality Control Laboratory        238.0      -      -     -      -     - 238.0 268.0       -     -      -      -     - 268.0
4. Office Equipent (conputer)                   20.0      -     -      -     -      -20.0  20.5        -      -     -      -     -  20.5
5. Vehicles
Pick-Up 4x4 Double Cabin                    40.0      -      -     -      -     -  40.0  40.9       -     -      _     _      _  40.9
Subtotal Laboratory (ARL                          350.1  36.6  28.6   4.1       -      - 419.4 383.9  38.3  30.6  4.5         --      457.3
B. Departent of Plant ProtcUtion OYO
1. office Equipsnt (Conputer)                   10.0     -      -     -      -      -  10.0  10.2             -        -            10.2
2. Vehicles
Pick-Up 4x4 Double Cabin                    40.0      -      -     -      -     -  40.0  40.9       -     -      -     -      -  40.9
3. Traini
Abroad                                       9.2   4.6   4.6       -      -     -  18.4  10.4   5.3 3    .4      -      -     -  21.1
Subtotal Deparment of Plant Protection  t)   59.2   4.6   4.6             -     -      -  68.4  61.5   5.3   5.4        -     -     -  72.2
Total Iovet-nt Costs                                  409.3  41.2  33.2   4.1        -     - 487.8 445.5  43.6  36.0   4.5         -     - 529.5
S1. Recurrent Costs
A. Deprt.nt of Plant Protection OM
1. OaW Vehicles
Pick-Up                                      4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9  29.1   5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.5  31.5
2. OcW Equipent
Office maintenance                            1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   7.0   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.3   7.6
Subtotal Departent of Plant Protction   t           6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0  36.1   6.2   6.3   6.4   6.6   6.7   6.9  39.1
1S. Laboratory (ARIL)
1. 0 * K Laboratories
Laboratory (product)                         2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4  14.4   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.7   2.7  15.6
Laboratory (inputs)                          2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4  14.4   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.7   2.7  15.6
8ubtotal 0 a N Laboratories                      4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.6  28.8   4.9   5.0   5.1   5.2   5.4   5.5  31.2
2. 0 t K Vehicles
Pick-Up                                      4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9  29.1   5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.5  31.5
3. Bluilding Yaintemance
Maintenance                                  4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7  28.0   4.8   4.9   5.0   5.1   5.2   5.3  30.3
Subtotal Laboratory (AfLf)                         14.3  14.3  14.3  14.3  14.3  14.3  85.9  14.7  15.0  15.3  15.6  16.0  16.3  92.9
Total Recurrent Costs                                  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3  20.3 122.0  20.8  21.3  21.7  22.2  22.7  23.2 132.0                                                                          (0
Total                                                  429.6  61.5  53.5  24.4  20.3  20.3 609.8 466.3  64.9  57.7  26.7  22.7  23.2 661.5
Sun Jun 05 14:57:21 1994                                                                                                                                                                                                >
(0
17-1 Ouality Control



LE3MX
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
table 14. Support to the Water Sector Implamntation Unit
Deatai-d C;o-t
(US$ '000)
Baey  Cost                       Totals Including Contingencies
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total 1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
I. zeyeteant Coeta
A. Offioe  quipmnt
Computer PC                                       5.2      -     -      -     -      -   5.2   5.3      -      -     -      -     -   5.3
Others                                            2.1      -     -      -     -      -   2.1   2.1      -      -     -      -     -   2.1
Sbtotal Offie Equipment                              7.3      -     -      -     -      -   7.3   7.4      -      -     -      -      -   7.4
S. Vehicles
4wd                                              25.8      -     -     -      -     -  25.9  26.4       -      -     -      -     -  26.4
C. Technieal Assistanca (Irrig Agronoaist SIU)  92.7  92.7          -      -     -      - 185 4  94 9  97.0       -     -      -      - 191.9
Total Znvestent Coot                                   125.7  92.7       -     -      -     - 218.4 128.7  97.0       -      -     -      - 225.7
S1.   nUant Coats
A. O&M Vehicles                                      3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.e  22.6   3.9   3.9   4.0   4.1   4.2   4.3  24.4
B. Other Expensea                                    2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2  13.2   2.2   2.3   2.3   2.t   2 4   2 5  14 2
Total PAaW=Mt Coats                                       6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0  35.7   6.1   6.2   6.4   6.5   6.7   6.8  38.7
Total                                                   131.7  98.7   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0 254.1 134.8 103.2   6.4   6.5   6.7   6.8 264.3
Sun Jun 05 14:56!52 1994
lb
OQ
13-1 Support to the Water Sector Implementation Unit



Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
rojeet Cost 3ymexy
I     I Total
(LL million)                     (US$ '000)           Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Coats
A. Drciation VebabiLitation
I.  rigatio   ubprojete
a. Quaseieh Rax  1 hin Scheme                                       2,550.0  12,118.1  14,668.1  1,364.0  6,482.2  7,846.3               83        13
b. Yamounoh                                                         2,315.2   9,195.8  11,511.0  1,238.4  4,919.1  6,157.5               80        10
c. Danniye Scheme                                                   1,626.6   7,571.2   9,197.8    870.1  4,050.0  4,920.1               82         8
d. Akkar E1 Bared  Scheme                                             607.5   2,821.5   3,429.0    325.0  1,509.3  1,934.2               82         3
*. South Bekaa Scheme                                               2,660.2  20,241.2  22,901.4  1,423.0 10,827.5 12,250.5               88        20
f. Small and Medium Irrigation Schemes                              4,684.6  22,375.2  27,059.8  2,505.9 11,969.0 14,474.9               83        24
gubtotal Irrigation  ubprojeota                                       14,444.0  74,323.1  88,767.1  7,726.4 39,757.0 47,483.5               84        78
2. Project Facilities including O06M Costs                             1,789.7   7,280.7   9,070.4    957.4  3,894.6  4,852.0               eo         8
subtotal Izrigation rAhbailitatios                                        16,233.7   1 ,603.8  97,837.5  8,683.8 43,651.7 52,335.4             83         86
D. Sn-titutieal strengt2aning
1. Irrigation and Water Ianage t
a. Irrigation Seryioe
Irrigation Services (HOHER)                                         42.7   2,471.8   2,514.4        22.8  1,322.2  1,345.0          g9          2
Department of Studies and Project (LRA)                             72.3   1,740.1   1,812.5         38.7    930.8    969.5          96         2
Green Plan (MOA)                                                    83.1   1,365.3   1,448.4        44.5    730.3    774.8           94          1
Regional Wate  Authorities and Water User Associations              97.8   1,208.2   1,306.0        52.3    646.3    698.6           93         1
Rubtotal Irrigation Serviees                                          295.9   6,785.5   7,081.4        158.3  3,629.7  3,788.0           96         6
b.  nvirouental monitoring
Hydrological Services (8838eR)                                      27.8      905.7      933.5       14.9    484.5    499.4          97          1
Department of Water Resorces (LRA)                                  80.4      604.7      685.1       43.0     323.5    366.5         8o          1
ubtotal Environental IitOci5g                                         108.2   1,510.4   1.618.7         57.9    808.0    865.9          93          1
Subtotal Xrrigation and Water MAfagtmt                                   404.1    8,295.9   8,700.0    216.2  4,437.7  4,653.8              95         8                                                                   1
2. Agricultural services
Applied Research  (ARrL)                                              340.6   3,177.4   3,517.9    182.2  1,699.6  1,981.8               90         3                                                                   0
OFTT-Extension                                                         15.5   2,658.7   2,674.3          8.3  1,422.2  1,430.5           99         2
Quality Control                                                        60.9   1,079.1   1,140.1         32.6    577.2    609.8           95         1
Subtotal Agrioultural Servioe                                           417.0    6,915.2   7,332.2    223.1  3,699.1  3,922.2              94         6
3. Project oplmentation
Support to Water S-ctor Implementation Unit                            28.8      446.3       475.1      15.4     238.7    254.1         94          -
"ubtotal Institutional Str ngtheng                                           850.0      657.   16,507.4    454.7  8,375.5  8,830.1             95         14
Sotal lAMD     COSTS                                                       17,083.7  97,261.2 114,344.9  9,138.4 52,027.1 61,165.6               85       100
Physical Contingencies                                                   1,550.9   7,488.6   9,039.5    829.6  4,005.8  4,835.4               83          8
Price Contingencies                                                      7,053.2  37,619.7  44,672.9    732.3  3,760.3  4,492.6               84         7
Total PRJCT COSTS                                                          25,687.8 142,369.5 168,057.3 10,700.3 59,793.2 70,493.6               85       115
Sun Jun 05 14:16:21 1994
F3>
(Dx
(D  X
_t
1-1 Project Co.x Sumary



Irrigation Rehabilitation and odernization Project
Daemditure Acc_to by C_aoeta - Dae Coots
(US$ '000)
Institutional Strength
Irrigation and Water Managemwnt
Irrigation Services
Irrigation Rehabilitation                                                                               Regional
Irrication  Suboroiects                                                                                       Water       rsniromantal Nonitorina
Small and   Project                     Department                  Authorities                    Department
Ouasieh                              Akkar 11    South         Medium   Facilities   Irrigatimn   of Studies                       and Water   Hydrological   of Water
Ras El                 Danniye        ared       Bekaa    Irrigation including    Services   and Project   Green Plan               User         Servie-s       Resorces
kin Scheme Yateounch       Scheme      Scheme       Scheme    Schemes   OaK Costs    ( nL)               JLJ            (IFA)     Associations   tleNE)    _(LJ
I. Xamet mt Coats
A. Civil Wrks
Irrigation                       6,400.3    S,710.0       4,463.7    1,724.6    7,187.9   13,449.9                 -             -              -              -             -              -              -
Buildings                           144.5       147.5        206.5        19.7        449.6                        _          31.6           31.6           31.6             -              _           31.6
Ahtotel CiVa   works                 6,546.8    5,857.5       4,670.1    1,744.2    7,637.7   13,449.9                -          31.8           31.6           31.6              _              _          31.6
E. *quiment
Irrigation                          916.6            -           -            -    4,lS8.2            -       621.4               -             -              -                            -              -
Laboratory                              -                                                                                                                                    -           46.6         118.1
Office                                  -            -            -           -           -       325.0        109.1          60.4           6S.4           16.6                         33.2           33.2
Agricultural                                                                                           -                  -              -              -             -                     -              -
Obtotal Ei   _ent                      916.8            -            -           -    4,156.2        325.0        730.5          68.4           68.4           16.6              -          79.8          151.3
C. Vehicles end Machinery                   -                                                -            -    1,728.2            S1.5          77.3          154.5              -          25.8           41.2
D. Teioil Aeist
Local                                   -            -           -            -           -           -            -             -              -              -         410.4            4.1           12.4
Internatinal                            -            -           -            -           -           -            -         242.4          634.1         149.2           60.4           99.5           49.7
utotal tS             Asitmo                -           -            -           -           -            -           -         242.4          634.1          149.2         470.8          103.6           62.2
S. Training                                 -           -            -           -           -            -           -          99.0           88.2           99.0         227.9              -              -
F. Studies                             364.6        300.0       250.0         90.0      4S4.6        700.0            -         603.0               -         207.2              -         257.2              -
Total n"Atmet Costs                     7,646.3      6,157.5     4,920.1    1,834.2   12,250.5   14,476.9    2,456.7              1,296.1          899.5         658.1          698.6          466.3         266.2
II. MOGw-mt Costs
A. O6K Vehicles                             -           -            -           -            -           -       793.9           45.2          67.7          112.9              -          16.8           45.2
B. O4  Buildings                           -           -            -           -           -            -       321.7              -           0.4                      -                     -             -
C. 04K Rquipment                            -           -            -           -           -            -    1,092.4             3.8           1.9            3.8
D. Puming costs                             -           -            -           -           -            -        40.0                     -              -              -                     -             -
3. Miscellaneous                            -           -            -           -           -            -       14S.3              -              -             -              -          14.3           35.1
towal RCZet Costo                               -            -           -            -           -            _    2.393.3           49.0           70.0          116.7              -          33.1          60.2
TOtal coSZ3   Wis                          7,846.3    6,157.5       4,920.1    1,834.2   12,250.5   14,474.9    4,652.0             1,345.0          969.5         774.8          698.6          499.4         366.5
Physical Contingencis                     727.9        511.6        405.9       138.9       653.1    2,171.2          62.1           40.4           10.4          22.3           22.6              -           1.6
PrioA  C=tiEgemi*s
Zalation
Local                                 481.1        397.9       255.6        108.7       411.1    1,176.1         448.4            7.4          13.9           17.1           24.5           5.8           15.9
Foreign                               475.3        274.7       218.2         94.4       559.7    1.328.4         316.6          77.3           45.1           41.5          43.9           16.5           12.9
Sotatal Tfastiem                        956.4        672.7       473.6        203.1       970.8    2,506.5         765.0           64.7           59.0          58.7           60.4          22.3           26.6
Devaluation                            -386.6       -323.9      -208.8        -88.1      -336.1      -891.4       -345.2           -5.9         -11.2          -13.5         -19.4           -4.6          -12.6
Subtotal Price Contingencies               569.8       346.7        265.0       115.0       634.7    1.615.1         419.8           78.7           47.9          45.2           48.9           17.6          16.2
total          WiTS         S              9,144.0    7.017.0    5,591.1    2,086.1   13,536.2   18,261.2    5,333.9                1,464.2        1,027.6          842.3         770.3          517.0         384.2
Taxes                                      228.3       200.1        1S9.1        59.6       259.4        510.2            -           1.0            1.0            1.0             -              -            1.0
Foreign Sxchang                         7,559.6    5,660.9       4,603.2    1,716.7   11,927.0   15,092.7    4,273.4              1,439.6          965.1         793.9          707.7         500.9          337.6
Sun Jun 05 14:16:28 1994
0
OQ
o F- 
21   p t o  X
2-1 Ienditur- Ascounts by Copents - DaeCosta



LEBANON
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
zpnditure Accounts by CGpents - base Coate
(USS '000)
*ning
Project
Implementation
Agricultural Services                  Support to
Applied                                       Water Sector                 Physical
Research                         Quelity      Implemntation              Contingencies
(AkIL)     OFTT-Extension    Control             Unit        Totel       I    Amount
I. Xnvot_nt Coate
A. Civil ocrks
Irrigatimn                                 -                -               -               - 38,936.4    10.7 4,165.8
Buildings                                  -                -            23.5               -  1,118.0       5.9    66.0
Subtotal Civ.i Works                           -               -            23.5                - 40,054.4    10.6 4,231.8
S. Equipeent
Irrigation                                 -            60.4                -               -  5,756.8       2.7   153.8
Laboratory                             635.6                -           238.0               -  1,038.3       3.5    36.6
Greenhouses                            122.3                -               -               -    122.3       9.0    11.0
Office                                     -                             30.0             7.3    691.0       7.1    46.7
Agricultural                           164.8                -               -               -    164.8    10.0    16.5
Subtotal Equipent                         922.7             60.4           268.0             7.3  7,773.2       3.4   266.7
C. Vehicles end Machinery                 105.0             40.0            80.0            25.8  2,329.2         -        -
0. Technioal Asistance
Local                                  288.0                -            28.7               -    743.7         -        -
Internetional                           74.4           182.0             69.2           185.4  1,746.3         _    I
ubtotal TSeical Aseistance                362.4            182.0            97.9           185.4  2,490.0         -        -
S. Training                               121.8          1,118.4            18.4                -  1,772.6      1.9    33.4
F. Studies                                    -                -               -               -  3,t46.5       8.8   303.5                                                                                     'D
Total Xnveft   t Conte                      1,511.8          1,400.8           487.8            218.4 57,865.8       6.4 4,835.4
UX. Recurrent Coltd
A. o.n Vehicles                            87.4             29.1            58.3            22.6  1,281.0         -        _
B. 04K Buildings                           40.7                -            28.0                -    390.8        -        -
C. 04M Equipent                           153.0              0.6            35.8                -  1,291.3        -        -
D. Pumping costs                               -               -               -                -     40.0        -        -
S. Miscellaneous                           88.9                -               -            13.2    296.7         -
Total Recrent cost.                            370.0            29.7           122.0             35.7  3,299.7        -        -
Total CAOI.M  OSTS                           1,881.8          1,430.5            609.8           254.1 61,165.6      7.9 4,835.4
Physical Contingencies                         40.3               -            26.8                -  4,835.4        -        -
Price CttingeAies
Inflation
Local                                     52.3              3.2            11.4             6.0  3,438.5         -        -
Foreign                                   97.8            126.5            22.6             8.9  3,760.3
Subtotal EXflatian                         150.1            129.7            34.0            14.9  7,198.8         -        -
Develuation                                -42.3             -2.5            -9.1             -4.8 -2,706.2        -        -
Subtotal Price Contingencies                  107.8           127.2            24.9             10.2  4,492.6      8.0   360.0
Total J3CS OD8TS                             2,029.9          1,557.7            661.5           264.3 70,493.6      7.4 5,195.4
Tases                                          12.4               -                -               -  1,433.3      9.6   137.3
Foreign Exchange                           1,832.2          1,548.7           626.3            247.6 59,793.2      7.2 4,303.3
01
aq
C, o
2-2 Expenditure Accounts by Coponents - base Coats



LEBANON
Irrigtion Rehabilitation and Moderni2ation Project
Mxpenditure Aoooqnmt by Comonants - Tota3l* Imoludia  Cott.ming oi.m
(US$ '000)
Institutional Strengthening
Irrigation and Water Management
Irrigation                Irrigation
Services                  Services
Irrigation  Rehabilitation                      Irrigation                 Department                 Regional                     Environmental
Irrigation Subprojects                     Rehabilitation  Irrigation        of                      Water      Environmental  Monitoring
Qu*smieh                       Akkar              Small and      Project        Services   Studies   Irrigation Authorities   Konitoring    Depart_ent                  Agr
Rxs E1                         El      South      Medium       Facilities    Irrigation      and       Services   and Water   Hydrological    of Water    Applied
Ain                Danniye Bared    B*kaa   Irrigation including O4M   Services   Project              Green          User         Services        xsorces    Research
Scheme  Yamouneh Scheme  Scheme   Schame   Schemes               Costs         (MOHER)      (LBA)    Plan  (?DA) Associations    (OHER)               (LR)        (AIL)
r. tn_et_ent Coat.
A. Civil Werks
Irrigation                     7,446.9   6,509.7 5,076.2 1,972.0  8,139.4   17,006.3                       -           -            -           -                                             -
Buildings                         161.8      161.3   225.9      21.6    508.5             -                -        34.2        34.0         34.0              -               -           34.0         -
subtotal Civil llork               7,608.6   6,671.0 5,302.1 1,993.6  8,647.8   17,006.3                      -        34.2         34.0        34.0              -               -            34.0
S. Equipment
Irrigation                     1,091.7           -        -        -  4,367.3             -           747.5                         -            -             -                       -           -
Laboratory                            -          -        -         -         -           -                -           -            -           -              -           47.7           120.9    671.3
Greenhousem                                     -              -         -          -     -                -            -           -           -                              -               -    136.4
Office                                      -             -         -         -       405.1            113.9        70.2        70.1         17.1              -            33.9           33.9          -
Agricultural                          -          -        -         -         -           -                -            -           -           -              -               -               -    189.6
Subtotal Equipmnt                  1,091.7           -        -        -  4,367.3        405.1            861.5        70.2         70.1        17.1              -            61.7           154.8    997.4
C. Vehicles and Machinery                -           -        -        -         -           -          1,822.9        52.7         79.1       161.7              -            26.4            42.2    110.4
D. Tehnical A.eistanoe
Local                                       -         -            -          -           -                -           -            -           -         433.8              4.3           13.3    311.4
International                         -          -        -        -          -           -                -       255.2       665.2        157.8          65.3           105.8            52.9      77.8              1
Subtotal Technical Aitance               -           -        -        -         -           -                -       255.2        665.2       157.8          499.1           110.1            66.2    389.2
E. Training                              -           -        -        -         -           -                -       106.1        103.7       103.7          271.2               -               -    131.6
P. Studies                           443.7      346.8   289.0      94.6    523.2         849.8                -       893.0            -       240.6              -           263.2               -         -
Total Ivestmnt Costs                   9,144.0   7,017.8 5,591.1 2,088.1 13,538.2   18,261.2                2,684.3    1,411.3         952.0        714.9         770.3           481.4           297.2  1,628.7
Xi. R     rt Coats
A. O0M Vehicles                         -           -        -        -         -           -            867.2        48.8         73.3       123.3              -            20.2            48.8      94.5
B. OOM Buildings                         -           -        -        -         -           -            354.3            -         0.4            -             _-                              -     44.0
C. O0M Equipmnt                          -           -       -         -         -           -          1,222.7         4.1          2.1         4.1              -               -               -    165.5
D. Pumping costs                         -           -        -        -         -           -             45.6                  -           -             -                      -               -         -
E. Miscellaneous                         -           -       -         -         -           -            159.8            -           -           -              -            15.5            38.2     97.1
Total Reourrent Coots                         -          -        -         -         -           -         2,649.5         53.0        75.7        127.4              _            35.6           87.1    401.2
Total PROJCT COSTS                      9,144.0   7,017.8 5,591.1 2,088.1 13,538.2   18,261.2                 5,333.9    1,464.2    1,027.8          842.3          770.3           517.0          384.2  2,029.9
Taxes                                   228.3       200.1   159.1    59.8    259.4          510.2                 -         1.0         1.0          1.0              -               -            1.0      12.4
Foreign Exchange                      7,559.6   5,600.9 4,603.2 1,716.7 11,927.0   15,092.7                4,273.4      1,439.6       985.1       793.9          707.7           500.9           337.6  1,832.2
Sun Jun 05 14:16:42 1994
OQ
Dl
0 0
-DD
m x
LI)-'
FMT (D  X
3-1 Expanditure Accounts by Coponents - Totals Including Contingencies



Lnfl
Irrigation Rehabilitation Ond trniZati0R Project
_         tema    A _mte by C_m_mto - Toal. 1 aludiag Cttiag_nis
(USS '000)
Project
Implementation
icultural Services         Support to
ater Sector
Quality Ippl_mtation
O     S-9Ktenslon Control     Unit        Total
I. hweaint cort
A. Clvil Wrks
Irrigation                                 -        -               - 46,150.4
Buildings                                  -    25.3                    1,240.4
oub*ttal C,tl  Paks                            -    25.3                - 47,390.7
. E       taimet
Irrigation                              65.3        -               -  6,271.S
Laboratory                                 -   260.0                 -  1,100.0
Greenhcse,                                 -        -                -    136.4
Office                                     -    30.7              7.4    782.4
Agricultural                               -        -                -    169.6
9Ubtot&1 3dyAt"t                           65.3   296.7               7.4  9,466.3
C. Vehicles  nd Machinery                  40.9    01.9             26.4  2,444.5
Local                                      -    30.2                -    793.0
Internatiomal                          197.0    72.4            191.9  1,342.0
utotal  TiAeul Asistance                  197.6   102.6            191.9  2,635.1
S. Training                             1,221.6    21.1                 -  1,959.9                                                                                                                        0
I. Studis                                      -       -                -  3,943.9 
total hv.e1t c.ts                            1,525.6   529.5           2252i.7 6,61.3
U.  _et Cas
A. OaK Vehicles                            31.5    63.0             24.4  1,395.1
D. OaK Suildinp                                -    30.3                -    429.0
C. 0a  9quipmant                           0.6    39.7                 -  1,437.6
D. Puming cato                                 -       -                -      45.6
I. Kiucellanacus                               -       -             14.2    324.6
Total   _      t etd                            32.1   132.0             38.7  3,632.2
TItel    I        c6T                         1,557 7   661.5            264.3 70,493.6
Taxes                                             -        -               -  1,433.3
For.ig  Sixchango                          1,548.7   626.3             247.6 59,793.2
0 1 
MM(b  X
3-2 Expanditur. Accounts by CenponentJ - Totals Including Contingencies



LRA
Itrigatian Rahbilitation and todernization Project
_amnmts by Tinoaaiara
(US$ '000)
The Government                                 Local
IBID           of Lebanon            Total          For.   (Excl. Dutios
Amount     I      Amount      I      Amount      I      Exch.   Taxes)  6 Taxes
A. 2rrigation llhabilitation
1. Irrigation Suberojoeta
a. Quasish Ras El Ain Scheme                                 7,622.3      63.4  1,521.7      16.6  9,144.0      13.0  7,559.6 1,356.2   226.3
b. Yamounoh                                                  5,663.6      81.0  1,334.2      19.0  7,017.5      10.0  5,600.9 1,216.7   200.1
c. Danniya Schema                                            4,530.6      61.0  1,060.4      19.0  5,591.1       7.9  4,603.2   82e.8   159.1
d. Akkar El Bared  Schema                                    1,689.4      60.9    398.7      19.1  2,008.1       3.0  1,716.7   311.6    59.6
a. South B-kaa Schema                                       11,808.7      87.2  1,729.6      12.6 13,538.2      19.2 11,927.0 1,351.8   259.4
f. Small and Medium Irrigation Schemes                      14,778.9      80.9  3,482.3      19.1 18,261.2      25.9 15,092.7 2.658.3   510.2
Subtotal Irrigation Subprojects                                 46,113.5     62.9  9,526.9      17.1 55,640.4      78.9 46,500.2 7,723.4 1,416.9
2. Project Facilities including O0M Costs                        2.6e4.3     50.3  2,649.5      49.7  5,333.9       7.6  4,273.4 1,060.5        -
ubtotal Irrigation Bebabiitation                                   48,797.8     80.0 12,176.4      20.0 60,974.3      86.5 50,773.5 6,783.9 1,416.9
D. institutional strengthening
L. Irrigation and Water I_magament
a. Irrigation Servioe
Irrigation Services (MOHER)                               1,404.4      95.9     59.8       4.1  1,464.2      2.1  1,439.6    23.6       1.0
Dopartment of Studies and Project (LRA)                     945.2      92.0     82.5       8.0  1,027.8       1.5    965.1    41.7      1.0
Green Plan (MOA)                                            708.1      64.1    134.2      15.9    642.3       1.2    793.9   47.4       1.0
Regional Water Authorities and Water User Associations    770.3    100.0           -         -    770.3       1.1    707.7    62.6
Subtotal Irrigation Service.                                 3,828.1      93.3    276.5       6.7  4,104.6       5.8  3,926.3   175.3      3.1
b.  nvirnental Mnitoring
Hydrological Services (MOHER)                               481.4      93.1     35.6       6.9    517.0       0.7    500.9    16.1
Department of Water Resorces (LRA)                          295.7      77.0     88.5      23.0    384.2       0.5    337.6    45.6      1.0
Subtotal Evironmntal Monitoring                                777.1      86.2    124.1      13.8    901.2       1.3    838.5    61.7      1.0
Subtotal Irrigation and Water Management                        4,605.2      92.0    400.6       8.0  5,005.8       7.1  4,764.8   236.9      4.1
2. Agrioultwral Service.
Applied Research (ARIL)                                      1,546.2      76.2    483.7      23.8  2,029.9       2.9  1,632.2   165.4    12.4                                                  "1
OFTT-Extension                                               1,525.6      97.9      32.1      2.1  1,557.7       2.2  1,548.7      9.0       -
Ouality Control                                                 524.5     79.3    137.0      20.7    661.5       0.9    626.3    35.2        -
Subtotal Agrioultural S1 rvices                                 3,596.3      84.6    652.9      1S.4  4,249.2       6.0  4,007.2   229.5    12.4
3. Projt I4lementation
Support to Water Sector Ieplmentetion Unit                      225.7     85.4     38.7      14.6    264.3       0.4    247.6    16.7        -
Total Diabur_mnt                                                    57,225.0      81.2 13,268.6      168. 70,493.6    100.0 59,793.2 9,267.0 1,433.3
Sun Jun 05 15:30:55 1994
2-1 C;cponents by Financier.



LEW"N
Irrigation ushabilitation and Modernization Project
_ditMA       Aooto by Finoieze
(US$ '000)
The GCevrAnent                                   Local
IDlD            of Lebanon             Total          ror.   (ICd.  Duties
Aerount     I      Amount      I       Amount      I       Rxch.   TaSxes)  A Taxes
X. Invstt Coete
A. Cil gke
Irrigatin                    316,920.3     80.0  9,230.1       20.0 46,150.4       65.5 37,370.0 7,387.9 1,384.5
buildings                       997.6      80.4    242.7       19.6  1,240.4        1.6  1.003.2   200.7    36.5
subtotal CiVi.l vm6e            37,917.9  *0.0  9,472.8           20.0 47,390.7       67.2 38,381.2 7,588.5 1,421.0
D. Equimt
Irrigation                    6,271.8    100.0          -         -  6,271.0        8.9  6,271.8        -        -
Laboratory                    1,052.6      95.0      55.2       5.0  1,108.0        1.6  1,043.6    56.1      6.3
Groenhouses                     109.1      60.0      27.3      20.0    136.4        0.2    104.6    27.7       4.1
Office                          701.4      69.6      61.0      10.4    702.4        1.1    782.4        -        -
Agricultural                    189.6    100.0          _         _    189.6        0.3    189.6        -        -
Iutotal  _aipint                 6,324.8      96.1    163.5        1.9  6,468.3       12.0  6,392.1    63.9    12.4
C. Vehicles and Machinery        2,444.5    100.0           -        -  2,444.5        3.5  2,444.5         -       -
D. Sec ioel Ameitamue
Local                           793.0    100.0          -         -    793.0        1.1    793.0        -        -
Internaticel                  1,642.0    100.0          -         -  1,42.0        2.6  1,U42.0
Subtotl t e     l 2  soetnee  2,635.1    100.0              -        -  2,635.1        3.7  2,635.1        -        -
S. Training                      1,956.0    100.0           -        -  1,559.0        2.6  1,862.9    96.0
F. Studies                       3.943.8    100.0           -        -  3,943.6        5.6  3,776.9   166.8         -
!otel  Stveet CDte                   57,225.0      65.6  9,636.3       14.4 66,061.3      94.6 57,492.7 7,935.3 1,433.3
SS. WAWXt  CW
A. O01 Vehicles                         -         -  1,395.1    100.0  1,395.1         2.0    991.6   403.3         -
B. oem Buildigs                         -         -    429.0    100.0    429.0         0.6    154.6   274.S         -
C. 041  tquigmt                         -         -  1,437.6    100.0  1,437.6         2.0    971.4   466.4         -
D. Vmping cets                          -         -     45.6    100.0       45.6       0.1      19.4    26.2        -                                                                                       %
C. Miscellaneou                         -         -    324.6    100.0    324.6         6.5    163.5   161.3         -0
total  _mxt Ceet_ -                                   - _  36322    10.6  3.62.2           5.2  2.300.5 1,331.7         -
tOtal  D.e_t                          57.225        61.2 13,266.6       16.8 70,493.6    100.0 59,793.2 9,267.0 1,433.3
Sir Jun OS IS131:1 1994
Dr P
0" O
mx
3-1 Eapenditwr  Aceemta by Fineciere



Irrigatie liabilitatimon and Molrniuztieb Project
1            _fuome  br 1hin~
The Go ,
",IO           of ebann             Total
1.  Perip                  ,777.7     n.0  3,011.1       u. 59,793.2      u.e
11.  Ieal (loci. Tomes)    447.3       4.8  8,011.7     ".2  3,267.0      13.1
III. Snse                       -        - 1433.3    I.0 1,4X31.           2.0
1.5.1 Pie.t                 1VH752        Er.2 13. 21.6     1. 70,433.0    100.0
_       I 0 11izil     191
~0
(' lb
m tD
4D X
4-1 Locai/loraiqn/TaZaS by Financier,



- 100 -
Annex 8
Table 1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Prolect
Summary of Proposed Procurment Arrangements
Project Element                            Procurement Method (US$ M)
ICa      LCB       OTHER         N.B.F.2         TOTAL
Civil Works                    27.2    18.0            1.0                          46.2
(21.7)   14.4)         (0.8)                        (36.9)
Buildings                                1.2                                         1.2
(1.0)                                       (1.0)
Equipment,  Machinery           6.5                    2.03                          8.5
(6.3)                 (2.0)                         (8.3)
Vehicles                        2.4                                                  2.4
(2.4)                                               (2.4)
TechnicaL Assistance                                   2.6'                          2.6
(2.6)                         (2.6)
Training                                              0.84                           0.8
________      (0.8)                          (0.8)
Studies Engineering                                   5.1'                           5.1
and supervision                      _                (5.1)                         (5.1)
IncrementaL Operating                                               3.6             3.6
Costs                     _
Total                          36.1    19.2          11.5           3.6             70.5
______ _____ _____ _____ (30.5)    (15.4)     (11.3)                        (57.2)
Mote: Totals may not add up due to roundings
/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
U Non-Bank financed (Government).
2/  IS (USS0.6 miltion), LS (USSO.4 milLion) and DC (USS1.0 miLLion).
J   Consultants and TA services recruited in accordance to Bank's ConsuLtant Guidelines.



-  101 -                                                     Annex  9
LEBANESE REPUBUC                                                    Table  1
TPANGTA.XLS                                    lon R hWtsIinn MoenMiallon PRoed
Technical Asaulac and Trining
ULnt        199        1996      1997       19        1999       2000 Tol
AFichnllam                               2          2         2
Foran                 sy              4         4          4         4                              16
Local Telrnig                          7        14                                                   21
Refresher Course       am                                             7         14                   21
Foreign Tralnng        am                        2          2         2          2         2         10
On Faon T.chroGoT Tng d Exdmul_n
A Technical ABN                                             1          1         1 
Foreign                am2                                  1115
Local                  am              6        12         12        12          e                   48
A Technical Aslianc2
Rural Engineef        um                    6                         e                             24
Irrlgatlon Enginee    am                                              6                             24
9. TraiIn
1. Oversees.
Senr Engier        am             1.6       1.6        1.6                                       4.5
EngIneer           un              1          13
Technicians        am               1
Eng                Sw             IS                   20                                        50
Technicians         NW              S         S          0                                        20
tWA and Water User MAodsou
A.Techinical AsksistnC
Forenl                 am                              I         I               1                    4
Locl                  nam             24        6o        120                                       204
S. Taining
1. OverseeamI                                               
Chief Enginr        am                                             1                               4
Engineem           am                         1         I          1         1
Technicans          am                        1          1          I         1                    4
Accountants         am                        1          1                                         2
2. Local
Engineer           am                         3         5          5         2                   Is
Techniclans         am                                   3 5       5          5                   20
Accountants         am                        2          3         3          2                   10
WUAtrining          ad                       20         30        30         30        20        130
WUA WorkshopS       unIt                      2          2         3          2          1        10
LRA   rotpw     Sd ofStui  md Roged
Civl Engineer          cy              1         1I         I        0.5                             35
wkgation Engineer       m             12        12                    3          3                   36
EL Tralirng
1. Oversee4
Senior Enginers     am            iA         1.5       1.5                                       4.5
Engineem           am              I          I         1                                         3
t echnickkns        am              I         I1 
2. Local
Sheme Enginers    SW                         10        20         20                             s0
Technicians         SW                                  10        10                              20
UR (Depar nd ofS hx  Wd PMJK
A.Technical Ass_                                 .2         e                                         2
Civil Engineer         am              6        12          6                                        24
llgatlon Enginer        m                       12          6         3                              27
. Tnnilng
1. overseas
Senior Engineer     am                       1.6       1.6        1.5                             4.5
Enotneen           am                         1                                                    3
TenIdank            am                        I                                                    3
2. Local
Engineems          NW                         5         6          5                             15
TEchniDans          SW                       10         10        10                              30
Sector knpMddion Uni
ATecIwicv Assisan                                                                                      12
igatlon Agriculluralist    am                6 
MHER    ~ lcaiseMAc5)
1. Fordgn
Hytod-gisgt        unam                      2          1         1                               4
En,Aron=n  ht    am                          2          I         1                               4
2. Locdl
Computer spectld   amn                       I                                                    1
UA IDeparwet d Waler PeourCeG
1. Frog
Hydrogeologht      am                        2          1         1                               4
2. LOCal
Computer spealt  am                          1          1         1                               3
AltL Lab-ortor
ATechnicak  A_ssIanc
Foreign              am              I          1         1                                          3
Local                 am              2         2          2
B. Traiin
Overss                am              2         4          2
MOA Dpummt d o Rnnt PrlChon)
EL Traning2
Mn:\Ieb n\rrlg\bufi'\trainta%                                   



- 102 -
Annex 9
Appendix 1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Prolect
Technical Assistance to the Irrigation Department
Irriaation Encineer
Terms of Reference
1.    The MHER requires the services of an experienced civil/irrigation
engineer to advise and assist the Chief of the Irrigation Department in
matters connected with the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
which is being considered for financing by the World bank.
2.    The candidate shall be a qualified civil engineer with a minimum of 15
years of experience of which a minimum of ten years would be in the design,
implementation and Operation and Maintenance of irrigation projects.
3.    The candidate will have a University Degree with a higher qualification
(M.Sc.or equivalent) in a related subject.
4.    Candidates must be fluent in English and French with a working knowledge
of Arabic.
5.    The irrigation engineer will be required:
(a)   to assist the Irrigation Department in preparation of terms of
reference for consulting services, review feasibility studies,
bidding documents, bid evaluation award, and in the subsequent
supervision during implementation.
(b)   to give advise and assistance with the establishment of the
operation and maintenance of schemes developed under the project.
(c)   to participate in discussions and meetings with the WSIUC attached
to the HER and visiting delegations from the financing agencies.
(d)   to travel in Lebanon to visit and supervise works on project sites
and to verify payment certificates prior to clearance by the Chief
of the Irrigation Department.
6.    The irrigation engineer will prepare a quarterly progress report which
he will discuss and clear with the Chief of the Irrigation Department and
WSIUC prior to submission to the project financing agencies.
7.    The candidate will be able to use computer facilities available in the
Irrigation Department.
8.    The period of engagement will be for 18 month.



- 103 -
Annex 9
Appendix 2
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Proiect (IRMP)
On-Farm Technolociy Testing and Extension Svecialist
Terms of Reference
In order to insure the attainment of its expected benefits, the IRMP
would finance demand-driven, private-sector-executed On-farm Technology
Testing and Extension (OFTT-Extension) services. These would be specific to
each subproject areas, but would encompass all agricultural activities
(irrigated and rainfed crop productions, including fruit trees, livestock, bee
keeping and silk production) in the area and would complement the existing,
private, supply-driven extension services. The incumbent should have a
University Degree with a higher qualification with at minimum of 10 years
experience in extension and on-farm technology testing and have some
experience in the implementation of internationally funded projects. The
specialist would be attached to the Extension Department of MOA for a period
of 4 years and would be based in Beirut. His responsibilities would include
the following:
(a) After becoming familiar with the schemes, as they come on-stream for
the rehabilitation of their irrigation infrastructure, the incumbent should
prepare an action plan and initiate the process of identifying suitable
consultants to design and implement the OFTT-Extension activities.
(b) For each of the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated by the
project, the OFTT-Extension specialist shall prepare detailed terms of
reference, indicating the contents of the global proposals and the yearly
action plans to be presented by the consultants to MOA.
(c) The specialist shall prepare the necessary documentation and
participate in the evaluation of the consultants global OFTT-Extension
proposals and of their yearly action plans.
(d) The incumbent shall be responsible for all aspects of supervision,
monitoring and evaluation of the performance of OFTT-Extension contractors. He
pay particular attention to their diligence in monitoring and analyzing
project impact indicators (as indicated in the SAR) related to agricultural
development.
(e) Provide MOA's Extension Supervision Group (ESG) with semestrial and
annual comprehensive evaluation reports on the performance of the OFTT-
Extension contractors and make recommendations on whether or not their
contracts should be renewed annually.



- 104 -
Annex 10
Table 1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT PLAN
USS million Percent of Expenditure
Cateaory                       Eauivalent  To be Financed
1. Civil Works                 34.27        80%
2. Goods                       10.49        100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for
items procured locally
3. Consultants' Services,
Training, Studies            8.18        100%
4. Unallocated                  4.29
Total                          57.23



- 105 -                          Annex 11
Page 1 of 25
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits
1.1         The primary benefits of the project would be the incremental
agricultural production resulting from increased water use efficiency in the
irrigation schemes through improved water delivery. Higher agricultural
productivity would also be achieved as a result of the adoption by farmers of
improved agricultural practices regarding irrigation as well as better use of
inputs in particular fertilizers and pesticides. Appendix 1 shows the
estimated incremental production for the most important crops. Quality of
agricultural production is also expected to increase allowing Lebanon to
regain gradually the expert market share, especially for citrus and
vegetables, enjoyed before the war. As a result of the increased agricultural
production, farmers' incomes are expected to increase significantly as shown
in Table 2. The typical small farmer's net income would increase within 8
years by 320 percent in Yammouneh, 34 percent in Quasmieh Ras Al Ain, 24
percent in Danniye, 52 percent in Akkar Bared, and 200 percent in South Bekka.
1.2         Overall project incremental production for major crops would be
substantial at full development (year 9 of the project) and would include
about 5,600 tons of wheat (+80 percent), 750 tons of pulses (+ 385 percent
because of very good prices and high demand), 20,100 tons of potatoes and
similar seasonal crops (+93 percent), 14,800 tons of summer vegetables
(represented by tomatoes in the models and made possible by increased
availability of water in the summer), 5,600 tons of mixed citrus fruit (+20
percent), 9,500 tons of apples (+8 percent) and 3,400 tons of bananas (+19
percent).
1.3         In total 21,200 farm families are expected to benefit from the
project. About 3,630 extended farm families (41,000 people) in Yammouneh,
1,200 families (8,000 people) in Quasmieh, 9,300 families (83,700 people) in
Danniye, 170 families (1,903 people) in Akkar and 6,900 land owners (41,340
people) in South Bekaa would benefit from the project. While within the
institutional strengthening component of the project some activities such as
training and extension are designed to meet only the needs of the farmers in
the project area, other support services, including applied research,
input/outp'ut quality control and import/export quality control, are expected
to benefit producers and exporters outside these project areas. A financial
analysis has been carried out to show the level of farm income for both the
without and with project situations.



- 106 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 25
B. Economic Analysis
1.4   A separate economic analysis has been carried out for each of the five
identified subprojects. The five economic analyses were subsequently
aggregated to obtain the result of the economic analysis for the currently
identified component of the entire project. The specific approach used in
each of the analyses is described in this annex as well as the general
assumptions. The analysis has been carried out over a 25-year period.
Cost Stream
1.5         The cost streams are based on the economic project costs as
calculated by COSTAB. This implies exclusion of taxes and price
contingencies. Civil works have been costed at likely contract prices.
Imported equipment has been costed at CIF prices, Considering that there are
no restrictions on the trade of goods and services, the Lebanses Pound is
freely convertible, and that domestic markets are generally free from price
distortions, no conversion factor has been applied to the investment cost
stream and the analysis has been carried out taking into account the official
exchange rate of US$ 1 - L.L. 1690. Since this project uses the program
approach, costs not directly related to the individual sub-project have been
excluded from the economic analysis for those sub-projects.   The aggregate
economic analysis includes the costs for the institutional strengthening
component proportional to the area covered by the identified schemes (63
percent). Costs related to the Green Plan are not taken into account, because
Green Plan will be involved only in the small and medium schemes program.
Component                                  COSTAB    Total US$   Allocated
Table        Cost        Cost
Irrigation Services (MOHER)                  17             1375         847
Studies and Projects (LRA)                   13              970         611
Green Plan (MOA)                             11              775           0
Regional Water and WUAs                      12              699         440
Hydrogeological Services (MOHER)             15              499         314
Department of Water Resources (LRA)          16              367         231
Applied Research (ARIL)                      9              1882        1185
Support for Extension                        10             1431         902
Quality Control                              18              610         384
Water Sector Implementation Unit             14              254         160



- 107 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 25
1.6         Annual recurrent costs include: incremental operation and
maintenance costs of the subprojects; and for the aggregate analysis
incremental operating costs of institutional strengthening components.
Replacement of vehicles and equipment has been provided at intervals of six
years during the project life.
Benefit Stream
1.7         The benefit streams of the economic analysis are based on the
aggregation at the farm level taking into account evolving cropping patterns
and adoption rates for each of the subprojects. The project benefits are
calculated by subtracting the without-project returns (which are assumed to
remain constant over time) from the with-project returns.
1.8         Prices. The analysis (Appendix 3) has been carried out in constant
1994 prices. The following are the basic principles on which the prices used
in the analysis are based:
(i)   Traded output crops have been priced on the basis of import parity
for wheat, bananas, and pulses for which Lebanon is a net
importer. Export parity prices have been taken into account for
oranges, potatoes and vegetables which account for a large share
of total Lebanon agricultural exports. These prices have been
brought to the point of first sale, i.e. at the farm gate.
Transportation costs have been included from the field to the
farm. Projected world market prices in constant 1994 terms for
wheat, bananas and oranges have been calculated from the Word Bank
Commodity Price Projections. For oranges, the economic price has
been derived from the Cif Paris, assumed to be the same as in Riad
which is considered the main market outlet for Lebanon produce. On
the assumption that only 55 percent of Lebanese orange production
would be suitable for export, the final economic price for oranges
is an average between the economic price (55 percent) of LP 718/kg
as derived from WB Commodity Price Projections and the farm gate
price to the local market (45 percent) of LP 300/kg. Based on the
above, a conversion factor of 1.7 has been used to convert oranges
farm gate prices into economic prices. The same conversion factor
has been applied to the financial prices of mandarins and other
citrus. For vegetables, mainly green beans, cucumbers and
potatoes, recent export parity prices have been used based on
indications given to the mission by the main Lebanese exporters.
For pulses, the import parity price has been used taking into
consideration the Cif Beirut price for import from Syria.
(ii) Other output crops, which are either not internationally traded or
for which no world market reference price was obtainable, i.e.
lettuce, onions, apricots, cereal straw and legumes, hay, have
been priced based on local financial prices.



- 108 -                            Annex 11
Page 4 of 25
(iii) Irriaation Water charges have been excluded from the economic
analysis as the schemes investment and O&M costs have already been
included in project costs. Since water savings in each of the sub-
projects are used to increased cropped areas or cropping
intensity, total irrigation water usage in the project areas does
not change with the implementation.
(iv) Labor. The economic wage rates were assumed to correspond to the
actual wage structure. There is virtually no structural
unemployment of labor forces in Lebanon and during harvest seasons
external laborers, mainly from Syria are employed. On this basis,
a conversion factor of 1 has been used for agricultural labor
wages.
(v)   Fertilizers have been priced at import parity taking into account
WB Commodity Price Projections for Urea, TSP and Potassium
Chloride.
(vi) The financial prices of other tradeable aaricultural inputs
(mechanization, seed, pesticides) are not subsidized and do not
differ significantly from their respective economic values and
have been used in the economic analysis.
1.9         The overall rate of return of the project is about 19 percent
Appendix 4). The project is expected to generate a net present value of
US$24.1 million discounted at the opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent.
At Yamouneh, the cropping pattern would increase from 75 percent to 109
percent. The economic rate of return would be 31 percent.  At Ouasmieh,
cropping intensity of high value crops will increase from 1551 to 203 percent;
the economic rate of return would be 23 percent. In the case of Dannive there
will be no changes in cropping intensities of fruit trees,increase in yields
will result in an economic rate of return of 20 percent. At Akkar EL Bared,
cropping intensities would increase from 104 to 150 percent, the economic rate
of return would be 24 percent. The South Bekaa project will have the more
sophisticated irrigation system resulting in the he highest cost per ha. The
economic rate of return will be achieved by a large increase in cropping
intensity, from 57 percent to 115 percent the rate of return would be 16. The
small and medium schemes selected from the 28 already identified would have a
minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent. Tentative estimates of the ERR
from the information available in the RAI shows an average rate of return of
the 28 schemes would be about 40 percent.



- 109 -
Annex 11
Page 5 of 25
1.10        The results of the economic analysis are summarized below:
Table : Results of the Economic Analysis Per Scheme
Scheme      Economic    Share of    Gross Economic             Cropping
Rate of     total        area  costs               Intensity
Return      financial   (ha)  per ha
costs (%)          (US$)       PYl   PY8   Chng.
Yammouneh   30           10            5,600  1,603       75   109   +45%
Quasmieh    23           13            3,800  1,875      151   203   +34%
Danniye     20            8            5,000  1,190      n.al  n.a.  n.a.
Akkar       24            3              800  2,628      104   150   +44%
South Bekaa 16           20            2,000  6,592      57    115   +102%
Small and
Medium
Schemes     12           23           10,000             n.a2  n.a.  n.a
Other                    23
overall     19
Total                    100          27,200
Sensitivity Analysis
1.11        The sensitivity analysis, indicates that economic rate of returns
to the project and for the subprojects, have been found to be quite resistant
to wide-ranging deviations from the base case assumptions. The switching
value analysis for the project as a whole shows that it would take a 35
percent decrease in benefits or a 70 percent increase in costs to lower the
economic rate of return to 12 percent. A 30 percent decrease in benefits
would reduce the overall rate of return to 13 percent. A 30 percent increase
in costs would decrease the rate of return to 14 percent. A two-year delay in
benefits would lower the rate of return to 14 percent. However the farm
j/ Tree crops
2/Not yet available



- 110 -
annex 11
Page 6 of 25
budget analysis has been conservative in assuming that in most of the schemes,
the first benefits would occur only in year four. The risk of such a lag is
therefore considered limited.
C. Proiect Risks
1.12        Project risks are mainly associated with delays in construction,
institutional building and capacities, socioeconomic and environmental. As in
all construction works contracts, the principal risks concern increased costs
and delayed benefits. The risk that physical component will be delayed is
small as most rehabilitation design work is already substantially completed.
The project has been well prepared and the availability of detailed designs
and tender documents by project effectiveness, the use of reputable
contractors and the high standard of construction supervision to be provided
by the MOHER's WSIU, assisted by reputable consultants, will make it possible
to proceed smoothly with project implementation. Moreover, as indicated in
the sensitivity analysis (see para. 7.07), cost overruns and time delays in
project implementation will not have a major negative effect on the economic
viability of the project.
1.13        Full realization and sustainability of estimated benefits is also
dependent upon successful implementation of the water management program
proposed with complementary establishment of strong institutional support and
effective agricultural extension. Given the history of excessive water use in
the project areas, enforcement of operation rules for optimal water use will
require considerable effort by the GOL. Any serious failure in this regard
could cause a significant water shortage, particularly at the extremities of
the irrigation system, thereby causing benefit reduction. The project has
attempted to mitigate these problems by proposing a strong water management
program and by seeking GOL strengthening of LRA and RWA with enforcement
authority.
1.14        Both the size and complexity of the proposed project appear to be
within the capacity of the public agencies involved. The project will benefit
from the implementation capacity of CDR and MOHER which has been greatly
improved under the ERRP by the establishment of the PMU and the WSIU. The
sustainability of the development impact of the project will depend on the
success of the on-going restructuring of water management institutions,
initiated under the ERRP. The institutional strengthening of the project
would alleviate this risk by providing technical assistance and training to
the new institutions in the irrigation sector.



- 111 -
Annex 11
Page 7 of 25
LEBANON - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Present and Future CropDing Patterns and Yields
Table 1 - Page 1 of 3
YAMMOUNEH                        Quasmieh Ras El Ain
Without/P       With/P       Yield    Without/P        With/P        Yield
change                                 Change
Major Crops    Area   Yield   Area  Yield         %    Area   Yield  Area   Yield        %
ha     t/ha    ha      t/ha            ha      t/ha   ha      t/ha
Wheat             3,025   1.8    2,210 3.5!/   +94         -       -       _       _       =
Pulses              160   1.2    1,695  1.8!a   +50        -       -       _       _       _
Vegetables          290   20        980   20      0        -       -       _       _       _
(Mikti rep.)
Potatoes            520   20        880 25.5    +27.5    -         -       _       _       _
Watermelons         -       -       -       -       -      500   20        660    22.0  +10
Total cropped    3,995            5,765                    500             660
area
Fallow            1,300                      _              _              _
Area cultivable  5,295            5,295                    330             325
to annual crops
Cropping           75%            109%                    152%            203%
intensity
Fruit trees         305   20        305   20      0        -       -       -       -       -
(+grapes)                                                                               _
Citrus              _       _       _       _      _    2,325   12    2,325    14.4  +20
Citrus/bananas      _       _       _       _      _       370 10/8.Sk   220 12/9.4k/ +20
Bananas             =       _       =      _       =       825   18        980    19.8  +10
Total             5,600     _       _       _       _    3,850
cultivable area
a/ with adequate supplemental irrigation
S citrus 10 t/ha/bananas 8.5 t/ha



Annex 11
- 112 -                        Page 8 of 25
LEBANON - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Proiect
Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
Table 1 - Page 2 of 3
Dannieh                               Akkar
Without/P       With/P      Yield    Without/P         With/P     Yield
change                                Chang
Major Crops       Area   Yield  Area   Yield    %    Area   Yield  Area   Yield  e %
ha     t/ha   ha      t/ha           ha      t/ha   ha       t/ha
Wheat                                .                        35      3      40       3      0
Lettuce                                                       52     40      58      40      0
Melon                                                         0      15      100     15      0
Okra                                                          33      3      37       3      0
Potatoes                                                      79     30      89      30      0
Total cropped                                                199    324
area
Fallow
Area cultivable                                              192    2163           =_l
Cropping Intensity                     =      =             104%   150%                   _
Apples                   4      38      2     41      +8
Prunes                  2      40       2     52    +30
Apricots                2       40      2     47    +18                               _
Pears                   2       36      2     42    +17                                     =
Peaches                 2      30       2     35    +17
Citrus                                                       142     15      160     18    +20
Total                  4800           4800                   334             376
cultivable area
3/ 216 = 192 cultivable in the without +24 ha from the 42ha occupied by military (which also contain 18 ha of
citris).
4/ Fruit trees are grown in mixtures and not in pure stands, therefore particular species do not occupy specific areas.



Annex 11
- 113 -                       Page 9 of 25
LEBANON - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Prolect
Present and Future CroRRing Patterns and Yields
Table 1 - Page 3 of 3
South Bekaa
Without/P       With/P     Yield   Without/P         With/P    Yield
change                               Chang
Major Crops       Area   Yield  Area  Yield c         Area   Yield  Area   Yield eCa
ha     t/ha   ha    t/ha            ha     t/ha   ha       t/ha
Wheat                  331    4.5    467   5.3    +18
Broad beans                          133   11.5   +15   _
Potatoes               387    23    600    26    +13             _
Sugar Beets                           67    73                   __
Vegetables             156    30    465    37    +23
(tomatoes)
Watermelon             46      30    134    36    +20                                        l
Total cropped          920           1866
area
Fallow                 702            0
Area cultivable       1622           1622                                                 =
Cropping Intensity    57% |        | 115% |                                              =
Apples
Prunes
Apricots             _                                   r__
Pears
Peaches
Citrus
Total                 4800           1622
cultivable area



- 114 -                            Annex 11
Page 10 of 25
LEBANON - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Proiect
Present and Future Estimated Farm Income in the Subproject Area
Farm Incomes
Table 2 - Page 1 of 2
Farm Size                   Yammouneh              Quasmish Rao-El Ain
Change
Without/P      With/P       Without/P       With/P
LL            LL            LL
Small -.0.85ha        863,876      3,637,350                                  +321%
($51l)5      ($2,152)
Medium - 1.55 ha   1,415,497    6,510,250                                     +360%
($838)       ($3,852)
Large - 50 ha       45,066,000   130,650,000                                  +190%
($26,666)     ($77,307)
Small - 1.2  ha                                  5,271,770    7,088,440        +34
Canal-west                                        ($3,119)      ($4,194)
Small - 1.2  ha                                  4,968,870    6,809,340        +37
(2,940)      ($4,029)
Small, Forage                                    4,156,170
($2,459)
Medium - 9.2 ha                                  17,928,240   27,277,840       +52
Canal-west                                       ($10,608)    ($16,141)
Medium - 9.2 ha                                  16,030,340   25,622,190       +60
Canal-west                                        ($9,485)     ($15,161)
Medium - 9.2 ha                                  11,072,640
Forage                                            ($6,552)
==
5/at excbanRe rate USS= 1 690LI



- 115 -                          Annex 11
Page 11 of 25
LEBANON - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Proiect
Present and Future Estimated Farm Income in the Suboroiect Area
Farm Incomes
Table 2  - Page 2 of 2
Farm Size                 Danniye               Akkar El Bared
Without/P     With/P     Without/P     With/P      Change
LL          LL           LL           LL
Small -0.5 ha      3,039,750   3,770,875                                +24
($1,799)    ($2,231)
Medium -2.3 ha    15,561,800  17,722,535                                +14
l________________   ($9,208)    ($10,487))
Large - 4 ha      29,300,000  31,495,000                                +8
($17,337)    ($18,636)
Small - 1 ha                                3,369,026   5,123,472       +52
l _________________            ____________   ($1,994)     ($3,032)
Medium - 3 ha                               10,113,596  15,546,582    +54
l__________   (5,984)      ($9,199)
Large - 5 ha                                16,752,180  25,739,862      +54
($9,913)    ($15,231)



- 1C) -                             Annex 11
Page 12 of 25
LEBANON - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Proiect
Present and Future Estimated Farm Income in the Subgroiect Area
Farm Incomes
Table 2 - Page 3 of 3
Farm Size                 South Bekaa
Change
Without/P      With/P
LL           LL__ _         _ _
Small - 3.7 ha      8,056,539   24,200,982   200
($4,767)    ($14,320)
Medium - 15.4 ha  33,532,620  100,728,412  200
($19,842)    ($59,602)
Large -  32.4 ha  70,549,149  211,922,115  200
($41,745)   ($125,398)



LEBANON
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Table 3: CURRENT AND EXPECTED WITH PROJECT WATER CHARGES
Yammouneh                QuashmiehlR.E.A.                 Danniye                  Akckar (Aar"a)                South Bekaa
__________  Current               With /PI   Current          With/PI    Current          With/P'    Current          With/PI    Current            With/P'
Water charges
LL/ha/crop
Al cr              35,000         80,000      420,0002       420,0002    50,0002          140,0002    200,000        60,000       1ILIJm3         99 LIJ3
Spring crops      60,000           na                        -            -              -            -              -            -
Sunmer crops   125,000           575,0003
Value of
Water Charges
as % of prod.
cost of on
hectares of                                                                                                                                                      -
main crops       wheat: 9 %      9%          citru: 27 %     16%          apples:        2.2%         potatoes:      2.3%         whet: 20 %       14.5%
0.9%                        8%
potatoe:       7%          bananas: 8 %    7%           pears:0.8 %     1.8%        citrus:12.7%   2.5%         tomatoe:6.2%    3.81%
19.9%4
Value of water
charges as %
of small farm
net incoome
(SFN1)           2.6%            2.0%        9.8%            7.0%         0.8%           7.9%         6.2%            1.8%        18.6%6           11.3%
1/ Wth project cost of water will be based on real O&M cost and invetmeat and i5 likely to be lightly different from the figures indicated in this table that will apply in PYI.
21 Per hectare per year flat rate.
3/ At 572,000 LL/ha - half the cot" of pumped water + 1/2 of 1,000 LL.
4/ On the basis of water pumped from private wells at a coat of 1,020,000 LL/ha/crop. 
5/ Calculates as: water charge per sason x crocting intensity x farm size x 100. 
net small farm income                                                                                                                
6/ Calculated as: 6500 n3ha x crotmine intensity x price of m3 of water x farm size                                                                                 >
net wmal farm income.
0 rD
N,-h



- 118 -
Lebanon                                                Annex  1 1
IrrigatlonRehabllation and Modemization Project                 Page  14  of  25
Agricultural Production                                      Appendix  2
PRODUCTION, In kg                                       Wlthout         At Full          %
Unit         Project     Development    Increase
QUASMIEH
cucumber                                 kg             3,753,000      6,004,800         60.0%
water melon                              kg             5,004,000      7,339,200         46.7%
banana                                   kg            17,961,600     21,377,510         19.0%
oranges                                  kg            27,900,000     33.480,000         20.0%
mandarines                               kg             7,440,000      8,928,000         20.0%
cdtrus (various)                         kg             3.720,000      2,604,000        -30.0%
YAMMOUNE
wheat                                    kg             5,445,000      9,625,000         76.8%
dry bean                                 kg              315,000              0        -100.0%
lentil                                   kg               194,400       942,600         384.9%
green beans                              kg              570,000       7,150,000       1154.4%
potatoes (lte)                           kg            10,400,000     20.485,250         97.0%
onions                                   kg             1,140,000      4.180,000        266.7%
apricots                                 kg             5,050,000      5,050,000          0.0%
grapes                                   kg              270,000        270,000           0.0%
cereal straw                             kg             5,445,000      9,625,000         76.8%
legumes hay                              kg              254,700        471,300          85.0%
Akkar-Bared
Citrus                                   kg             2.127,300      2,872.800         35.0%
Potatoes                                 kg             2,374,200      2,672,100         12.5%
Okra                                     kg               95,040        106.980          12.6%
Melon                                    kg                    0       1,500,900           n.a.
Wheat                                    kg               104,910        120,930         15.3%
Lettuce                                  kg              257,850        290,200          12.5%
Danniye
Prunes                                   kg            15,000,000     19,500,000         30.0%
Apricots                                 kg            15,000,000     17,625,000         17.5%
Pears                                    kg            16,146,000     18,837,000         16.7%
Peaches                                  kg            13,455,000     15,698,000         16.7%
Apples                                   kg           119,700,000    129,150,000          7.9%
South Bekaa
Wheat                                    kg             1,489,500      2,888,160         93.9%
Broad Beans                              kg                    0       1,828,800           n.a.
Potatoes                                 kg             8,901,000     18,578,600        108.7%
Sugarbeets                               kg                    0       5,776,200           n.a.
Tomato                                   kg             4,680,000     19.456,400        315.7%
Water Melon                              kg             1,380,000      5.563,200        303.1%
Total
Apples                                   kg           119,700,000    129.150.000          7.9%
apricots                                 kg            20,050,000     22,675,000         13.1%
Banana                                   kg            17,961,600     21,377,510         19.0%
Beans                                    kg              885,000       8,978,800        914.6%
cereal straw                             kg             5,445,000      9,625,000         76.8%
Citrus (various)                         kg             5,847,300      5,476.800         -6.3%
Cucumber                                 kg             3,753,000      6,004,800         60.0%
grapes                                   kg              270.000        270,000           0.0%
legumes hay                              kg              254,700        471,300          85.0%
Lentil                                   kg               194,400       942.600         384.9%
Lettuce                                  kg              257,850        290,200          12.5%
Mandarines                               kg             7,440,000      8,928,000         20.0%
Okra                                     kg               95,040        106,980          12.6%
Onions                                   kg             1,140,000      4,180,000        266.7%
Oranges                                  kg            27,900,000     33,480,000         20.0%
Peaches                                  kg            13,455,000     15,698,000         16.7%
Pears                                    kg            16,146.000     18,837,000         16.7%
Pottes                                   kg            21,675,200     41,735,950         92.6%
Prunes                                   kg            15,000,000     19,500,000         30.0%
Sugarbeets                               kg                    0       5,776,200           n.a.
Tomato                                   kg             4,680,000     19,456,400        315.7%
Water Melon                              kg             6,384,000     14,403,300        125.6%
Wheat                                    kg             7,039,410     12,634,090         79.5%



- 119 -
Annex 11
LebarnonPae 1 of2
Irrgation RehabilKatbon and Modemiztion Project                      Page      15  of  25
Pnce                                                        Appendix  3
Page 1 of 3
FINANCIAL PRICES and ECONOMIC PRICES                      1994 to 2023
(In Lebanese Pound)
Unit       Financial  Factor EIF    Economic
Outputs
Grain
wheat                             kg              300         1.20         360
chickpea                          kg              700         0.80         560
dry bean                          kg              900         0.80         720
lentt                             kg             1,200        0.80         960
Vegeabbles
cucumber                          kg              400         1.07         428
green beans                       kg              600         1.07         642
water melon                       kg              250         1.00         250
cweet melon                       kg              400         1.00         400
ettuce                            kg              125         1.00         125
potatoer (late)                   kg              450         1.06         477
potatoes (early)                  kg              325         1.06         345
onions                            kg              300         1.00         300
Fruis
apncots                           kg              360         1.00         360
grapes                            kg              400         1.00         400
banana                            kg             1,000        0.80         800
oranges                           kg              300         1.71         513
mandannes                         kg              500         1.71         855
citrus (various)                  kg              300         1.71         513
straw & forage
cereal straw                      kg              100         1.00         100
legumes hay                       kg              200         1.00         200
Inputs
Seed & plants
cucumber hybrid                   kg           60,000         1.00      60,000
seed water melon                  kg           40,800         1.00      40,800
melon seed                        kg           105,000        1.00      105.000
seed potatoes                     kg              950         1.00         950
tobacco seedlings                 u                 5         1.00           5
lettuce seed                      kg          170,000         1.00      170,000
onions seed                       kg           50.000         1.00      50,000
green beans seed                 kgWu           11,000        1.00       11,000
citrus plant grafted              u             3,000         1.00       3.000
Fartll2zr & pestcides
NPK 17-17-17                      kg              500         0.66         330
NPK + microelements               kg             1,360        0.66         897
TSP                               kg              230         0.66         151
compost fertilizer (N)            kg              250         1.00         250
nitrateofpotash                   kg             1,020        0.83         847
urea                              kg              400         0.66         264
organic manure (poultry)          kg               25         1.00          25
organic manure (in the field)     kg              135         1.00         135
ammonium nitrate                  kg              210         0.66         139
soluble fert. (18-3.6-36)         kg           3,187.5        1.00       3.188
systemic insecticide               I           51,0D0         1.00      51.000
fongicide                         kg            85,0l0        1.00       85,000
herbticde                         1            52.000         1.00      52,000
grammoxone                         1            6,800         1.00       6,800
mechanization
tractor use (ploughing)          hour          30,000         1.00       30,000
tractor use (harrowing)          hour           15,000        1.00       15,000
combine harvesting               hour          35,000         1.00       35,000
tractor use (transport)          hour           10.000        1.00       10,000
Various
water charge(ORA-gravity)      forfit/rha     420,000         0.00           0
water charge(ORA-pumping)       orfait/ha      340.000        0.00           0
water charge(ORA-average)      foraftha        380,000        0.00           0
water charge Yammoune        forfat irg/ha      20,000        0.00           0
undergr. water pumping (Qasmieh)  m,3              95         1 00          95
pumping from canal (Oasmieh)     m3             23.75         1.00          24
water needs                       m3                -            -           0
undergr. water pumping (Yammou   m3               170         1.00         170
piastic bags (1 kg=40)            kg            2,550         1.00       2,550
stoage bags                       u               400         1.00         400
Labor
family labor                     manrday                           -       12,000
spraying fee                        ha           25.000         1.00      25.000
ordinary male                    manfday          12,000        1.00      12,000
ordinary female                  man/day           6.000        1.00        6,000
specialized                      man/day         20,000         1.00       20,000
hour rate                        man/hour         2,000         1.00        2,000
harvesting                         crate           1,000        1.00        1,000



-  120 -                                                 Annex  11
Page  16 of 25
Appendix 3
Page  2 of 3
Economic Prices - Oranges                         1994      1995      2000     2005
Cif Paris-Riad (in 1990 constant USS/MT)           420       439       435      430
Transport Riad-Beirut (in 1990 constant USS/MT)     -20      -20       -20       -20
Fob Beirut (export parity price) USS/MT            400       419       415      410
MUVIndex(1994/1990)                                 108      108       108       108
In 1994 Constant USS/MT                            432       453       448      443
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant LP/kg                   734      769       762       753
Local Transport and Handling                        -34      -34       -34       -34
Value in Store Producing Area                       700      735       728       719
Collection and Losses (5%)                          -35      -37       -36       -36
Economic Value Farm Gate                            665      699       692       683
Economic Value Export Quality (55% of Economic)     366      384       380       376
Economic Value 2nd Grade (45% of Financial)         135      135       135       135
Average Economic Value at Farrngate                501       519       515      511
Financial Price Farmgate                           300       300       300      300
Conversion Factor                                  1.67      1.73      1.72     1.70
Average Conversion Factor   1.71
Economic Prices - Wheat                            1994     1995      2000      2005
World Market (in 1990 constant USS/MT)              172      149       166       137
MUJVlndex(1994/1990)                                108      108       108       108
In 1993 Constant USS/MT                             186      161       179       148
Freight Insurance and Storage                        35       35        35        35
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant US$/MT                  221      196       214       183
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant LP/kg                   375      333       364       311
Local Transport and Handling                         34       34        34        34
Value in Store Producing Area                       409      367       398       345
Collection and Losses (5%)                          -20      -18       -20       -17
Economic Value Farm Gate                           389       349       378      328
Financial Price Farmgate                           300       300       300      300
Conversion Factor                                  1.30      1.16      1.26     1.09
Average Conversion Factor   1.20
Economic Prices - Bananas                          1994     1995      2000      2005
World Market (in 1990 constant USS/MT)              406      413       409       401
MUVIndex(1994/1990)                                 108      108       108       108
In 1994 Constant USS/MT                             438      446       442       433
Freight Insurance and Storage                        35       35        35        35
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant USS/MT                  473      481       477       468
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant LP/kg                   805      818       810       796
Local Transport and Handling                         34       34        34        34
Value in Store Producing Area                       839      852       844       830
Collection and Losses (5%)                          -42       43       -42       -41
Economic Value Farm Gate                           797       809       802      788
Financial Price Farmgate                          1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000
Conversion Factor                                  0.80      0.81     0.80      0.79
Average Conversion Factor   0.80



Lebanese Republic
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Economic Prices - Fertilizer           1994   1995   2000   2005   1994   1995   2000   2005   1994   1995   2000   2005
Urea                         TSP                    Potassium Chloride
World Market (in 1990 constant US$/MT    97    123    144    140    103    116    125    121    101    104    107    103
MUV Index (1994/1990)                   108    108    108    108    108    108    108    108    108    108    108    108
In 1994 ConstantUS$/MT                  105    133    156    151    111    125    135    131    109    112    116    111
Freight lnsurance and Storage            35      35     35      35     35      35     35      35     35      35     35      35
CifBeirut in 1994 Constant US$/MT       140    168    191    186    146    160    170    166    144    147    151    146
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant LP/kg       238    285    324    317    249    272    289    282    245    250    256    249
Local Transport and Handling             34      34     34      34     34      34     34      34     34      34     34      34
Value in Store Producing Area           272    319    358    351    283    306    323    316    279    284    290    283
Nutrient Content                       46%    46%    46%    46%    40%    40%    40%    40%    60%    60%    60%    60%
Economic Price, 100% nutrient content   590    694    778    762    707    766    808    789    465    474    483    471
Economic Price, 17% nutrient content    100    118    132    130    120    130    137    134         79      81     82      80
Economic Price of 17-17-17              300    329    352    344
Farm Gate Price of 17-17-17             500    500    500    500
Conversion Factor                      0.60   0.66   0.70   0.69
Average_Conversion Factor   0.66                                                    ______________
Economic Prices                     Potatoes        Pulses         Vegetables
In Constant 1994 US$/MT                 315            325            350
Cif Beirut in 1994 Constant LP/kg       536            553            595
Local Transport and Handling            -34             34            -34
Value in Store Producing Area           502            587            561
Collection and Losses (5%)              -25             -29           -28
Economic Value Farmgate                 476            557            533
Financial Price Farmgate (late)         450            700            500                                                                           0 
X >_ :>
Conversion Factor   1.06          0.80            1.07                                                                    L       : 
o D 0 x
0 x @ 



A..Ipk                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRO-COST0I.
S0- C"a
WA4       1 10      100Is      10"7      400    It"        z0os      20l       20or       2003      204           u00    MOO       2007       200       2000       "if   _2QII         2012      2012       2014      2012      20Is       201?      2010       "is0
I0W..O.01C0.0lw        0   01274                                    2004       2344      203         0                  0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0         0          000                            0000
OLR .. 1Id C.W.                               120    200        20        400       100      III       62         IN0       m2         I2        120       120         12       120I1N              122        100       IT        120         12       120        10        22        1          420
1000    to"         107        1000    I000    DM0    2001         1am         2am10u                         IN00      100        2000       000       2010      2011      2012      2012       2014      2010      2010       24117      Mi 310    210
L W.-.l   C-tt 0113010                                    400       2202       11       2220           a      0         0          0         0          0         0         0            a          a       0         0         0         0          4            a       0           a       0          0  
L lr.o000 C04P.0P0                                          00          0        101        0        0        0          0        "4          0       101         I          0         0          0        04                 I'll         0         0          0         0        04          0       10     
UL  . 0 .oO,C.                                              I I        12 3       27       I0               IN 1      I0Is2      I2        12I        126       1 2        I0 .  120 12         I20       I2        120I      130                       120 10 12       I20       12        I2         120       42
T.OW                                                       .7.      100         am0      230                 I         I20 12    210       I2 2s00              120        120       120       120        210       120       200       130        126       120        120       210       120        20         2
1000w           IN?7       low0    100      200    2001         200       22         2200       0006  3  2000       20o7      am         ZOOS      2010       011      2042       2012       NU1       20l0       Nis      201?       NI1S      2010
LW..omaOCO.b.OIIg01..I                     020       2043        1717        0        0        0         0          0          0         0         026430               0          00  0                         0  0  0                         0                   0000
L0    .~ C00 F ,07                                                    43           0                          0          073  0                         0         0          0I0                           14       101          0         0                                       14       4020  
ML   0s.0.dco"                                              1 2        01 I        I      110      121      I3   :II        III 121         III       3l        II3    1        1     2, :1     II        Il         ll       Il         I III 131  121 III 1321 13211 III II
1Tow                                                     lOll       000         1700       iII     131      Il        I         M6        214         III      II        12         12 I   I   I         206       I14       III        .III      II        11         11        206        14        II         2
AM-  ..d                                              10t"     100          00       11000    100       20"      SW0       am0        200       210041       0        00       2 20"000 2            000m  i   Nis0       211      2012      2013      214%       2011       Ze10      2017       al1l     21
L b.o01000C..2.lis 1                                                 037       09         00                  0         01         0                                     0                  0               0         0II                            0         000                                             
LOw.000CON0F00                                             2         10                     I       0        0 24                           1 2        I         0I                  1412                              I        0Ad2                        I1 2'                   I         001
U ..000010C0O                                               4         I          21       20       3I       21        21         I          11       32        121         21        21           1       31         31        31    1             1 1        II        II         2       1                      II
7001                                        ~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~      ~~~      ~~~      ~     ~~~~~44  904  1002  IsII 21 0  14 32  12       II         2          0         1         23        22        II          1        St       14I         13        22         II1 I0
0   wf                                             is" 00   100         ml?        1 1011 000        MN0    3001        200        200       20         am0       2000      2001       200       am0        2010      Ze11      21012     2012       21014     2010       2010      2011      201t       21
L bwotas 00C.-O.0,02262                                             0042       MI,          0        0        0         0                                                                        0          0         0         0         00                                                                   
L    l. C-1 r                                               660       102          0             0                       0         0        1.3         0          0         0 00      00                            1.12        0         00                   00                  .00       0      
IL   oNv00002                                                4         22         40        0       0         0         0          1         0          0        00         0          0         0          0        0           0        0         00 UAS0                         St        0004
L II-sksidO COGO00019104064                                        147         20         02         0        0         0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         000  0                              0               00000
woIO.O      C.0000020                                                 72        72       Ml 210                         0       27        40          22        I           0        1         110       210        401      221         III       1         110         2       27          0        212
IL  0o-0vfC0a                                               4         120        247       US      410      40?       407        407        40?       407        MY7        4?407               407       417      "40     47 40      7       407  401        47        407       407        407       40  
G2M       10170       I104     2000      4I       407        001       074        Ml1       71s       40         407       001        607       700       MI         70        400       OIl         "7       400        70        no0       7          S22
02   (0
09       0 
(0  0 
00XL
'-''a PM



Economic Analysis                                                                            ECOLE6.XLS
Lebanese Repubilc
IrrigatIon Rehabilitation and Modernizatlon Project
Economic Analysis
1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10    11      12     13     14    15      16     17    18    19    20        21     22    23    24    25
Economic Costs
(Quasmleh/RasAt    578  2406  3382  2395    81   134    135   218   135   296   135   135   135   135   218    135   296    135   135    135    135   218   135   296   135
Yamrmouneh         1350  2678  2463   404    105    125    125   190   222   185   135    125   125   125   190   222   185   135   125    125    125    190   222   185   135
Danniye            1011   2767  1798    114   131    131    131    205   314   131    131    131   131   131    205   314   131   131    131    131    131    205   314   131   131
ARaar                 46   964  1002       29    31    31       55    140     33    32    31    31        55   140    33       32    31    31       55    140     33    32    31    31        55
South Bekaa        2310  6757  3919        66    66    66                                                 66    66   121    248    66                             66   121   248    66        66
Total Irigailon Sche   5295 15572 12564  3008   414   487    512    874   952   710   498   488   512   597   767   951    709   498   512   597   490   766   950   709   522
Instftutlon Strengthenitng
Financial Costs
Extension            65   284   277   277   277   250            5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5
Applied Research    520   724   235   183    147         74     65     65     65    65    65       65    65    65    65        65    65    65    65        65     65     65    65    65       65
MHER (irrigation D   305    371    447    197     17      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      8
LRA(Studiesiand     333   345   190    78    12          12     12     12     12    12    12       12    12    12    12        12    12    12    12        12     12     12    12    12       12
Water Authorl8ies     48    192   317    70    59        13
LRA (Water Resourc   234      43    31    31       14     14     14     14     14    14    14       14     14    14    14       14     14    14    14       14     14     14    14    14       14
MHER (Hydrogelogl   368       60     33    31       4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4       4     4      4      4
Quality Control       430     62     54    24    20    20        20     20     20    20    20       20     20    20    20       20    20    20    20    20         20    20    20    20    20
Implemelltatlon Unn   132     99      6      6      6      6
Total               2435  2180  1589   897   555   400    127    127   127   127   127   127    127   127   127   127   127   127   127    127   127    127   127   127   127
Economic Costs
Extension            65    284   277   277   277   250           5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5      5       5     5      5      5
Aopiled Research     532    724   235    183    147      74     65    65      65    65    65       65    65    65    65        65    65    65    65    65         65    65    65    65    65
MHER (irrigation D   313    384   465    197      17      8      8      6      6      8      8      8      8      8      8      8      6      8      8      8      8       8     8      8      8
LRA(Studiesand      335    348   193    81        12     12     12    12      12    12      12    12    12    12    12         12     12     12    12      12     12     12    12    12       12
WaterAulhorlties      48    198   323      76    63      14
LRA (WaterResourc   236       43    31    31       14    14      14    14      14    14    14       14    14    14    14        14      14    14    14       14     14    14    14    14    14
MHER (Hydrogeloii   368       60     33    31       4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4       4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4      4
Quality Control       456     62     54    24    20       20     20     20     20    20    20       20     20    20    20        20    20    20    20        20     20    20    20    20        20
Implementaton Unt   132       99      6      6      6      6      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0             0      0      0      0
Total (Economic Co  2485  2202  1617   905   560   401    127    127    127   127    127   127    127   127    127    127    127   127   127    127    127    127   127   127    127
AreaAdiustment(63  1565  1387  1018    570   352   253           80      80    60    80    80        80     80    80      80     80     80    B0    80       80     80     80    80    80       80
Total Economic Co   6860 16959 13582  3578   766   740    592    954  1032   790   578   568   592   677    847  1031    789   578   592   677   570   846  1030   789   602
Benetts
Ouasmler/RasAl         0      0      0   271    855  1869  2802  3423  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613  3613
Yammouneh              0      0      0   735  2100  3246  3f694  3773  3773  3773  3773  3773  3773  3713  3 773  3773  3773  3773  3773  3773  3773  3773  3 773  3773  3773
Dannlye                    0                    1237  1584   1707                                              1734  1734  1734 1734          1734i737473  4     73YT7 3 4 733 173i7   t73;-734
Akaar                 64     84   297   444   482   482    482   482   482   482   482   482   482   482   482    482   482   482   482    462    462   482   482   482   482
South Bekaa            0      0      0   228   526  1173   1981   2772  3566  4096  4441   4622  4674  4666  4686  4686  4686  4686  4686  4686  4686  4686  4686  4686  4666
Total Benefits         B4     84   479  2306  5199  8354 10667 12185 13169 13699 14044 142?5 14277 14289 14289 14289 14289 14289 14289 14289 14289 14289 14289 14269 14269
Net BeneM          -6777 -16876 13103  -1272  4433  7614 10075 11231  12137 12909 13465 13656 13685 13611  13441  13257 13499 13710 13696 13611  13718 13442 13258 13499 13686
ERR                  19%
NPV@12%            24079                                                    Sensitivity Analysis
I.
6/4/94                                                                                          Page 1                                                                                        105 P- F



Lebanon
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Sensitivity Analysis       1          2         3          4         5          6         7         8          9         10
Benefits - 20 %                  -6794    -16892    -13199      -1733       3393      5943      7941       8794      9503      10169
ERR                               16%
Costs +20 %                      -8149    -20267    -15820      -1988      4280       7466      9956      11040     11930      12751
ERR                               17%
Costs +30%                       -8835    -21963    -17178      -2346      4203       7392      9897      10944     11827      12672
ERR                               15%
Costs+40%                        -9521    -23659    -18536      -2704      4126       7318      9838      10849     11724      12593
ERR                               14%
Costs +50 %                     -10207    -25355    -19895      -3061       4050      7244      9779      10753     11621      12514
ERR                               14%
Cost +70 %                      -11579    -28747    -22611      -3777       3896      7096      9660      10563     11414      12355
ERR                               12%
Benefits - 20 %                  -6794    -16892    -13199      -1733       3393      5943      7941       8794      9503      10169
ERR                               16%
Benefits -30 %                   -6802    -16901    -13247      -1964       2873      5108      6875       7575      8186       8799
ERR                               14%
Benefits -35%                    -6806    -16905    -13271      -2079       2613      4690      6341       6966      7528       8114
ERR                               13%
Benefits -40%                    -6810    -16909    -13295      -2195       2353      4273      5808       6357      6869       7429
ERR                               12%
Benefits -40%                    -6810    -16909    -13295      -2195       2353      4273      5808       6357      6869       7429
ERR                               12%
>   >
C   c
6/5/94                                                             Pagel1                                                          12:02 AM



L-, .3fCne PcpLtlhc
-V3'D ,. Untion daid Modern:zation Project
Sumrnmary of Ec,riu  Pt.,-.             -'--'
Proect Year                           1          2           3          4           5          6          7           a     9 to 26
Base Case                                     ERR:       30.1%            NPV@(12%      $11,270
Beneft, in $000 o                     n                      0        735       2,100      3,246       3,694      3,773       3,773
Cost, in $ '000                   1,35u       2,678      2,463        404         105        125        125         190        222
Net Benefit                      -1,350     -2,678      -2,463        331       1,994      3,121       3,569      3,583       3,551
Cost Increased by 10%                         ERR        28.1%            NPV@12%        $10,662
Benefit, in $'000                     0          0           0        735       2,100      3,246       3,694      3,773       3,773
Cost, in $'000                    1,485       2,946      2,710        445         116        137         137        209        244
Net Benefit                      -1,485     -2,946      -2,710        290       1,984      3,109       3,557      3,564       3,529
Cost Increased by 26%                         ERR:       26.6%            NPV@12%         $9,751
Benefit, in $ '000                    0          0           0        735       2,100      3,246       3,694      3,773       3,773
Cost, inS '000                    1,687       3,347      3,079        506         132        156         156        237        277
Net Benefit                      -1,687     -3,347      -3,079        229       1,968      3,090       3,538      3,536       3,496
Benefits Reduced by 10%                       ERR:       27.9%            NPV@12%         $9,635
Benefit, in $ '000                    0          0           0        661       1,890      2,922       3,325      3,396       3,396
Cost, in S '000                   1,350       2,678      2,463        404         105        125         125        190        222
Net Benefit                      -1,350     -2,678      -2,463        257       1,784      2,797       3,200      3,206       3,174
Benefits Reduced by 26%                       ERR:       24.3%            NPV@12%         $6,933
Benefit, in $ '000                    0          0           0        551       1,575      2,435       2,771      2,830       2,830
Cost, in $ '000                   1,350       2,678      2,463        404         105        125         125        190        222
Net Benefit                      -1,350      -2,678     -2,463        147       1,469       2,310      2,646      2,640       2,608
Benefits Lagged by 1 Year                     ERR:       26.4%            NPV@12%         $9,213
Benefit, inS '000                     0          0           0          0         735       2,100      3,246      3,694       3,773
Cost, in $000                     1,350       2,678      2,463        404         105        125         125        190        222
Net Benefi                       -1,350      -2 678     -2,463        -404        630       1,975      3,121      3,504       3,551
Benefits Lagged by 2 Years                    ERR:       22.1%            NPV@12%         $7,377
Benefit, in $'000                     0          0           0          0           0        735       2,100      3,246       3,694
Cost, in $'000                    1,350       2,678      2,463        404         105        125         125        190        222
Net Benefit                      -1,3S0      -2,678     -2,463       -404        -105        610       1,975      3,056       3,472
Switchin Values
Cost Increased by                                       185 5%
Benefits Reduced by                                     65.0%
o  0
o    ru
4S-
6/4/94                                                                                                                                                         10:51 PM



Lebanese Republic
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Sunmdry of Ecorniotmic Aialysis for Qua%rnieth Schenme
_Foject Year                          1          2          3         4          6          6          7          8    9 lo 25
Base Case                                    ERR:      22.9',           NPV 12%h    $7,623
Benefit, in $ 'OOC,                  O           0          O        71        855      1 869      2,&02      3,423      3,613
Cost, in $ 000                     ,,3       2  )5      3 362     2.395         81        135        135        218        135
Beneft                                  -q ,<       3382      -2.124       774       1,734     2,1668     3 205     3,479
Cost Increased by 1O01.                      ERR       21.'%            NPV@12%        $6,811
Benefit in  'CC)                                C          0        271        855      1,869      2,802      3,423      3613
Cost, in $ 0OG                     636       2,645      3,720     2,634         89        148        148        240        148
Ne.t Benfit                       -636      -f 645     -.,10      -2 364       766      1 720      2,654      3,183      3 465
Cost Increased by 25,J                       ERR:      19.2h            NPV11294    $5.743
Benefit, it) $'000 0C                            G         0        271        855      1 869      2,802      3,423      3,613
lCost n 5'7(x                       722      3.0J5      4 C22      2,994        102        168        168        273       168
___-        __n  .t.                         3- 3.06    -427      -2 723        753      1 700      2,634      3,151      3,445
Benefits Reducedi bV 1G -                    ERR:      21.1%            NPV@12%        $6,059
Benefit, in $ DOO                     0          0         0        244        769      1,682      2,522      3,081      3,252
C5st, n S3OC)                      578       2 405      3 382      2,395        81        135        135        218        135
Netl Peneft                       -5 7      -- 405     -3,382     -2,1 5i      688       1,547     2,387      2,863      3,117
Benelits Reduced by 25,                     ERR:      18.2%/           NPV@12%        $3,862
Benefit, in $ 000                     0          0          0       203        641      1,401      2,102      2,567      2,710
Cost, in S '000                    578       2. 405     3 382     2,395         81        135        135        218        135
Net Benefit                       -578      -2,405     -3,382     -2,192       560      1,267      1,967      2,349      2,575
Benefits Lagged by 1 Year                    ERR:      19.8%,C          NPV@12%        $6,764
Benefit, in $ '000                    0          0          0         0        271        855      1,869      2,802      3,423                                                     1
Cost, in $'000                     578       2,405      3,382      2,395        81        135        135        218        135
Net Benefit                       -578      -2.405     -3,382     -2,395       189        720      1,734      2,584      3,289
Benefits Lagged by 2 Years                   ERR:      17.4%            NPV@12%        $4,194
Benefit, in $ '000                   0           0          0         0          0        271        855      1,869      2,802
Cost, in $'000                     578       2,405      3,382      2,395        81        135        135        218        135
Net Beneft                        -578      -2,405     -3,382     -2,395       -81        136        720      1,650      2,668
Switchin Vatues
Cost Increased by                                     105.6%
Benefits Reduced by                                    51.4%
00
fz :> tw :>
-o   d_
4-4 P
6F/Sj94                                                                                                                                                                 445 PM



Lebanese Republic
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Summary of Economic Analysis for Danniye Scheme
[Project Year                    1          2           3          4           6          6          7           8        9-25
Base Case                               ERR:       20.0%            NPV"12%         $3,242
Benefit, In $'000               0           0        182        628       1,237       1,584      1,707       1,734      1,734
Cost, in $000                1,011      2,766       1,798        115        131        131         131        205         3141
Net Benefit, in $ '00      -1,011      -2,766      -1,616       514       1,106       1,453      1,576       1,529      1,420
Cost Increased by 10%                   ERR:       18.3%            NPV@12%         $2,717
Benefit, in $'000               0           0        182        628       1,237       1,584      1,707       1,734      1,734
Cost, in $'000               1,113      3,043       1,978        126        144        144         144        225         345
Net Benefit, in $ 000       -1,113     -3,043      -1,796       502       1,093       1,440      1,563       1,509      1,389
Cost Increased by 26%                   ERR:       16.1%             NPV@12%        $1,930
Benefit, in $000                0           0        182        628       1,237       1,584      1,707       1,734      1,734
Cost, in $'000              1,264       3,458      2,248        143         164        164         164        256         392
Net Benefit, in $ '000      -1,264     -3,458     -2,065        485       1,073       1,420      1,543       1,478      1,342
Benefits Reduced by 10%                 ERR:       18.1%            NPV@12%         $2,393
Benefit, in $'000               0          0         164        565       1,113       1,426      1,537       1,561      1,561
Cost, in $000               1,011       2,766      1,798         115        131        131         131        205         314
Net Benefit, in $ '000      -1,011     -2,766      -1,634       451         982       1,294      1,405       1,356      1,247
Benefits Reduced by 26%                 ERR:       16.0%            NPV@12%         $1,119
Benefit, in $'000               0           0        137        471         928       1,188      1,280       1,301      1,301
Cost, in $'000               1,011      2,766       1,798        115        131        131         131        205         314                                             1
Net Benefit, in $S000       -1,011     -2,766      -1,661       357         796       1,057      1,149       1,096        987
Benefits Lagged 1 Year                  ERR:       17.1%             NPV@12%        $2,241
Benefit, in $'000               0           0          0         182        628       1,237      1,584       1,707      1,734
Cost,in$'000                1,011       2,766       1,798        115        131        131         131        205         314
Net Beneft, in $'000        -1,011     -2,766      -1,798        68         497       1,106      1,453       1,502      1,420
Benefits Lagged 2 Years                 ERR:       14.9%             NPV@12%        $1,348
Benefit, In $'000               0           0          0          0         182        628       1,237       1,584      1,707
Cost, in$'000               1,011       2,766       1,798        115        131        131         131        205         314
Net Benefit, in  '000       -1,011     -2,766      -1,798       -115         51        497       1,106       1,379      1,393
Switching Values
Cost Increased by                                  61.8%
Benefits Reduced by                                38.2%
CD -r)0 -
(DOrDN 
o  D P  M
6/4/94                                                                                                                                                         10-49 PM



Lebanese Republic
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modemization Project
Sumrnary of Economic Analysis for Akkar-Bared Scheme
Project Year                   1          2           3          4          5          6          7          8       9-26
Base Case                              ERR:      244%              NPV@12%        81,162
Benefi, In $'000              84         84        297         444        482        482        482        482        482
Cost, in $S000                46        964       1,002         29        31          31         55        141         33
Net Benefit, inS '000         37        -880       -705        416       451         451        427        342        450]
Cost Increased by 10%                  ERR       21.5%             NPV@12%         $883
Benefit, in $'000             84         84        297         444        482        482        482        482        482
Cost, in $'000                51       1,060      1,102         31         34         34         61        155         36
Net Benefit, in $'000         33        -977       -805        413        448        448        422        328        447
Cost Increased by 25%                  ERR:       18.1%            NPV@12%         $716
Beneft, in S'000              84         84        297         444        482        482        482        482        482
Cost, in $'000                58       1,205      1,253         36         39         39         69        176         41
Net Benefit, In $'000         26      -1,121       -956        409        444        444        413        307        44
Benefits Reduced by 10%                ERR-      21.2%             NPV@12%         $867
Benefit, in $'000             75         75        267         400        434        434        434        434        434
Cost, in $'000                46        964       1,002         29         31         31         55        141         33]
Net Benefit, in $'000         29        -889       -735        371        403        403        379        294        402
Benefits Reduced by 26%                ERR:       16.6%            NPV@12%         $424                                  1
Benefit, In $ '000            63         63        223         333        362        362        362        362        362
Cost, in $'000                46        964       1,002         29         31         31         55        141         33
Net Benefit, in $'000         16        -901       -779        305       331         331        307        221        329_
Benefits Lagged 1 Year                 ERR        19.2%            NPV@12S         S821                                  1
Benefit, in $'000              0         84          84        297        444        482        482        482        482
Cost, in $'000                46        964       1,002         29         31         31         55        141         33
Net Benefit, inS '000        -46        -880       -918        268        413        451        427        342        450
Benefits Lagged 2 Years                ERR:       16.0%            NPV@12%         $516
Benefit, in $'000              0          0          84         84        297        444        482        482        482
Cost, in $'000                46        964       1,002         29         31         31         55        141         33
Net Benefit, in $'000        -46        -964       -918         55        266        413        427        342        450
Switching Values
Cost Increased by                                64.9%
Benefits Reduced by                              39.4%
-   d    -
P
ow    D
(D > rQ :>
H6 NPM
6/5/94                                                                                                                                                     4:43 PM



Lebanese Republic
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
Summary of Economic Analysis for South Bekaa Scheme
Project Year                      1            2            3            4             6            6            7             8            9
Base Case                                  ERR:         16.3%              NPV@12%             $6,101
Beneft, in $'000                 0             0            0          228           526        1,173         1,981        2,772        3,566
Cost, in $'000                2,311        6,757        3,920           66            66           66           66           121          24,8
Net Benefit, in $'000        -2,311       -6,757       -3,920          162           460         1,108        1,915        2,651        3,318
Cost Increased by 10%                      ERR:         15.2%              NPV@12%             S4,027
Benefd, in S'000                 0             0            0          228           526        1,173         1,981        2,772        3,566
Cost, in $'000                2,542        7,432        4,312           72            72           72           72           133          273
Net BenefMt, In $'000        -2,542       -7,432        4,312          155           453        1,101         1,909        2,639        3,293
Cost Increased by 25%                      ERR:         13.8%              NPV@12%             $2,415
Benef, in OO0                    0             0            0          228           526         1,173        1,981        2,772         3,566
Cost, In $ '000               2,888        8,446        4,900           82            82           82           82           151          311
Net Benefid, in $'000        -2,888       -8,446       -4,900          146           444         1,091        1,899        2,621         3,256
Benefits Reduced by 10%                    ERR:         15.1%              NPV@12%             $3,617
Benefd, In $'000                 0             0            0          205           473        1,056         1,783        2,495         3,209
Cost, in $ '000               2,311        6,757        3,920           66            66           66           66           121          248
Net Benefi, In $'000         -2,311       -6,757       -3,920          139           407          990         1,717        2,374         2,961
Benefits Reduced by 26%                    ERR:         13.1%              NPV@12%             $1,140
Benefd, in $'000                 0             0            0           171          394          880         1,486        2,079         2,675
Cost, in $'000                2,311        6,757        3,920           66            66           66           66           121          248                           1
Net Benefd, In $ '000        -2,311       -6,757       -3,920          105           329          814         1,420        1,958         2,426
Benefits Lagged 1 Year                     ERR:         14.6%              NPVr*12%            $3,167
Benefit, in $'000                0             0            0            0           228          526         1,173        1,981         2,772
Cost, in $'000                2,311        6,757        3,920           66            66           66           66           121          248
Net Benefd, In $'000         -2,311       -6,757       -3,920           -66          162          460         1,108        1,860         2,524
Benefits Lagged 2 Years                    ERR:         13.1%              NPV@12%             $1,422
Benefit, in $'000                0             0            0            0             0          228          526         1,173         1,981
Cost, in $'000                2,311        6,757        3,920           66            66           66           66           121          248
Net Benefid, In $ '000       -2,311       -6,757       -3,920           -66          -66          162          460         1,052         1,733
Switchin Values
Cost Increased by                                       47.5%
Benefis Reduced by                                      32.2%
Gains in Cropping Intensity Reduced by                  19.0%
rD  :> :>
00
(0 :3
6/4/94                                                                                                                                                       10:51 PM



I 130 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
MARKETING
A. Domestic Markets
1.          The domestic market for Lebanese grown agricultural products often
proves to be more risky than foreign markets. Lebanon is surrounded by
countries that highly subsidize agricultural production. At the same time,
the Lebanese economy is very open, which means that domestic production does
not enjoy protection through tariffs, quotas, or import bans. Although the
Ministry of Agriculture has established an Agricultural Calendar to protect
domestic producers at certain times of the year, it has been unable to enforce
the calendar in any significant way. This is particularly true for products
form Syria. Trade data seem to suggest that Syria has been able to export
large amounts of agricultural products to Lebanon. Farmers complain that
domestic market prices for products that are grown in Syria and sold in
Lebanon often fall to levels where Lebanese products are no longer profitable.
Such price fluctuations, however, are difficult to predict as they depend on
actual Syrian production.
2.          Except for the marketing of wheat, tobacco, and sugarbeet, the
government does not interfere in the production and sale of agricultural
produce. Even in areas where the government markets the products, prices are
usually set around the world level, which means that relatively few
distortions are introduced (see Text Box 1). More commonly, farmers sell
their produce to traders at the local or even farm level. However, while
traders and wholesalers are well organized and informed about prices and
quantities available in various local market, farmers have so far been unable
to organize themselves to increase their information base and bargaining power
vis a vis the traders. As a result, the producers' share of the domestic
retail price has been limited to about 30-45 percent1.
3.          Several agro-businesses are engaged in the processing of locally
produced fruits and vegetables. This provides the opportunity to sell year
round otherwise highly seasonable fruits for the domestic market, but also
allows for an easier marketing abroad. The food processing industry in
Lebanon, however, is limited by the relatively low level of agricultural
production suitable for food processing. Many processing plants run at very
low levels of capacity due to the lack of suitable fruits and vegetables. As
a result, many agro-businesses import part of their input requirements from
Syria and Turkey.
1/    FAO (1993), "Agricultural Marketing Study" in preparation for Baalbeck-
Hermel Area Integrated Rural Development Program, LEB/92/016.



- ]31 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
The governmcnt of Lebanon depends heavily on imports to meet the domestic demand for
wheat and wheat flour. It imports annually about 400,000 tons to meet domestic demand and
accumulate some reserves. Imports are scheduled over two month intcrvals. Until 1992 the
government was the sole importer but since the beginning of 1993 this monopoly has been abolished.
Now traders and mill owners can import wheat without restrictions. There are about 14 private
flour mills operating in Lebanon.
The wheat produced locally is subsidized at the farmer's level. The government, through
the Cereals Office, sets the procurement price to the flour mills. For 1991 the procurement price
was set at US$ 0.10 per kg, and the total quantity delivered to the mills was 15,000 tons. In 1992,
the announced price was US$ 0.14 per kg for soft wheat, and US$ 0.15 per kg for durum wheat, but
there were no deliveries on the part of farmers because the open market prices were higher than the
declared government price. For 1993, procurement prices have been announced at US$ 0.17 and
US$ 0.18 per kg for soft and durum wheat, respectively. The government expects farmers to deliver
about 12,000 tons,
The wheat delivered by farmers at declared government prices is sold to the local flour
mills. The difference, however, between local wheat prices and imported wheat prices to the mills is
negligible. The government prices for this year's delivery to mills are set at US$ 150 per ton and the
imported wheat prices range between US$ 140 and US$ 150 per ton.
Source: FAO Agricultural Marketing Study, 9/93, LEB/92/016.
1:
The Marketing of Wheat
B. Foreign Markets
4.          Before the onset of the internal conflict, agricultural products
used to be sold at a premium in foreign markets, mostly the Gulf States.
Lebanese produce had a reputation for being of very high quality both because
of the climatic conditions for growing fruits and vegetables in Lebanon as
well as the proximity to export markets. During the course of the war,
however, supply lines from Lebanon were at times interrupted and as a result
importing countries increasingly turned toward other suppliers of agricultural
products. Traditional supply routes disintegrated which meant that those
traders who had reliable counterparts in importing countries, such as close
family members, were the most successful in marketing their products. Another
disruptive event for Lebanon's agricultural exports was the Gulf conflict in
late 1990 and early 1991 when it became increasingly difficult to sell
produce in the Gulf States. This may in part have been responsible for the
lackluster performance of agricultural exports over the past two years.
5.          Despite the difficulties in maintaining a marketing network
abroad, a large part of Lebanon's agricultural production is still exported to
surrounding arab countries and the Gulf States. Lebanon has, to some extent,
lost its reputation as an exporter of high quality produce, but it continues



- 13.1 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
to enjoy an advantage due to its proximity to the Gulf States, which can be
reach by truclk in a relatively short period of time. Each day, over 50
refrigerated trucks leave Lebanon for Saudi Arabia and the other Gulf
countries.
6.          To engage in the exportation of agricultural products requires no
specific qualifications or licenses on behalf of traders, nor does it require
large amounts of capital. As a result, there are currently about 30 traders
active in the agricultural export market. Most exporters secure the necessary
quantities of products with the help of middlemen who contact farmers
directly. The middlemen negotiate with farmers over the price shortly before
harvest. The price quoted varies considerable, depending on whether the sale
is on a cash basis or payment is made in installments, with the cash price
being as much as 30 percent the below nominal price when payment is made in
installments. However, when the farmer does not receive payment on the spot,
there are no explicit interest charges for deferred payment. As a result,
farmers may suffer significant losses when middlemen delay payment of the
installments beyond the agreed upon timetable. This tends to happen
frequently when exporters experience difficulties in marketing their products
abroad and delay in turn their payments to middlemen.
C. General Marketing Issues
7.          Internally,                              Table l:
increasing farmers income is                    Cold Storage Capacity
hampered by the lack of both             (in '000 m3, % of capacity in parentheses)
storage facilities and
credit. Many of Lebanon's
cold storage facilities were                 Itutal  ()pcrational 'Iemporarily  Damaged or
destroyed during the war                                       Closcd   D)cstroyed
leaving only half of the          Beirut and    587   213       244      131
original 1 million cubic          Mount     (100.0)   (36.2)    (41.6)   (22.2)
meters in usable condition        Lebanon
(Table 1).  Much of original      Norh        191     116       76
cold storage capacity was         Lebanon    (100.0)   (60.4)    (39.6)
located in Beirut to keep
produce fresh for export, as      South       30      30
well as off season domestic       Lebanon    (100.0)   (11)0.0)  -        -
consumption.  This is where       Bekaa      235      187       43        5
most of the destruction has       Valley    (100.0)   (79.5)    (18.4)   (2.1)
occurred during the war and
only a third of the original      Total      1044     545       363      136
capacity is currently                       (100.0)   (52.2)    (34.8)    (13.0)
operational. Access to cold
storage facilities, both in    Source: CDR
Beirut and the other areas,
is limited to large
enterprises and exporters who occupy virtually all of the available cold
storage space. Small farmers lack the financial strength to rent cold
storage, since any cash that they may obtain by agreeing to sell produce in



- 133 -
Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
the future is usually already committed to repaying suppliers if inputs.
Credit facilities, even for short-term credit are not available to small
farmers.
8.          The absence of any regulatory body and limited cooperation among
producers and traders has also meant that no significant grading standards
have been introduced. As a result, prices are not differentiated on the basis
of quality. Without the prices serving as a signal for the relative value of
different qualities, however, farmers are given no incentive to be responsive
to consumer tastes. This is true for both the domestic and foreign market and
helps explain the loss of reputation that Lebanese agricultural products have
experienced abroad2.
2/    The Fruit Office, an autonomous body under the MOA, used to enforce
quality controls on Lebanon's agricultural exports. However, its
abilities have been weakened by the civil war to the point where
existing regulations are completely ineffective.



Annex 13
-  134  -                                          Page  I of  3
LEBANON
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1994    199       1996      1997  ]  1998  J  1999  ]  2000  [  2001
ID    Name         R                A       Duration    '94   [  '95       '96                  98   |  '99                   1         '2
1    IRRIGATiTIORH I           IN  AND            m| 9ld
Loan Effectiveness                     Od
|   3         Procurement Process Quamieh         11 69d     _              ;            m i
4             Preparation of Specs & Bid      lOOd    W
5             Government Clearance              20d      .              ,
6             Transmit Specs & Bid Doc           7d      .
1  7    -         Bank Clearance of Specs &         30d
8             Issue Invitation to Bid           60d
9             Open Bids                          ld
1O             Evaluate Bids & Prepare Re       30d
1 1            Government Clearance of           1 5d    .
12             Transnmit Evaluation Rpt &  L     1d
13             Bank Clearance of Reconi         20d
14             Award Contract             i       id
e   --- -    -----     _--            4----: 
15      |      rImplementation            i   1 50w       *
16            tOMantenance Period               24       * 
17        Procurernerit Process Yammoun       1069d    i _m i 
13             Preparation of Specs & Bid     10 o
9 13   |      Government Clearance             20d 1
203            Transmit Specs & 3id Doc           7d
21             Bank Clearance of Specs &         30d
22             Issue Invitation to eid           60d
- 23             Open Bids                           1 d
24             Evaluate Bids & Prepare Re        30d
25             Gov-errnmejnt Clearance of        1 5d
26             Trarnsmit Evaluation Rpt&rT           |J
r2-7   |       Bank C.earance of Recomi          20d
28             Award Contract                     I d
29            Inmplenrenitation                1 30w
30             Mainitenance Period              24w 
31         Procurmo,nent Process Danniye      1 0780  y          m_
32             Piparri-ron of Spe-s & Bd       1 50d |__||_
33             Giverrrnrent Clearance            20J 
34             Trarnsmit Specs & B,d Doc          7d
35             Bank Clearance of Specs &        30d |            _
Project: Irrigation RuhztbLiration and  Critical       Z                  Progress                          Summary   _
Date: 6/6/94                            Noncritical                       Milestone                         Rolled Up



-  135  -                                             Annex  13
Page 2 of 3
LEBANON
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1994   1991I5   1996       1997     1998     1999      2        2001     2002
ID    Name                               Duration    '94   |'95        '96      '97      '98       '99       O        '1      '2
36            Issue Invitation to Bid         60d
37            Open Bids                        id
38            Evaluate Bids & Prepare Re      30d
39            Government Clearance of         15d
40            Transmit Evaluation Rpt &       1 5d
41            Bank Clearance of Recom         20d
42            Award Contract                  10d
43            Implementation                120w
44            Maintenance Period             24w
45        Procurement Process Akker Bar     978d
46            Preparation of Specs & Bid    1 50d
47            Government Clearance            20d    . 
48            Transmit Specs & Bid Doc         7d
49            Bank Clearance of Specs &       30d
SO            Issue Invitation to Bid         60d
51            Open Bids                        ld
52            Evaluate Bids & Prepare Re      30d
53            Government Clearance of         1 Sd
54            Transmit Evaluation Rpt &       1 5d
55            Bank Clearance of Recom         20d
56            Award Contract                 lOd
57            Implementation                100w
58            Maintenance Period             24w
59        Procurement Process South Be     1069d  _.       ;     i 
60            Preparation of Specs & Bid     150d Sod
61            Government Clearance            20d
62            Transmit Specs & Bid Doc         7d
63            Bank Clearance of Specs &      30d
64            Issue Invitation to Bid         60d
65            Open Bids                        ld
66   |        Evaluate Bids & Prepare Re      39d
67            Government Clearance of         1 '5d
68            Transmit Evaluation Rpt &       1 5d
69            Bank Clearance of Recomi        20d
70            Award Contract                   id
Project: Irrigation Rehabilitation and  |Critical   L;77-  il   Progress                _Summary_
|Date: 616194                     |Noncritical       @        =       Milestone  *Rolled Up 



-  136  -                                       Annex  13
Page 3 of 3
LEBANON
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1994     1995   1 1996     1997          19    .99  199         200 1   2002
ID    Name                               Duration   '94       '95      '96      '97      '98       '99      '0           1     2
71            Implementation                120w
72            Maintenance Period             24w
73        Procurement Process Small and    1639d
74            Social Assessment               6w
75            Selection Process               30d
76            Transmit selection propose      10d
77            Bank Clearance of Selectio      20d
78            Feasibilities Studies           90d
79            Preparation of Specs & Bid    1 50d
80            Government Clearance            20d    .
81            Transmit Specs & Bid Doc         7d
82            Bank Clearance of Specs &       20d    .
83            Issue Invitation to Bid         60d
84            Open Bids                        Id
85            Evaluate Bids & Prepare Re     30d
86            Government Clearance of         1 Sd
87            Transmit Evaluation Rpt &       15d                     I
88            Bank Clearance of Recom        20d    .
89            Award Contract                   Id
90            Implementation                200w
91            Maintenance Period             24w
92        Loan Closing Date                    Od
Project: Irrigation Rehabilitation and  Critical                     Progress                        Summary
Date: 6/6/94                         Noncritical                     Milestone  *                    Rolled Up  K



- 137 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project
IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION PLAN
1.1         Project Monitoring and Coordination would be the responsibility of
the WSIU who would submit progress reports to the PMU by mid-March and mid-
September of each year. These would be consolidated and distributed within
the Government and dispatched to the Bank by the CDR at the end of March and
the end of September of each year. These reports would cover: (a) progress
with surveys, design and preparation of tender documents for civil works in
each subproject area; (b) the bidding process (by contract) for civil works
and for procurement of equipment; (c) the physical achievement (by contract)
of civil works and the delivery of equipment; (d) the status of staff
training, technical assistance and specialized studies; (e) results (in
tabular form) of monitoring of water quality and other environmental aspects;
(f) agricultural performance (inputs and outputs in summarized tabular form in
the September report only); (g) results of the social monitoring and
evaluation program (including household income and expenditure, land tenure
and exploitation, and social welfare indicators); (h) the annual work program
and budgetary requirements for the Bank loan and for local funds for both
investment and O&M (March report only); (i) the status of counterpart funds in
relation to the approved budget and annual work program; (j) the status of
Bank disbursements, including pending withdrawal applications and projected
disbursements for the following six months; (k) the status of miscellaneous
issues, such as legal covenants and, accounts and audits; and (1) a summary of
the issues raised by the previous supervision mission and their resolutions.
1.2         Review Missions would normally be held in May and November of each
year. They would require the participation of WSIU's deputy manager for
irrigation, and of representatives of MOA, LRA, ARIL, LRA, and managers of the
concerned Regional Water Authorities. The May mission will generally be of
four weeks in-country duration and will be composed of an engineer, an
agricultural economist, and an agriculturist, and one or two other specialists
(e.g. environmentalist or social scientists) as needed. The November mission
will generally be of three weeks duration and will be composed of an engineer,
an agricultural economist or an agronomist and one or two specialists as
needed.
1.3         On arrival, mission briefing meetings would be chaired by the WSIU
manager and attended by representatives of the TCC, by the managers of the
RWA, and by other relevant staff from the MOA, LRA, ARIL, and Green Plan.
Missions would normally be accompanied on field visits by the WSIU's deputy
manager for irrigation. A wrap-up meeting at the conclusion of each mission
would be held in Beirut. A tentative supervision plan is shown in Table 1
providing for 19 supervision missions, including the PCR mission, over the
life of the project, including a mid-term review requiring 22 staff weeks.
Because of the size of the Project, a minimum supervision coefficient of 25-30
staff weeks will be required in the first three years of the Project.



- 1 38 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
Tentative list of indicators to monitor physical progress, agricultural yields
and farmers income is shown in Annex 15.
1.4         Mid-term Review and Completion Reports  A mid-term review of all
project activities would be conducted jointly by CDR, MHER, MOA, ARIL, LRA,
Green Plan, RWAs, and the Bank and other co-financiers. To facilitate the
review, the WSIU with assistance from consultants would prepare a detailed
report for submission to the Bank by October 31, 1997, for a joint review by
December 31, 1997. Section II of the Project Completion Report would be
prepared by the CDR and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after
the loan closing date.



Table 1: Bank Supervision InDut Into Key Activities
Supervision Mission                      Office Review and Procurement
(Inc luding Report Pr paration (S)                           (SW)
Special
Input &   Task          Procur.    Review        Total
FY     Type of Mission               Mission Timing        Civil Eng.    Agriculturist   Agri.Eco.    Misc.          Manager      Matters    Studies       (SW)
95      -To expedite initial                8/94                2               2               2            1           1                        1            9
Procurement efforts
-Initial Mobilization              11/94                3               2               3            -           1           1            1           11
-SPN - All schemes                 05/95                3               2               3            2           1           1            2           14
Subtotal for FY95                                      8               6               8            3           3           2            4           34
96      -Selective Supervision              11/95               2               1               1            2           2           1            1           10
-SPN All schemes                   05/96                3               3               3            1           2           1            2           15
Subtotal for FY96                                       5               4               4            3           4           2            3           25
97      -Selective Supervision              11/96               2               1               2            2           2           1            1           11
-SPN All schemes                   05/97                3               3               3            1           2           1            2           15
Subtotal for FY97                                      5               4               5            3           4           2            3           26
98      -Mid-Term Review                    11/97               4               4               4            4           3           1            2           22             l
-Selective Supervision             05/98                2               1               2            2           2           1            1           11
Subtotal for FY98                                      6               5               6            6           5           2            3           33
99      -Selective Supervision              11/98               2               1               2            1           2           -            1            9
-SPN All schemes                   05/99                3               2               3            2           2           1            1           14
Subtotal for FY99                                      5               3               5            3           4           1            2           23
00      -Selective Supervision              10/99               2               1               2            1           1           -            1            8
-SPN All schemes                   05/00                2               2               2            1           2           -            1            10
Subtotal for FYOO                                      4               3               4            2           3           -            2           18
01      -Selective Supervision             11/00                2               1               2            1           2           -            1            9
-Final Supervision                 05/01                3               3               3            2           2           1            1           15
Subtotal for FY01                                      5               4               5            3           4           1            2           24
02     -PCR Review                         11/01                3               3               3            2           1                        2           14
IL__Subtotal for FY02                  I      _       _            3                3               4           2            1       ____             2           14
X0 >
OQ Z
O 4-
Fx



- 140 -
EBANESE EnLIC                                                       Annex 15
Ir-nialion Rehahilirtalon 0nd Moderni7ation Proiect
rroposea Key Ioa0ni1onne Indi3cator
1999                      19197              199Z'         199912002
EK.    Aer       EA      |        PA.       AM       EA-        Aet   FA.    Act
I         mOR PFRIIOIC NMOMcTORrNG   ___                          _
A        PTiYSICAL PROGRESS
1J       Htadxwerks .p  M5in Cand, 1Km)        10        -       0                70                 70  _-           4 i       _
2,       S,cQnd C-819 NiM)1                                     50         _      60         _       60         _      0t
3L       Trt7ta,v Sysem  (ha)                                   30                30                 40                li
4_ _     Waler Mm--urrnenl D-vice, MNIl         ___                                               
6        Pureinr Swol- (Nb)                      -       -                         2         -                  -
B.   INOsmTlnONAL
.L       Technical A -i.,a-nct
_    (a) M OHER (im)                       24               29                26                 II             1   3
_ (b MOA (-')                         7                35               66                 ol -              37
I (c LRA (um)                           12               27        1-       4                 5         _
j        ScafTTnirine 
(a) NMER (m)                                           13 5             33 .5       -      33.5 5         
rbl MOA                                        --m)     2              _
(__     (ciLRAA (m                                     It5                t5                 t        _ -  
(d) ISAL (-,)                        7                  6               2                             - _1L           -
I( 1 -Gr  rnPl-n (rml2                                   23 5              31 5                         _
(t) RWA (-)                                   I-       14t7                        I-                        11
=_________  (ci W,Vt, V      Aoo,ai,c,na (W/m    =               22         =      32         =.33              -      53        -
3.       S,uboviecf F nin,ctnen  Strvice_
(a) Scodina, Deaigrr.l  Suptrciion   0365              0.73             0.5 10                              0.1
Co.l, (USs c il
(b) Civil Work. Coocrncu Ud.r        5                 7                9                  12                12
Sucerviajon No)
4        C"ni-' Consulmnu and Spaci_
______    (ci Vanow  Snrdic (SlM)
(tl F-virrnn  Stodi,r (a/-N=)
5        F)n.nci.In BudemrcrI
_____(a) tnveatrnenr  id7ed tlR ernltiror    =       =                 =                                    =       = 
(hl Renuemnt Bud.tIER  nillion)            _ 
() 0 aN lM oacali o
(d) 0 & M Coga REwoery
lIR r_illion)
nI.   FOR MONMTORING AT M3D-
TERU AND3 COMPLETtON
A.       AGRICULTURA-L YIELDS
(bcledlint w ulor cir )rw-
1.       Whaat                                 2.J              3.2               35                 3.5              35
r___  Yamcnorh) V/hs
2.       Po&o                                  22               24                25                 253.             25.5
P7Ymmrmunehl vho                                               
3.       Bn                                    18.6              19.2             19.1               191              19.1
(Ovmaich) 1./_a
4        C1h136 (Oo.nreirh/                    12 6      _       36               14-                 14-  4    -               -
5.        Appies (Dinnimy) iha                 3         -      39                40                 41               41
6 A        j D. n)rT)i,)ti b.                  30               31                31                 37               34
7        Peorn (Dannic) Va                               - 36  _36                37                 39               41
1        Bro d Ble  G-r.. (SoUVh Bkek.)        10             i0                  10                 10to 5I
9.       Wheat                                 4.5              4 5               4 5                4.1              5.1
_____  Soouth ,boiac tTha                                                                                                   _
10.      Poo- o                                23               23                23                 24               25
_ So-rh rB.) c_ha
'.    Cilco  (Akh,.r)                          15       -       15                16                 1 -
B.       FARLMERS INCOMF
I .    Y.c-moonh
2        Ougmirih_
4        Atbr_
5        Sco,r3 B Ed..                                                              __   



- 141 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Prolect
Letter of Irrigation Sector Policy
With the support of the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
Project (ERRP), the Government of Lebanon has developed a policy and strategy
framework for the water and sanitation sector and is working on the
preparation of a national Water Management Master Plan.
Water Sector Policy
The main features of the GOL's water sector policy are the following:
(a)   Water supply and sanitation, and irrigation sector investments
should support GOL overall development objectives for the country
and reflect GOL environmental policies and standards;
(b)   Sector investments should be the economic and financial least-cost
solutions to identified problems, and should conform to GOL water
resource allocation and utilization guidelines;
(c)   All costs of water supply sanitation, and irrigation services
(operation and maintenance, loan amortization) should be borne by
the users of such services, through the payment of tariffs, fees
and taxes, to ensure the long-term sustainability of services
(with tariffs the preferred method because they can reflect the
actual cost of providing the service);
(d)   GOL may provide short-term financial assistance in the case of
population groups unable to meet such requirements immediately,
under guidelines and criteria of eligibility to be determined from
time to time by the Government, but in any event only after all
possibilities of internal cross-subsidies within the sector have
been fully exhausted;
(e)   Sector policy and regulatory functions should be assigned to
national organizations, and executive functions should be the
responsibility of regional and local operating organizations.
These regional and local organizations, publicly-owned, should
operate on a commercial basis, following a business plan which
clearly defines objectives and ensures the organization's
financial viability, and which is approved by the organization's
board and by the tutelage ministry;



- 142 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
(f)   Authority and responsibility for the operation and maintenance of
services should be vested in the lowest level of organization
capable of assuming this function, with appropriate efforts being
made to enable such organizations to do so. Regional institutions
should be given the authority to devise systems (and combinations
of systems) of direct operation of facilities and of providing
technical assistance to communities willing to operate and
maintain their own facilities, in order to combine the benefits of
economy of scale (e.g. central purchasing, common management,
major repair facilities, etc) with the benefits of local
administration of services, operation and maintenance;
(g)   The private sector should be encouraged to carry out specific
activities (such as equipment maintenance, etc.) or to assume all
service functions (for example, management of entire systems)
wherever this would result in greater efficiency and a reduction
in demand of state resources.
(h)   Users shall be consulted (for example, through market studies)
prior to investment decision and, specially in the rural areas,
plans for service extension and their implementation and operation
shall be based on community participation;
(i)   To reduce investment cost and to ensure adequate operation and
maintenance of completed activities, preference shall be given to
the use of technologies appropriate to local, cultural, financial
and physical conditions and to those which the community served
has the capacity to operate and maintain (either directly or by
paying others to provide such services)
Institutions
The policy would be implemented through the following institutions:
At the National Level
(a)   A National Water resource Authority INWRA would be responsible for
the strategic planning of water resource development and use of
conventional and non-conventional sources, for their allocation to
different sectors, and for the selling of their waters to the
Regional Water Authorities.
(b)   A Finance Reaulatorv Commission (FRC) would be responsible for
setting cost recovery, tariff, accounting and auditing policies,
the monitoring of the financial performance of operating
authorities, and for tariff approval for water supply and
sanitation services and for irrigation.



- 143 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
At the Regional Level
There would be two different institutions at the regional level.
One for irrigation and drainage and the other for water supply and sanitation.
Four Reaional Water Irrigation Authorities (RWIA) would be
responsible for operation and maintenance of headworks, pumping stations, main
and secondary canals for irrigation schemes. In the North Bekaa, the North
Bekaa Irrigation Authority will cover all irrigation schemes located in the
Aassi watershed, North of the city of Baalbek, including the Yammouneh
irrigation scheme. The North Lebanon Water Authority would cover the Danniye
and the Akkar El Bared schemes. The Mount Lebanon Water Authority would cover
the small schemes located in the Mount Lebanon Province. The Litani River
Authority would continue to cover irrigation schemes in the Litani watershed
and in South Lebanon.
The Minister of Water and Electrical Resources would appoint the
RIA board as well as its President and its General Manager. The RWIA would
have full financial and managerial autonomy to be able to conduct business in
the manner of a commercial enterprise. Water users would be represented in
the Board of Directors. RWIAs would also be organized to delegate maximum
responsibility to local units (Scheme Water Management Committees, Water Users
Associations) or to private companies with tariffs set to reflect local costs.
The Government intends to establish the RWIA before December 31, 1994.
Management of the Schemes
During project implementation, and before the new Regional Water
Authorities are fully operational. The current involvement of water users in
the operation of the schemes, through informal water users associations
organized around the selection and hiring of ditch riders (Shawi), will be
maintained where existing, and encouraged where it does not exist. In
addition, farmers will be formally represented in Scheme Operation Committees
which will be organized by the scheme office, through their elected Shawis.



- 144 -                             Annex 17
Page 1 of 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Methodologv Proposed
For the Selection of the Program of
Small and Medium Schemes (Other Schemes)
General
The program of small and medium irrigation schemes (other schemes) iB a
component of the IRMP. The program has two objectives: (i) increase rural
income and provide employment opportunities in the poorest areas of the
country; (ii) promote local initiative and farmers' participation in
rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes. The social
objectives of the program will not be achieved without an adequate economic
rate of return. Therefore, in order to be considered under the program, the
rehabilitation of a particular scheme will need to have an economic rate of
return of at least 12 percent.
To preserve social equity, the area to be rehabilitated will be distributed
among the different regions of the country: North Lebanon, Mount Lebanon,
Bekaa, South Lebanon, and Nabatieh.
Selection Methodology
To assign priorities inside each region, the following methodology is
proposed:
1/ Rapid Initial Assessment (RIA)
A general assessment of the status of agricultural and irrigation resources,
support services and market situation as well as of the scope of work, cost
estimate, expected benefits, and socio-economic environment has already been
completed for 28 schemes, and will be conducted on each additional scheme.
2/ Base Social Study
To complement the social information collected by the RIA, a base social study
will be done on each scheme. The MOHER intends to finance and to contract the
study to an NGO assisted by local universities. The study will focus on the
following: assessment of socio-economic conditions, identification of the
target group, implication of women and youth in agriculture, social
organization of operation and maintenance, recent achievement in community
participation in the rehabilitation of the scheme, opinion of the population
on the proposed project.
3/ Selection of the Schemes for Feasibility Stage
The information collected by RIAs and the social studies will be
analyzed under 5 types of criteria:



- 145 -                           Annex 17
Page 2 of 3
a) Socio-Economic Needs
- current agricultural income.
- reliance or agricultural income
- market value of the land
- school enrollment rate
- social conflicts linked to the scarcity of water for irrigation
- return to their land of people displaced by the war
- population density (% population involved in agriculture)
- size of holdings
- etc.
b) Agriculture and Irrigation Potentialities
- status of the irrigation infrastructure and scope for
improvement.
- availability and quality of support services
- marketing facilities
- etc.
c) Community Participation
- existence and dynamism of water users associations
- level and rate of recovery of water charges
- recent or ongoing participation of the population in
rehabilitation works organized by: NGO, municipality, or
cooperative
- Actual participation in operation and maintenance
- Water user's willingness to cover full O&M costs
- Water user's commitment in participating in the rehabilitation
(financial or labor participation)
- etc.,
d) Socio-economic Impact
- impact on women and youth
- employment generation
- financial rate of return
- economic rate of return
- etc.
c) Environmental, Riparian and Resettlement Issues
- the design of the rehabilitation works will aim at a positive
environmental impact and will not involve compulsory relocation of
the local population
Priority will be given to schemes operated and maintained by efficient
water authorities and/or Water Users' Associations, where public investment
would complement local initiative, and where sustainability of the development
impact will be more likely to be achieved.



1 146 -                             Annex 17
Page 3 of 3
4/ Feasibility Studies
Schemes selected under step 3/ would be subject to feasibility
studies under term of reference similar to those used for the first five main
schemes. To reduce investment cost and to ensure adequate operation and
maintenance of completed activities, the feasibility studies will give
preference to the use of technologies appropriate to local, cultural,
financial and physical conditions of the community which has the capacity to
operate and maintain (either directly or by paying others to provide such
services). The water users will be consulted on the choice of technology and
on the scope of the rehabilitation. The studies will address environmental
issues and will include a financial and economic analysis. To be selected for
financing under the project the ERR of the proposed investment will have to be
at least 12 percent. The actual rate of return will be taken into account in
the final selection.
5/ Final Selection of the Schemes
The final selection of the schemes will be done with respect to the
following criteria:
(a) Agriculture and irrigation potentialities
(b) Socio-economic needs
(c) Community participation
(d) Socio-economic benefits
(d) Economic rate of return of at least 12 percent
Preparation of the TOR and review of the studies will be done through
the MHER's WSIU and CDR's PMU. The selection will be endorsed by the Technical
Coordination Committee before formal submission to the Government and to the
Bank for approval.
6/. Detailed Designs and Preparation of Bidding Documents
Procurement procedures will be in compliance with the Loan and Project
Agreements.



- 147 -
Annex 18
Page 1 of 3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Irrigation Rehabilitaiton and Modernization Prodlect
List of Selected Documents Available in the Prolect File
1.    FAO Preparation Report - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization
Project - January 11, 1994
2.    Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Project, Rapid Initial
Assessment, Rapport General, Fiches Des Projets, January 1994, Cadres
Consulting Engineers
3.    Short Study for Assessment of Rehabilitation Requirements of Qashmieh,
Ras El Ain and South Bekaa Irrigation Schemes, Projet D'Irrigation De
Qasmieh Ras El Ain Volume 1 - Rapport General - October 1993 - Cadres
Consulting Engineers
4.    Short Study for Assessment of Rehabilitation Requirements and
Feasibility Study, Adonis Irrigation Scheme, February 1994, BTD
5.    South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (a)
South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (b)
South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (e)
Plan D'Occupation Des Sols Actuel Et Futur, Rotation Et Am6lioration
du Cycle Des Cultures, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (g)
Etude Economique De Rentabilite, Taux de Rentabilite Interne, January
1994 - Cadres Consulting Engineers
6.    South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (a)
Dossier De Rehabilitation, Rapport Sur Les Travaux De Rehabilitation
Specifications Devis Estimates - January 1994 - Cadres Consulting
Engineers
Volume (c) Ressources en eau Actuelles et Futures - January 1994 -
Cadres Consulting Engineers
7.    South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (a)
Dossier De Rehabilitation, Annexe Prixd'Ordre et Bases d'Evaluation
des Couts - January 1994 - Cadres Consulting Engineers
South Bekaa Irrigation Scheme Feasibility Study Volume (b)
Dossier De Rehabilitation, Dessins Types - January 1994 - Cadres
Consulting Engineers



- 148 -
Annex 18
Page 2 of 3
8.    Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment Study
Perimetre D'Irrigation Marirouba - Hrajel - February 1994 - BTD
9.    Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment Study -
Becharre Irrigation Scheme - February 1994 - BTD
10.   Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment Study -
Perimetre D'Irrigation Barouk - February 1994 - BTD
11.   Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment Study -
Perimetre D'Irrigation Ehden - February 1994 - BTD
12.   Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment Study -
Perimetre D'Irrigation Akkar - Atika - February 1994 - BTD
13.   Irrigation, Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment Study -
Perimetre D'Irrigation Faraiya - Mazraat Kfardebiane - February 1994 -
BTD
14.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Bekaa Caza De Zahle, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Aanjar
Chamaine, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
15.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Bekaa Caza De Zahle, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Chtaura
Taalabaya, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
16.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Bekaa Caza De Zahle, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Zahle Hawch Al
Omara Mouaalaka Chtaura Taalabaya, January 1994, Cadres Consulting
Engineers
17.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Bekaa Caza De Zahle, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Zahle Hawch Al
Omara Mouaalaka, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
18.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Caza De Baalbek, Perimetre D'Irrigation Quadi Nahle Maqne and
Surrounding Areas, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
19.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Caza De Baalbek, Perimetre D'Irrigation, Laboue QAA and
Surrounding Areas, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
20.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Initial Assessment,
Group C - Bekaa, Caza de Hermel, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Jroud El
Hermel II - Al Massateb, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers



- 149 -
Annex 18
Page 3 of 3
21.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment, Group C -
Bekaa Caza De Hermel, Perimetre D'Irrigation Do El Hermel, January 1994,
Cadres Consulting Engineers
22.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment, Group C -
Bekaa Caza De Baalbek, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Yahfoufa Torbol
Saraiin, January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers
23.   Irrigation Rehabilitation and Modernization Rapid Assessment, Group D -
Liban Sud Caza De Nabatieyh, Perimetre D'Irrigation De Nabatieyh,
January 1994, Cadres Consulting Engineers



CHART NO. I
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
DtRIGATION REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
COUNCIL OF MINISTERS|
F  MINISTRIES                                                                 C
, I   ,   I               I           I              |PROJECTS|  =;!            +        A ;~~~~~P
|INTEIOR| TELEOMS|    PUBLC |    FINANCE| |TASOTAGRICULTURE_|    HYDRAULIC &               II             I       I              I      J
WORKS                                                 ELECTRIC RESOURCES
| SIU     SIU11    SIU  |      I S IU   S    IU  Ir                                    L   RAL                    _          
SOLID WATES          RODS   BULINGSAROT
PORTS       GREEN   ARIL
L~-    ---------~.  -- -- ....
-                                    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........



*  -ns   o;                      \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~360
LEBANON
IRRIGATION REHABIUTATION AND                                                          53
MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                    7
WTERNATONAL HIiWAYS
PRIMARY HXIHWAYS                                                                    67Tnp
,,  k   *- i$-p; *X:>+ks > ^ /i|/ 4/        ( \a  D<nniye  IllS   iL4AEL FBMLL
-   PPEL                   C hk            >     LEBANON           5A   '                       )
A 236t ELEVATION POIS IN MEMEW ,
W  NfATEROOT........... ,,Uv 'zFflwS-  LEL      6       A H N   J3Orb9 
A,~~~~~~~
'~ W!EATEOQIUESR- gapJ
..  -  -.r"N3t.rS    -}N  6  z   -t        >    ~         r}r@f l3M]E-?ECh  <</k  s-2O26  A
1a                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,   oS u
g e --.>?@                          \ Zsh    ARIL~m relton  236A
*+,;    ,       )            ..                                                        MLE  0.           1      1
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
)                \.-,.-.I
Tyre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ $jA    >
)ET57t +E' P 4 plrO,i 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TYE               O ;?\,
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 5TbnnNa 
t  1t slNT\sEsL r !~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay
/   4B- /        94- rKIOEESO510 5 
 g;. _-*t _ > MILES O 6 10 15 ~~~rw



