Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF023036
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation and Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
and
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
Dated September 20, 1993
TF023036
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1993, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) 
of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan) and the COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND 
RECONSTRUCTION (the Recipient), a public authority established and operating under the 
laws of the Lebanese Republic pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 
1977, as the same may be amended from time to time.
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has 
requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, 
to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, 
in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of 
said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical 
assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
     (ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
    (iii)
Section 3.01;
     (iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
     (vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
    (vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
   (viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
     (ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the 
Grant pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank 
and the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting 
in its own capacity;
     (ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
    (iii)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (iv)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the 
Grant is credited;
     (vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;
    (vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; 
provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of 
the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
   (viii)
In Section 6.02 (b) the words "the Lebanese Republic" shall 
substitute the word "Guarantor"; and
   (ix)
In Section 6.02 (f) the words "the Lebanese Republic" shall 
substitute the words "the Borrower or the Guarantor".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
Page  3
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and 
"¥" mean the currency of Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of forty-five million yen (¥45,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may 
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, 
for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the 
Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 15, 1994, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative 
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the Recipient in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
     (ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  4
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as the representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Recipient:
Council for Development and Reconstruction
P.O. Box 116-5351
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
Cable address:
CDR, Tallet El-Seray
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of the Grant
Page  5
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice-President
Middle East and North Africa
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
By /s/ Al-Fadl Chalak
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to such Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in said Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
Consultants'
  45,000,000
100%
Services
Total
  45,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in the 
preparation of a proposed Irrigation Rehabilitation and Development Project (the 
proposed Project).
The Technical Assistance will consist of the provision of consultants' services 
with a view to:
(a)
Carrying out a damage assessment of the present operating condition of 
the irrigation systems in  various parts of the territory of the Lebanese Republic.
(b)
Assisting the Recipient in the preparation of tender documents for the 
procurement of goods and services to rehabilitate the irrigation systems under the 
proposed Project.
(c)
Assisting the Recipient in the preparation of a proposal to be submitted 
to the Administrator setting out (i) the supervision needs under the irrigation 
systems rehabili- tation component of the proposed Project; and (ii) a plan to carry 
out the engineering designs for the rehabilitation and modernization of existing water 
sources and distribution facilities and the extension of said facilities.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
The Recipient shall:
Page  6
(a)
Not later than September 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator an inception report setting out the Recipient's program to carry out the 
Technical Assistance.
(b)
Not later than November 30, 1993, prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comments a draft damage  assessment report and shall, 
after exchanging views with the Administrator, and taking into account the 
Administrator's comments on the draft report, furnish to the Administrator a final 
version of said report not later than December 31, 1993.
(c)
Not later than December 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comments draft tender documents for the procurement 
of the goods and services referred to under paragraph (b) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and shall, after exchanging views with the Administrator, and taking into 
account the Administrator's comments on the draft tender documents, furnish to the 
Administrator final versions of said documents not later than January 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 4
Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifi- cations, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
