Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6643-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
May 15, 1987
Industry Department
ThiMi document has a restricted disiribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its eont.nts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
US$1.0 - Ft 45.0
Ft 1.0 - US$0.0222
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBP:EVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BME       -   Technical University of Budupest
CMEA      -   Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DRC       -   Domestic Resource Cost
FPM       -   Food Processing Machinery
FRG       -   Federal Republic of Germany
GATT      -   General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GDR       -   German Democratic Republic
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
ISO       -   International Standards Organization
KERMi     -   Institute of Trade Certification
MEFI      -   Development Institute tor Agricultural Machinety
MIS       -   Management Information Systems
MOI       -   Ministry of Industry
NBU       -   National Bank of Hungary
NPO       -   National Planning Office
RPO       -   Restructuring Program Office
R&D       -   Research and Development
SME       -   Small- and Medium-sized Enterprise
TFP       -   Total Factor Productivity



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY *o..........,....e,eoeee.e,....o.,        .  ll- v
I. INTRODUCTION *eo..o*.o.o ......,...........,.....,...              1
II. THE ECONOMY, THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, AND BANK INVOLVEMENT ....    2
A. Recent Macro-econom±.a Developments        .......................    2
B. Performance of the Industrial Sector .....................    4
C. Bank Industrial Assistance Strategy and Rationale
for Involvement o*...*e*.**.o.,.o*..**9*eoo*o*,  ..,..oo      5
D. Progress under the First Industrial Restructuring Project.    6
III. INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING STRATEGY ............................     7
A.  Overall Strategy ........,     ...............................    7
B. Progress of Industrial Policy Reform Progra  .............o o   7
C. Specific Restructuring Support ...........................   14
1. Rationalu for Assistance at Subsector/Enterprise Level.   14
2. Constraints and Strategies for Selected Subsectors ....   16
3. Feeder Industries Development                              18
IV. INSTITUTIONS AND ENTERPRISES INVOLVED IN THM  PROJECT .l......   19
V. THE PROJECT ............................,....,........    24
A. Project Objectives and Scope                                   24
B. Industry-wide Restructuring Component ....................   24
1. Swpecific Support for Industry-wide Restructuring ....s*    24
2. Support for Feeder Industries            ....               25
3. Technical Assistance and Related Services o....,.ooo.o.    25
(a) Specific Suprort for the Reform Program ...........   26
(b) Support for the Banking System ....*...............    26
(c) Studies ........       +@*¢¢v¢Xt*****e    27
C. Subsector Ristructuring Component ...o..o...............o .   28
1. Development of Technological Infrastructure ...........   28
2. Restructuring of Enterprises ..........................   29
3. Technical Assistance .......o.......o..*o....*o...........   31
D. Project Cost and Financing ..oo....o.oo.....o...0000...e..   31
VI* PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS  ........    35
A. Project Implementation Organization .*ooo......o..........   35
B. Onlending Arrangements and Criteria ......................   37
C, Procurement o                                                  39
D. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement *o...... 000....,e..     40
E. Reporting and Auditing ....o.....o..o.oo... o....s..... ,.o     42
F. Status of Project Preparation ......*......o...o..........*   43
Tths report was prepared by Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Harbaksh S. Sethi, Annie
Co:det-Dupouy, Abhay Deshpande, Christine Kessides, V.N. Rajagopalan and
Hiran Herat.
This document has a stod ditrdbution and may be used by reipients only in te pedfonnmano
of their ofcl dutis. Its contents may not otherwbe be diced without Wodd Bank authorizaon.



{ i -
Page No.
VlIo BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT ....*..*.*    eee. eee.. e.e,.e.,    43
A. Impact of Industrial Policy Reform Program *..............   43
B. Impact of Specific Restructuring Measures o..............    44
C. Major Risks  **********************.*O**..e**...  45
VIII. AGREEMENTS ............. .                                       46
ANNEXES
3-1 Draft Update to Letter of Industrial Policy Intent
(including List of Actions Taken in 1986 and Summary
of 1987 Actions) .*..e....................o....,.....    49
3-2  Background, Constraints and Strategy for Selected Subsectors   69
A. Rubber Processing  U..o...e... o oo...............,........o  69
B. Agricultural Machinery ...................o..o.o...... @0  75
C. Food Processing Machinery ...............................   81
3-3  Background on Feeder Industries ...*.o.*. o*o*. *oo...e... .**.   87
4-1  NBH Financial Statements   o                                    91
4-2  Background on Intermediary Banks ...........................   93
4-3  Background on Subsectors' Main Enterprises .oo.o.oo.o.oo.o.o  110
A. Rubber Processing ooo.ooo.o.oo...o.......  fio0.o   110
B. Agricultural Machinery ........................... 0....    113
C. Food Processing Machinery eo*o****9o*9ooo#.o....o ooo.o.o  118
5-1  Terms of Reference for Feeder Industries Study ............   122
5-2  Details on Support for the Banking System ..................  127
5-3  Details on Restructuring Programs of Main Enterprises ..ooo.  134
A. Rubber Processing ooo....................0.00000.00...0.0 134
B. Agricultural Machinery *oooooo*.oo..o,ooo..oo.oo..,oo...o  136
C. Food Processing Machinery o.o....oo.ooo..................  140
5-4  Scope of Restructuring Programs for Subsector Enterprises .   144
6-1  Overall Project Implementation Schedule . ooooo**oooeooo¢o  146
6-2  Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan                  147
8    Selected Documents Available in the Project File *...*......  148
MAP
IBRD - 20372 Location of Subsectors' Main Enterprises



- ili -
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         National Bank of Hungary (NBI).
Guarantor:        Hungarian People's Republic.
Beneficiaries:    Enterprises  and   institutes   in  rubber  processing,
agricultural machinery. food processing machinery and
plastics   processing   subsectors;   feeder   industry
enterprises   for  supply  of  parts  and  components;
Government of the Hungarian People's Republic; National
Bank of Hungary; and commercial banks.
Amount:           US$150 million equivalent.
Terms:            Fifteen years, including three years grace, at the Bank's
variable interest rate.
Onlending         US$42.6 million equivalent of the Bank loan will remain
Terms:          with NBH, of which US$40.0 million for Imports related to
industry-wide restructuring, and US$2.6 million for
technical assistance.   The remaining US$107.4 million
equivalent will be onlent on the following terms:
(a) US$102.4   million   equivalent   to   intermediary
commercial banks and other banks at an interest rate
equal to at least the Bank rate plus a 201 mark-up
for a maxiium period of 10 years, including a grace
period not exceeding 3 years, of which US$1.4 million
will remain with the banks for technical assistance,
and US$101.0 million will be onlent to commercial
subborrowers for eligible subprojects in selected
subsectors and feeder industry enterprises, including
US$2.0 million for technical assistaice, at an
interest rate which would allow adequate spread, be
positive in real terms and not include a subsidy, and
for a maximum period of 10 years including a grace
period not exceeding 3 years.
(b) US$5.0 million equivalent to the Government for
technical assistance for a period of 15 years,
including a grace period of 3 years at an interest
rate equil to at least the Bank rate plus a 201
mark-up.
NBH will  bear  the  foreign exchange  risk, while the
Government  and  the  comercial  banks  will  bear  the
interest rate risk on funds onlent to them.
Project
Description:    The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  support  the
restructuring of  Hungarian industry  to enable  it  to
achieve international competitiveness and increase the
potential for exports to convertible currency markets.
The Project has two major components:



- iv -
(a) Industry-wide  restructuring  component  to  support
imports of goods needed as a result of industry-wide
enterprise restructuring, a pilot program for the
development of feeder industries which produce parts,
components, and subassemblies for industry, and
specific technical assistance with regard to the
reform program, the banklng system, and studies; and
(b) Subsector restructuring component to support the
efficient and competitive development of rubber
processing, agricultural machinery, food processing
machinery   and   plastics   processing   subsectors,
including support for technological infrastructure,
enterprise restructuring, and technical assistance
for preparation, appraisal, and coordination of
enterprise restructuring programs.
Benefits and
Risks:          The  industrial  policy  reform  program  is expected  to
provide the conditions for efficient restructuring and
growth of the industrial sector by encouraging domestic
and   international   competition,   enhancing   efficient
resource mobility, and improving financial discipline and
contrul# The feeder industries component would help to
improve the structure of the industrial sector through
development of small- and medium-sized industries for
production of parts and components for which efficient
supply  is  constrained  at  present.       The  subsector
restructuring component will support enterprises in
rubber   processing,   agricultural   machinery,    food
processing machinery and plastics processing subsectors
to develop international competitiveness through changes
in strategies, structure, organization, management and
,hysical restructuring.   The main risk of the policy
reform   program   stems   from   continuing   unfavorable
macro-economic developments and an insufficient supply
response to the program, and likely related pressures to
slow down the reforms. The commitment of the Hungarian
authorities to redress the macro-economic imbalances, the
continuing strong support for the implementation of the
program, and the constructive policy dialogue between the
Bank and the Hungarian authorities on measures to improve
macro-economic performance as well as on the content and
implementation of the reform program, reduce this risk.
Further, the success of the feeder industries component
will  depend  on  the  extent  to  which  small-  and
medium-sized enterprises, which presently are scarce in
Hungary, will be established. The relatively small size
of this Project component in relation to overall needs
and  the  recent   policy  measures   which  facilitate
development   of   small   enterprises,   as   well   as
implementation of measures to be identified in a study on



-v
constraints of feeder industry development to be carried
out under the Project, should help to overcome this
constraint.   The main risk concerning the subsectoral
restructuring component concerns the further application
and spreading of the restructuring efforts throughout the
subsectors. Measures, including technical assistance, to
strengthen  the  Hungarian  institutional  capacity  to
prepare, appraise and implement restructuring projects
should help to alleviate this risk.   Such measures as
well as specific technical 4ssistance under the Project
will also reduce the risk related to the capacity of the
new   commercial   banks   to   act   as   satisfactory
intermediaries.
Estimated                                            Local 4/  Foreign  Total
Cost:                                               :-(US$ million) -
Industry-wide Restructuring
Restructuring Imports             3.2        40.0    43.2
Feeder Industries                69.2       54.1   123.3
Technical Assistance              2.0        8.5    10.5
Subtotal                      74.4      102.6   177o0
Subsector Restructuring
Technological Infrastructure      1.5         1.9     3.4
Enterprise Restructuring b/    119.4       104.0   223.4
Technical Assistance              0.5         2.5     3.0
Subtotal                     121.4      108.4   229.8
Total                        195.8      211.0   406.8
Financing
Plan:           IBRD                                 -        150.0   150.0
Government                          0.9         -       0.9
NBH                                 0.8         -       0.8
Commercial Banks                  102.7       61.Oc/ 163.7
Project Entities                   91.4         -      91.4
Total                        195.8      211.0   406.8
Estimated              IBRD FY  1988  1989  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Disbursements:                         ---------- (US$ million5)---
Annual       42.8  20.6  26.4   25.0   18.4   10.3    6.5
Cumulative   42.8  63.4  89.8  114.8  133.2  143.5  150.0
IBRD - 20372
a/ Including an estimated US$31.0 million of duties and taxes.
b/ Excluding plastics processing (para 5.20).
c/ Funds onlent by NBH to the commercial banks in local currency
equivalent.



HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01          Induetrial  restructuring  is  the centerpiece of Hungary's
mediumr-term structural adjustment program and is accordingly reflected as
one of the primary objectives of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90).  The
industrial restructuring program for 1986-90, developed with the Bank's
assistance, is the main vehicle to support the economic reform in Hungary
and to promote structural change of the Hungarian industry to enhance its
international competitiveness, growth and exports. The Government's letter
of policy intent dated May 6, 1986, which reflected the comprehensive
policy reform framework, and implementation of a number of key policy
measures within the program, served as the basis for the first Industrial
Restructuring Project (Loan 2700-HU) approved in May 1986.  Subsequently,
the Government continued implementation of additional significant actions
in 1986 and has committed itself to a package of coordinated actions to be
taken in 1987 and thereafter within the agreed policy reform framework.
The Government has requested continued Bank support and financing through
this proposed second Project, to help maintain the momentum of the reform
process and the restructuring of industry.
1.02         The proposed Project continues to support the strategy for
industrial restructuring in Hungary which combines the implementation of a
wide-ranging program of industrial policy reforms to create the necessary
economic conditions to encourage restructuring, and support specific
restructuring actions at the subsector/enterprise level to facilitate an
adequate supply response to the reforms.  In line with this strategy, the
proposed Project, as the first industrial restructuring project, will have
two mutually reinforcing components:   (i) an industry-wide restructuring
component which provides support for the policy reform measures, including
support for specific institution-building, as well as a pilot program for
development of industry-wide feeder industries to produce parts, component.
and subassemblies for industry; and (ii) a subsector restructuring
component to support the specific restructuring programs of the rubber
processing, agricultural machinery, food processing machinery and plastics
processing subsectors, including support for technological infrastructure
and enterprise restructuring.   The Project further supports measures to
strengthen the capabilities of Hungarian institutions to implement, monitor
and develop further the industrial restructuring program.
1.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million to the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH) would meet a part of the foreign exchange needs of the
Project, including US$98.5 milllon in support of the industry-wide
restructuring component and US$51.5 million in support of the subsector
restructuring component.   The Bank loan would cover about 56% of the
financing  requirement  of  the  industry-wide  component  estimated  at
US$177.0 million; and about 22% of the financing requirements of the
subsector restructuring component estimated at US$229.8 million.    The
remaining financing will be provided by NBH, by the local commercial banks,
by the participating entities, and by Government re3ources.
1.04      The proposed Project was appraised during missions in June/July
and October/November 1986, and involved members of various Divisions of the



-2-
Industry Department, and the EMENA Programs and IDF Divisions, as well as
several consultants.
II. THE ECONOMY, THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, AND BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. Recent Macro-economic Developments
2.01       Following a disappointing 1985 (negative GDP growth, 3X decline
in investment, and a current account deficit of about US$500 million),
economic performance worsened in 1986. The GDP grew by only 1.3X, and the
convertible currency current account deficit amounted to US$1.4 billion.
Much of the deterioration in the trade balance reflected a sustained
upsurge in manufactured imports in response to liberalization of import
regulations. The terms of trade also continued to work against Hungary, in
particular as a result of the decline in oil prices, which affected export
revenues more than import costs.1/ A severe drought and the effects of
the Chernobyl accident dealt further setbacks to the Hungarian economy.
These two factors contributed to a large decline in both the value and
volume of agricultural exports, while the current value of industrial
exports  basically  stugnated  at  the  1985  level.    The  continued poor
performance also reflects lax demand management, as illustrated by wage
increases in excess of productivity gains and by a widening of the budget
deficit to 4.3Z of GDP.   A further worrisome development has been the
growth of outstanding external debt (medium- and long-term) in convertible
currencies from US$7.4 billion at end-1984 to US$12.7 billion at end-1986;
some ofr the recent borrowing has improved the maturity structure and
average interest rate of the outstanding debt and has fed reserves now
amounting to over seven months of imports.
2.02        There were also some positive macro-economic developments in
1986.  Aggregate real gross fixed investment grew by 2.4%, halting a six
year decline, with a higher growth rate at the enterprise level. For the
second year in a row, imports of capital goods from the convertible
currency atea showed strong growth (8.5S), suggesting that much needed
investment in equipment and technology upgrading is under way and taat
import competition may be appearing in some sectors.
2.03      During 1986 the authorities took a number of measures to redress
the macro-economic imbalances.  The major steps consisted of:  increased
taxation of wage raises which exeeeded productivity gains; development of
restructuring plans for the largest loss-making enterprises and subsectors;
and a cumulative devaluation of the nominal effective exchange rate of the
forint by about 12% in line with the commitment of the authorities to an
active exchange rate policy. Further details of measures taken under the
economic policy reform program are provided in Chapter III.
2.04          In November 1986, the Central Committee of the Hungarian
Socialist Workers' Party reconfirmed its comitment to an acceleration of
the economic reform and to tighter demand management as essential to
restore growth with  structural  adjustment  and macro  stability.    The
authorities recognize that the economy must engineer a significant
1/ Hungar, j a oil imports from the CHEA area are priced according to a
five year lagged average of world market prices.



- 3 -
improvement in the external balance in 1987.  The Government has decided
that  the  current  account  deficit  in  1987  should  be  reduced  to
US$700-800 million from US$1,400 million in 1986.  To help realize this
objective, the Government has devalued -he forint in March by 8% in
relation to a basket of convertible currencies and revalued the forint in
relation to the ruble.   This &zetion, in addition to the aggregate 12%
devaluation effected in 1986, is expected to improve incentives for exports
to convertible currency markets. The Government has recently introduced a
rebate of 50% of the enterprise profits tax on exports to convertible
currency markets.
2.05      The Government is also taking measures to reduce domestic demand
significantly in 1987.   Planned targets of demand management for the
current year include:  (a) a decline in real wages of 3-4%; (b) more than
1% decline in private consumption; (c) a real decline in non-productive
investment; and (d) an increased rate of growth of consumer prices (minimum
9%).   To realize these targets,  austerity measures have already been
adopted, and further actions are being prepared, involving (a) a real
decline in spending for budgetary institutions, (b) a strict reduction in
budgetary support to loss-making enterprises; and (c) a reduction in
consumer and producer subsidies, These measures are designed to reduce the
budget deficit to no more than Ft 30 billion (2.6% of planned GDP), in
order to be consistent with the targeted reduction in the current account
deficit. This represents a significant cut as compared to the originally
approved budget deficit  of Pt 44 billion.    During negotiations,  the
Government indicated its intention to take additional measures as
necessary, if these steps prove to be inadequate in meeting the objective
of reducing the current account and budgetary deficits.
2.06        The Bank will closely wonitor the outturn of the Budget and
extra-b,udgetary accounts at regular intervals, giving particular attention
to components of the Budget which contain various forms of subsidies and
expenditure on loss-making enterprises (including support already agreed
for the largest loss-makers).   A CEM in 1987 will examine in depth the
program for medium-term adjustment which is currently under preparation by
the authorities, and will assess its implications in particular for public
financial management, pricing and trade policy. The Government's adherence
to a tight monetary and fiscal policy in support of the above objectives
for demand management, and sustained implementation of the reform program
as envisaged in the letter and attachment in Annex 3-1, should enable the
economy to regain much of the momentum lost in 1985/86 in the effort of
stabilization and structural adjustment.
2.07      The actions taken by the Government under the reform program to
date have not yet produced the desired supply response by enterprises for a
number of possible reasons. First, although a start has been mads towards
reducing the claims of loss-making enterprises on the Budget, as noted, the
continued availability of such support and of producer subsidies has
deterred the development of effective incentives for profitability and
efficiency. Second. the numerous regulatory changes introduced in 1986 in
an effort to correct the deteriorating macro-econoiic situation may have
created some uncertainty among enterprise managers regarding the intent and
future course of the reform. Third, it should be recognized that economic
reform is inevitably a medium-term process, and that not all of its
elements are yet in place or in full operation.   Starting in 1987, the



-4 -
implementation of the bankruptcy law and the decentralized banking system,
and the major tax reform planned for 1988, should have a significant effect
of removing the ambiguities and inconsistencies in the incentives
framework, and thereby encouraging the needed shifts in enterprise
behavior.
B. Performance of the Industrial Sector
2.08       Industry is the single largest sector in the Hungarian economy,
contributing about a third of GDP, employment and gross domeatic fixed
investment. It accounts for 90% of the total imports and 79% of its total
exports. After rapid growth and diversification up to the mid-1970s, its
performance has been unsatisfactory in the 1980s, with only a 2% average
annual growth and little structural change.   In 1985, industrial output
declined by 2.3%, in line with the decline of GDP*  In 1986, performance
improved somewhat with growth of 1.6%.
Table 2.1
Hungary - Data on the Industrial Sector, 1986 a/
GDP            Employment        Investment
Ft.       % of   '000       X of      Ft.       % of
Billion b/ Total  Persons   Total  Billion c/ Total
Mining                   42,892      15.7    118.2      7.7    13.0      19.1
Electric Energy          11,373      4.2      42.0     2.8    12*7       18.6
Metallurgy                9,588       3.5     90.0     5.9      5.2       7.7
Engineering              88,251     32.3    494.3    32.3    10.6        15.6
Building Materials       12,092      4.4      69.6     4.5      1.8       2.6
Chemicals                39,028     14.3    114.3      7*5      9.9      14.5
Light Industry           43,321      15.8    354.9    23.2      6.4       9.4
Rood Processing          21,367      7.8    207*4    13.5       8.2      12*0
Other                     5,611      2*0      40.1     2.6      0.3       0.5
Total              273,523    100.0  1,530.8   100.0    68e1       100l0
-   __  -  -    - - 
a/ Estimated.
b/ 1981 prices.
_c/ 1984 prices.
2.09      In connection with the preparation of the Seventh Five-year Plan
(1986-90), the Government undertook, jointly with the Bank, an extensive
analysis of the structure, performance, constraints and potential of the
industrial sector and of the policy and institutional framework within
which the sector haa operated.   The results are discussed in depth in a
separate report,) and have been summarized in the Staff Appraisal Report
of the first indust-Lal restructuring project (Report Noe 6069-HU, May
1986).   The analysis indicated that nearly three quarters of the sector
shows near or actual international competitiveness, with a domestic
2/   Hungary  -  Industrial  Policy,   Performance,   and  Prospects  for
Adjustment (Report No. 6124-HU, September 1986).



- 5 -
resource cost (DRC) level below 1.1. In particular, processing industries,
including machinery, engineering and light manufactur.ng, are largely
concentrated   in   the   competitive   and   near   competitive   category.
Productivity performance of the sector, however, has lagged and on average
fell short of international norms.
2.10          The joint analysis concluded that despite the intermittent
progress made since the reforms initiated in 1968 which terminated the
physical planning system and introduced a new system of economic planning
and management linked with markets, the policy environment within which
industrial enterprises operate has constrained the performance of the
sector.  The principal constraints to improved sectar performance are the
lack of adequate domestic and international competition, limited resource
mobility, and the lack of financial discipline and wea'i. autonomy of
enterprises, along with underdeveloped institutions and infrastructure to
support improved productivity.  The strategy to address these constraints
as well as the related policy reform program are discussed in Chapter III.
C. Bank Industrial Assistance Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
2,11       In Hungary, the Bank has supported four projects so far in the
industrial sector, of which the Industrial Energy Diversification and
Conservation Project (Loan 2317-HU), the Industrial Export Project
(Loan 2397-HU), and a Fine Chemicals Project (Loan 2511-HU) supported
enterprise-initiated investments with a potential for energy conservation
and  increasing coroiertible currency exports*   Their  implementation  is
proceeding  satisfactorily.   The First Industrial  Restructuring Project
(Loan 2700-HU) was approved on May 27, 1986 and became effective on
August 6,  1986.   Its implementation so far is briefly discussed below
(pars 2.15).
2.12      Lending to support industrial restructuring forms the core o. the
Bank's country assistance strategy, in view of the importance of improved
industrial performance for the achievement of overall economic growth and a
sustainable external balance  (para 2.01).   The Bank's involvement has
contributed to defining an overall etrategy for industrial restructuring.
The strategy includes a comprehensive five-year industrial policy reform
program aimed at improving efficiency through increased competition and
enhanced reliance on market forces and enterprise autonomy, in an
environment of tighter financial discipline.   As a part of the first
industrial   restructuring   project,   agreement   was   reached   on   the
implementation of a 1985-90 program of reforms affecting the industrial
sector  (para  3.02).   The  strategy  also  includes  parallel  actions  to
restructure industries which have potential international competitiveness.
The first project supports the restructuring of the plastics processing
subsector.
2.13        Related to the work on industrial restructuring, the Bank in
collaboration with Hungarian authorities, is undertaking (i) a study of the
financial sector, to be completed in FY88, which is analyzing means for
improving resource mobilization and allocation through development of
financial intexmediaries and indirect  instr-ments  of monetary  control;
(it) an export markets study to be completed in early FY88, which is
seeking to identify the iustitutional, procedural and policy obstacles to



-6-
exports, as a basis for a possible Bank operation; and (iii) a study of the
labor market, to be carried out in collaboration with the Hungarians,
scheduled in the ESW program for FY88/89.   The industrial  investment
program will also be reviewed in an Industrial Restructuring Strategy Paper
to be prepared in FY88.   The planned economic and sector work, and the
Bank's general dialogue with the Hungarian authoritiea on economic
management, would provide the means for: monitoring the progress of the
industrial reforms and economic performance.   This assessment would be
reflected in the scope and design of future operations.
2.14       Continued Bank involvement over the medium term is essential to
support and assist in deenening the reform program and in maintaining the
momentum of the reform process.   The Bank's involvement in the proposed
Project has contributed to developing a package of coordinated actions to
be taken in 1987 within the mediumrterm framework of the reform program.
It has also helped in the preparation of restructuring programs to
demonstrate in the selected subsectors the restructuring concepts as
applied to individual enterprises, and thereby promote their progressive
and wider application to the industrial sector as a whole.
D.  Progress Under the First Industrial Restructuring Proj,tL
2.15      The first industrial restructuring project, which is supported by
a US$100 million Bank loan, has two essential components:  (i) support for
policy reform measures undertaken by the Hungarian Government during the
course of 1985 through mid-1986, within an agreed framework for further
policy measures to be undertaken in 1986-90 in support of industrial
restructuring; and (ii) support for specific restructuring measures for the
plastics processing subsector.
2.16      Concerning the policy reform program, the Government has advanced
satisfactorily with the reforms, and has fulfilled its commitments in
respect of actions agreed for 1986 (para 3.03).   In support of program
development, satisfactory progress is being made on (i) the design of
specific industry-wide enterprise management training programs following a
detailed assessment of training needs; (ii) strengthening of the banking
system in the area of development of information systems at NBH and
commercial banks to support the implementation of the two-tier banking
system; and (iii) execution of further subsector restructuring studies by
international consultants, particularly for the vacuum technology and road
vehicle subsectors which will form the basis for future restructuring
ptograms  for  these  subsectors.    Further,  the  implementation  of  the
restructuring program for the plastics processing subsector has been
initiated. Five main subsector enterprises assisted by foreign consultants
have advanced with preparation and implementation of detailed organization
and management systems concepts as well as specific restructuring
investments. A number of other subsector enterprises have also developed
restructuring programs and have applied for support uneer the project.
Infrastructural facilities for the subsector are being strengthened with
the development of a mold-making facility which is being prepared as a
joint-venture with foreign partners, including IFC.
2.17       An early review of the implementation of the first project has
indicated the need to improve the understanding and application of the
restructurilg concept and approach by staff of the subsector enterprises,



-7-
the commercial banks (para 4.03), the Restructuring Program Office (RPO,
para 6.04) and the Ministry of Industry (MOI)o In this respect, necessary
steps have been taken as part of the preparation of the second Project to
strengthen the organization and staffing of RPO, as well as the training of
enterprise managements, RPO staff and commercial bank staff, in the
restructuring concept and methodology, and in developing, evaluating and
implementing restructuring strategies and programs (para 6.05). The early
experience with the first project has also underlined the need for a
well-functioning imple"entation organization in Hungary to follow-up and
coordinate the progress of the various components under the project, and
the need for substantial project supervision by Bank staff.
III. INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING STRATEGY
A. Overall Strategy
3.01       In line with the strategy developed under the first industrial
restructuring project, industrial restructuring in Hungary will involve:
Ui) resource allocation to change the structure of industrial production
and exports to ircrease the proportion of convertible currency exports by
emphasizing manufacture of products where Hungary has a dynamic comparative
advantage; (ii) improvement in the productivity and competitiveness of
existing production facilities through technological upgrading, production
rationalization, and organizational and managerial improvemeats; and
(iii) changes in the behavior and motivation of economic entities to
enhance flexibility, dynamism, and responsiveness to market developments.
The medium-term strategy for restructuring of the industrial sector
combines an industrial policy reform program and a program of specific
restructuring measures and actions, including investments.   The overall
strategy, therefore, is for the industrial policy reform program to create
the necessary economic conditions that encourage restructuring and enhance
efficiency, and for the specific measures to facilitate and expedite an
adequate supply response to the policy reforms.
B. Progress of Industrial Policy Reform Program
3.02        The objectives, main components, and medium-term timetable for
the industrial policy reform program are outlined in detail in the Staff
Appraisnl Report for the first Induetrial Restructuring Project (Report
No. 6069-HU, dated May 7, 1986). Since the date of the Board's approval of
the first industrial restructuring project, the Government of iaagary has
continued to implement the reform program in accordance with its intentions
as expressed in the Letter of Intent and the Policy Matrix submitted to the
Bank under that project.   An update to the Letter of Industrial Policy
Intent from the Hungarian Governor for the World Bank addressed to the Bank
management, is attached in Annex 3-1. This letter explains the evolution
of  the  reform  program,  in  the  context  of  recent  macro-economic
developments, and efforts to strengthen macro-economic performance.   The
letter confirms the Government's commitment, as expressed in the original
Letter of Intent, to maintain a sound macro-economic framework which is
conducive to progress of the reform, and to deepen and extend the reform
program over the remainder of the present decade to reflect experience and
evolving priorities.



- 8 -
3.03      Actions taken under the program in 1986 (since Board presentation
of the first project) as well as actions planned to be implemented in 1987
are also listed in Annex 3-1.   Th.e salient elements which have been
implemented in 1986/87, and the actions planned for 1987/88, are discussed
below. An overview of the reform program, including its main objectives,
actions taken to date and actions planned for 1987/88, is given on the next
page. Arrangements for the implementation of this program within Hungary,
and for monitoring of its progress by the Bank, are outlined in para 6.02.
3.04      While all 11 areas of the policy reform program are essential to
the full success of industrial restructuring, and all are highly
interrelated, some specific areas merit special emphasis at this tise.
The Hungarian authorities recognize the critical importance and potential
leverage  of  progress  in  these  areas.    They  include:    (a)  actual
implementation of the liquidation law, aad the associated refloatation
framework, enacted in 1986; (b) putting into operation of the new
competitive two-tier commercial banking system, and implementation of an
appropriate monetary policy to permit indirect regulation of the system;
(c) preparation of the tax refcrm (introduction of a value added tax and
personal income tax) to be in place in January 1988; this effort includes
related revisions in other aspects of taxation, and in pricing and wage
regulations;  and  (d)  reform  of  enterprise  accounting  and  information
disclosure practices.  Accelerated progress in these four areas has been
identified as critical to major achievement in other components of the
policy reform program.  The main performance indicators, or yardsticks for
achievement, which will be observed in the process of monitoring the policy
reform program in 1987, are noted below.
3.05          Entry of Enterprises.   Important amendments to the law of
corporate  association have been enacted  as  of  January  1,  1987,  thus
facilitating the formation of various forms of economic association
including joint stock company, limited liability company, joint venture and
deposit company.   The new amendments will permit legal persons,  i.e.,
enterprises and cooperatives, to establish joint stock and limited
liability companies merely by registration at the registration court,
rather than requiring approval of the Council of Ministers as under the
former regulation. The changes facilitate competition through entry by new
forms of association, and create necessary, though not sufficient,
conditions for the development of a share market.  Preparations are unler
way for the introduction of a new law on corporate association in early
1989 which would address the issues of permitting state enterprises to
convert themselves wholly into share companies, and of permitting
individuals (non-legal entities) to form limited liability companies and to
hold some form of negotiable shares. The principles of this new law will
be formulated and presented for approval to the Council of Ministers by
December 1987.
3.06           To encourage  the development  of  small- and medium-sized
enterprises (S%Es) and creation of subsidiaries, the package of incentive
and promotional measures introduced for 1986 has been extended indefinitely
and now is available to all of the new forms of associations.   Ongoing
studies of the effectiveness of these measures In providing support to SMEs
and in promoting entry will be completed in 1987, and modifications or new
measures will be introduced accordingly in conjunction with the tax reform



Teblb 3.1
tunrY  - Industrial Policy te1form Prorem;  SaIent £leents
Pot icy Area          Objectives                      notlons Talon to Ots                     tbtorm Program, 1987/8                    By t990 -
Entry of     Encourage domestic comti-  Aended legislation for corporate asset.-  Now legislation for expnoded rights of Nach larger role for SMiEs
tntorpri es  tion by reducing barriers to tlon to fecillitte creation of More epa- orporteo association preparod for             Including private enter-
entry end to structural      nies, limited liability comanies, etc.    enectasat In InS. further muros   prises; wider use of shtre-
concentratlon of Industrial  tVasures to prote creIon and growth of to promot croetlon and growth of Sit  holding form of essoclatlon
production,                  Sits end first phaae dwcentrallastion of   lplemonted. Enterprlse derortrliza- (inci. by Individuals).
stato enterprises Isplemnted.               tlon program continued Into  econd
.    .                                                   )bot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pae.                         _.    
Liquidation  Increase mobility of produw- Legls.dtion 4or ;l4uldstion, Initleted by   iplemntation of liquidation proceed- Practico  of liquidation end
of           tiva resources by  acil1tet- creditors or mnterplse, onacted. Abtrue- Ings. Ristructuring cepacity doeel-  Institutional capacity for
fnterprites  Ing liquidatlon of nonvleble turing of viable troubled enterprises   i- o_ped.  Information system  n enter-   restructuring In place.
enterprises.                  ltafed. Pubbication of financlal data on   prIme creditwrthiness Initiated.
enterprIses Initlited.
Inter-       Enhonce incentives end caps- iasues for export pronotlon Including         Further devlopmnt of export preoo-   Autotic fr*e  trade status
national     city for exports.  Increose  automtic duty draw(.ack, tax benefits,        tion meaures. Toriffs further            for exptors. Rational tzed
Trade        Iaport cIetition end oo- prfoerntlal access to Invotment credit   rationallted based on effective pro-   tariff structure  lth tsoer
petition In foreign trading  Introduced.  NIolnel tariffs reduced to    tection.  Strengthening of promotion   averae  rate. Coampotitive
activity,                    averere of 16.1l.  Quantitative   pot         of Import competition. TA and train-  foreIgn trading sacTor
rostrictions renoved.  Program to promote  Ing in ftrolgn trading skills provided achieved.
lmport  omtition lplemnted.  Coepti-  for enterprises.
tIon In trod lag encouraged through oboll-
tin of restrictions, autowtic grenting of
export and Imort rights, promotion of
treding hous", etc. Rabl effective
exchange rate devalued.
Pricing      Promeoe mrket-besed  Ilioca- Cost-plus pricIng and export profitoblllty  incresing exemption from Export Pric- Export Pricing Rule obol-
tion of resources through    rules abolished. Competitive prielng sye-  Ing Rule. Nodifications of price pol- lshed. governmant agencIes
deregulatlon a' pricing.    ta  anndod. mabaship of Price Club             icy In line wIth preparation Of ta    regulate Imperfect markets,
increasd,                                    refrm.  Implntatlon of program to  not pricing.
move govern_nt agenclos a     from
prico regulatlon towrds rogulation of
lmperfect morkets.
Taxation    RWduce and rationallie txA- Structural changes In enterprIso  taxation.  Ovelopmant end Implementation of pro- Greater  unIfolty of taxes,
tion of enterprises to        All subsectoral ta  exemptions abolished.  grams to Introduce income tax end VAT  lowar tax burden end is-
remov  distortions In ineon- Accumulation tox reduced for priority         In 19S8.                                proved financall onvironment
tives and enhonce profit    Investments. Preparations begun for Int.o-                                             for officlent enterprises.
motivation.                  dutlon of VAT and prsonal Income tax.                                                 If approved, Institution of
Wspronal Income tax & VAT.
eDiffer- Promote greater wae difer- Coerag  of wag  level taxation expended.   Further Increose In nua er of enter- ttore fluid labor  bII Ity
*stiation    Sntiation reflecting differ- State suprt for retrainIng enlarged            prie  covered under we  level taxo- and vgo differentiation
and Worktr  ences In labor productivity; Ihuapleoynt compensation  egislated.           tIon. Strengthening of workor            based on productivity
robilty    Increase laor mobility                                                     retraining proaen.  gO  level tesx- achieved.
mcordingly,                                                               tIon replaced by personal income tax.
Copitel      Olversity end  trengthen      Bond _rket established; legal framowor    implementation of program to                A deopened cepital market
Ibrkets      capItal structu   of  nter-  for equities davaloped; secondary trading   strengthon pirlmry and secondary          with greater cholce of
prise  through development  of  qulity secwIties initIated.                security (debt and equity) markets,   financial Instrauents In
of financial Instruwtcs for                                                and supporting Institutions.  Itpove- place.
efficient capital subility,                                                sont, In accounting end auditing
Introduced.
flanking     Inreasse offcielncy In ol-  Banking reform Implemented with crestlon of Creoatien of Interbonk end *ony ow-   Teo-tier, competitive end
Sytem       location of financial re-    Indepeandnt, ompeting comrelai banks.   kot. nd open markot operations; Into- diversifid banking sector
soures through competition  Wow finsuclel Institulions (banks with for- gration of household and enterprise    In plome suppleonted by
and profIt orientation In   sIgn participation, Innovation bonks, etc.) banking system.                            requisite Indirect lnstru-
banking, and ae of Indirect ostablilsd.  IndIrect Instruments of me                                                ents of snnotery control.
Instrumnta of monery om- twry control Initiated.
trol.
Enterpose    rts autonmy of docision- Wbw lgislotlon to transfer autoomay to             Implementation of now  nagemont sy-  Avtonowous state Industrlai
Monagement  making end market orients-  enterprise managont onacbtd. nt1  system  tem continued In lIne with decentrol 1- enterprise atceOr.
tion aeong enterprises.       lmplomntd In two thirds of stote entor-   zatlon program.  Implantatlon of
pr IlwS.                                     programs for menegembt development
and tralaing and systematic provision
of financIal InformatIon,
Olrect       Improve Institutional end    Tox Incentives laproved; Jolnt venturt        Implementation of masus to encour-  Increaetd direct for Iqn
YoreIgn      Incentive frsmork for         approval procs  streamllnd.  Sulected        ag  direct foreign Invesftmnt; revl-  investment wIth ettndant
Invsdtomat  direct f*oign Investment,   activities promotd with special Inoen-          slon of loegl end administrative        beeftits of flow of capItal,
tives.   ilateral trties for Investment   frauork In contev  of tax refom  end tochnology end _Maketing/
prfotlon end protection signd.               preparation of now low on corpate    manaemnt know-how.
ass clatlon.
Technology   Improve Infrestructe end   Existing Innovatlon-finanoing Inttitutilons  Implemntation of tchnology deveop- Narroulng technologicel gaP
tovelopnt  support for Innovation end   strengthened end mw aos established.            omnt infratructure, OM  prealr  and relative to lndustriel led
technology devolopnt.         Technology policy concept and framwork tor  easur  to strengthen market orientr- countrios basd on market-
1986-90 completed.                           tion In RW. Strengthening  nd pro- orieated ROME.
motion of Innovttlon-fln ncIng, tch-
nology, consulting and Infrtion
servleas.



- 10 -
(para 3.14).  The fIrst phase of the program to decentralize enterprises
currently under state management has been completed in 1986.  The second
phase, by which more of the remaining state enterprises will be
decentralized and transferred to the autonomous management system, will be
defined  by  September  1987  along  with  a  specific  timetable  for
implementation.
3.07      Liquidation of Enterprises.  The legal framework for liquidation
of insolvent enterprises was enacted in October 1986, together with the
establishment of a Refloatation Organization to provide for restructuring
assistance in exceptional cases to enterprises deemed economically
salvageable.   The stages of the liquidation/refloatation proceedings as
specified  in  the  law are given in Annex  3-1,   To prevent  sectoral
ministries from making financial interventions in enterprises with
impending financial crises before insolvency is determined (i.e., outside
the framework of the liquidation law), the framework provides that approval
of the Council of Ministers is required for any such interventions and will
only be granted on an exceptional basis.  As of March 1987, liquidation
proceedings had been initiated by creditors against the first large
enterprise (with more than 3,000 employees) , in which case the Government
so far has not decided to rescue the firm through refloatation.
3.08       Regarding the 26 large- and medium-sized enterprises which had
been identified on the basis of 1985 financial results ab being in critical
financial straits, financial settlements had been made for all but four
enterprises by end-1986.  In the cases of enterprises in coal-mining and
metallurgy, for  ,'Aich subsectoral restructuring plans have been put in
place, and for eaLerprises refloated with state assistance and implementing
restructuring programs, the authorities have undertaken to monitor these
programs and to assess  compliance with  refloatation agreements.    The
effectiveness of the restructuring agreements, particularly in the
coal-mining and metallurgy saubsectors where long-term economic viability is
problematic, will be reviewed by the authorities as well, beginning in the
second half of 1987.  The Government has confirmed that the commitments
already made for central financial support to the loss-making enterprises
will not be exceeded and that future settlements of loss-making enterprises
will take place withir, the new liquidation framework (para 3.07).
3.09      To encourage surveillance of enterprises' financial situation by
the new banking system and other interested parties, a decree requiring
enterprises to disclose certain financial data was introduced in 1986. An
information system on the creditworthiness of enterprises will be initiated
by July 1987.
3.10       International Trade.  Besides a flexible exchange rate policy,
the programs introduced in 1986 to promote exports and import competition,
reform the tariff structure, and liberalize trading activities have made
progress. The import competition program based on competitive bidding has
been under way as of July 1986. Based on the early experiences under the
export promotion program, the incentives offered for investment in export
development have been strengthened, with the result that interest of
enterprises in the program has increased significantly. The duty drawback



- 11 -
system has been simplified and rendered automatic.  The overall impact of
taxes and other policies on the incentives to export is being assessed in
1987 in the context of preparations for the tax reform. Together with the
results of an export market study under way with Bank financing (to be
completed by October 1987), this assessment will help identify any
additional export promotion measures which would need to be introduced
beginning in the first semester of 1988.
3.11      The Government has been exercising an active exchange rate policy
to improve the competitiveness of tradeable activities, as envisaged in the
Letter of Intent (para 3.02). The authorities also took special measures
after the 1986 devaluations to prevent the prices of exportables on the
domestic and CMEA markets from rising commensurately with the rise in
forint prices of convertible currency exports; this action is intended to
ensure an increase in the relative profitability of convertible currency
sales and thereby encourage the desired shift in resources to that market.
To maintain the effectiveness of the exchange rate as a tool for resource
allocation and balance of payments management, progress will be essential
in tightening financial discipline within enterprises vnd fostering
competition as a check on domestic price movements.   The lovernment's
letter to Bank management (Annex 3-1) confirms that this is the
authorities' intention.
3.12      In accordance with agreements under the GATT, the nominal average
tariff level has been lowered to 16.1% in 1987 and the structure of tariffs
is being rationalized. Further modifications will be made on the basis of
an ongoing study of effective rates of protection to be completed in the
first quarter of 1988.   The functioning and effectiveness  of the new
trading houses was assessed in the first quarter of 1987 and as a result,
the establishment of additional multi-function trading houses is being
actively  encouraged.    Technical  assistance  to  help  enterprises  take
advantage of the new access to trading rights granted in 1986 is being
provided.
3.13          Pricing of Industrial Products.   Exemptions of individual
enterprises from the export pricing rule 3/in 1986 raised the share of
manufacturing output which is free from administered pricing to about 55%
as of end-1986. The export pricing rule was abolished in March 1987, three
years earlier than anticipated in the Matrix, because it was felt that the
rule limited the  effectiveness  of  devaluations.    The authorities  are
undertaking an active search for alternative approaches to influencing the
pricing behavior of enterprises that will continue, for the foreseeable
futjre,  to  operate  in  highly  concentrated  markets.    Some  of  these
alternative approaches would be iaplemented along with the introduction of
3/   The export pricing rule required exporting enterprises to limit price
increases for their domestic sales to no greater than the price
increases realized on their convertible currency exports.



- 12 -
the proposed value-added tax in January 1988 (para 3.14).  In a related
effort, a study to identify measures to transform the function and capacity
of government agencies from price regulation to. regulation of imperfect
markets is well under way; its recommendations will begin to be implemented
in 1988.
3.14       Taxation.  In February 1987, the Council of Ministers approved
the principles and action plan for the introduction of the tax reform
(value-added tax (VAT) and personal income tax) by January 1988. Technical
assistance from the IMP has been obtained for this task.   The necessary
legislation will then be put before the Central Committee in June 1987, and
after its approval, would be submitted to Parliament in the second half of
the year.   The authorities have indicated their intention to take the
opportunity of the tax reform to rationalize and streamline the related
regulatiins  of  pricing,  wages,  and  corporate  income  taxation,    The
necessary modifications in these policies, which would be aimed at reducing
the burden of taxation on enterprises to enhance their profit orientation
and increase tax neutrality, are being prepared in 1987 and implementation
will begin in January 1988.  The implementation of the tax reform is an
important step in facilitating progress in other areas of the policy
program, in particular concerning integration of the household and
enterprise banking system, and direct foreign investment.
3.15       Wage Differentiation and Worker Mobility.   The scheme of wage
level taxation, introduced in 1985 as a transitional step towards the
application of a personal income tax, was extended to 65X of industrial
enterprises  in  1986.   Supplementary  taxation of  increases  in average
earnings will be maintained in 1987 to curb the trend of excessive wage
increases observed in 1985/86; however, the main safeguard against such
increases is intended to be the measures to enforce penalties for financial
indiscipline by the firm, supported by tighter monetary and fiscal policy.
From January 1987, the earnings regulation schemes have been modified to
strengthen the relation between earnings and performance, and to promote
the release of inefficient labor, pending the introduction of the personal
income tax.
3.16       In 1986, a measure to compensate workers released as a result of
restructuring or liquidation was introduced in connection with the
bankruptcy  law.    The program  to provide  support  for  retraining was
considerably expanded in 1986; further development is planned in 1987/88
based on the results of an ongoiig study of alternative institutional
arrangements for organizing and financing such retraining. A study of the
labor market, to be carried out in collaboration with the Hungarians, is
scheduled in the ESW program for FY88-89.
3.17        Capital Market.  The issues of bonds to households more than
doubled in amount in 1986, with total outstanding issues reaching
Pt 8.4 billion for the year. The precedent has been established for the
granting of a State guarantee of household bonds only for a fee which would
vary with the issuer's creditworthiness. Additional measures to strengthen
the bond market, including by integrating household and enterprise bond
issues, establishing a system for the exchange of bond price information,
and requiring uniform disclosure of financial information by issuers, are



- 13 -
being prepared in the first half of 1987 in conjunction with work on the
tax reform (para 3.14).
3.18        The regulatory framework f or equities and other securities is
also being developed during 1987 taking account of the amended law on
association (para 3.05) and the planned changes in the tax system
(para 3.14). A prerequisite to growth of the capital market is the further
development of accounting and auditing practices in Hungary, to make them
more effective in valuing the capital assets of the firm and providing
useful information on enterprise performance for managers and potential
investors. A ministerial decree is under preparation, and expected to be
issued by July 1987, to permit the necessary modifications in accounting,
as well as training and institutional requirements, to be implemented in
January 1988.
3.19      Banking System.  A competitive, two-tier banking system has come
into operation as of January 1, 1987, marking a major step forward in the
economic reform. The three new commercial banks, formed from the previous
credit sections of the National Bank of Hungary and the State Development
Bank, have been established as joint stock companies. An important feature
of the new banks is their mandate to compete with each other in all
sectors. The instruments of monetary policy governing the commercial banks
(so far consisting mainly of reserve requirements, refinancing and
rediscounting, and freely set interest rates linked only to the central
bank's refinancing rate) have been established.  However, individuals are
not as yet permitted to open accounts in the new commercial banks, but only
in the National Savings Bank and savings cooperatives. The functioning of
the new banking system will be assessed by December 1987, and an action
plan will be developed on that basis regarding the further development of
the banking system, in particular through integration of the household and
enterprise banking services and creation of an interbank and money market.
A study * the financial markets being undertaken jointly by Government and
the Bank will be completed in the fourth quarter of 1987 and its
recommendations will contribute to the identification of additional
measures for the development of the banking system and the capital market
in 1988-90. A proposal is also being elaborated in the first half of 1987
for the development  of training for staff of the banking system and
securities market.
3.20      Enterprise Management System.  As of end-1986, about 80% of state
enterprises in industry were functioning under the autonomous management
system (i.e., with an enterprise council or assembly).   The authorities
intend to decide by September 1987 on a schedule for transferring the
remaining state enterprises to autonomous management by 1990, with some
exceptions such as utilities.   Training courses have been organized for
members of the new management bodies. The effectiveness of the enterprise
management system is being evaluated continuously, and further measures to
improve it are being identified,   One issue which has already become
apparent is the insufficient orientation of enterprise managers and workers
to the accumulation of profits and property value by the firm. To increase
this "wealth interest" (in effect, the Interest of ownership, which is
still vested in society at large in the case of state enterprises),
issuance of security-like instruments by some enterprises to their



- 14 -
employees is expected by mid-1987 on an experimental basis. Other means of
contributing to this objective could be for existing state enterprises to
issue shares to other economic entities, which is already legally
permissible but has not been put into practice.
3.21       Direct Foreign Investment.  Improvements in the framework and
processes related to direct foreign investment implemented under the reform
program have begun to yield positive results. Nineteen new joint ventures
with foreign investors were approved in 1986, bringing the total to 68 by
the end of that year.   About half of the joint ventures are in the
production sector, and the remainder in tourism, banking, consulting and
other fields; around ten are in preferred areas (tourism, microelectronics,
biotechnology, food processing, selected background industries).  Hungary
has signed bilateral treaties for promotion and protection of foreign
investment with the Federal Republic of Germany, Belgium, and the UK, and
is negotiating with other countries. The existing framework of measures to
promore direct foreign investment is being evaluated during 1987 and
further promotional activities are to be introduced thereafter.
3.22         Technology Development.   In 1986, implementation began for
national and sectoral programs of research and development, and for a
program in selected areas of technology development infrastructure (e.g.,
computer-based information systems). To strengthen the market orientation
of R&D investments, changes were introduced to increase the share of
industries' own contributions to state-assisted research programs, to
introduce repayment terms for state support for R&D investment, and to
augment the resources and the role of the innovation finance institutions.
The effectiveness of measures for promoting technology development will
continue to be assessed during 1987, with particular regard to the growth
of engineering and consulting firms and the recognition of intellectual
property (e.g., patents) in the valuation of assets.
C. Specific Restructuring Support
1. Rationale for Assistance at Subsector/Enterprise Level
3.23      In addition to the industrial policy reform program (para 3.02),
the Government's industrial restructuring strategy includes support for the
development and implementation of specific restructuring programs for
selected subsectors and industry-wide support activities, and to provide
models for the restructuring of other subsectors and activities.   The
Project would support the development and implementation of subsectoral
restructuring programs which emphasize specific measures at the subsector
and  enterprise  level  aimed  at  developing  sustained  international
competitiveness through addressing issues such as reorientation of
product/market strategy, strengthening of structure, organization and
management capabilities, and upgrading of technology and production
facilities.   All these aspects are aimed at developing management and
enterprise capacity to respond to the challenge of increasing international
competition.   Bank assistance for restructuring of selected subsectors
addresses the critical need for infrastructural and "software" measures
required  to  develop  that  capacity  and  for  physical  restructuring
investments to generate a sufficient supply response.  The Project would



- 15 -
further support the industry-wide development of small- and medium-sized
feeder (background) industries to help improve the structure of the
industrial sector and strengthen the efficient supply of parts and
components (para 3.29).
3.24      The selection of subsectors for which restructuring programs have
been developed under the Project is based on an analysis of their potential
comparative advantage.  In the industrial sector work carried out jointly
by the Bank and the Hungarian authorities (para 2.09), some 60
manufacturing  subsectors  were  analyzed  concerning  their  potential
competitiveness  and productivity performance.   Further the Ministry of
Industry (MOI) has carried out specific techno-economic analyses of about
15 subsectors 4/ to identify the potential, constraints and restructuring
requirements of these subsectors.
3.25       Under the first industrial restructuring project, the plastics
processing subsector was selected as a model for the measures that could be
taken to improve the efficiency of the enterprises in that subsector. The
plastics processing subsector, for which a detailed anal:,sis was carried
out under the first project, will also be eligible for financing under this
Project.   The Bank's involvement in the second Project will help to
imple.-aent restructuring programs for three additional subsectors - rubber
processing, agricultural machinery, and food processing machinery to
accelerate the restructuring in the sector at large.   The joint sector
analysis (para 3.24) indicated that these subsectors have a potential
comparative advantage with domestic resource cost (DRC) ratios between 0.9
and 1.10, but that productivity was lagging with total factor productivity
growth  below  1% per year  since  1981.    The  analysis  underlines  the
importance of restructuring of the subsectors to improve productivity
performance. Other factors that played an important role in the selection
of the three subsectors include: (i) Their potential for growth in direct
and indirect exports.   The Hungarian rubber industry has been a net
expor.er, especially to the convertible currency markets, and has strong
potential for increasing these exports.  Further, about 60-70% of rubber
products made in Hungary are used by the transportation industry, which is
the largest export industry and which has sound prospects for further
growth.   The agricultural and food processing machinery subsectors have
potential for increased exports to convertible currency markets, as shown
by their cooperation agreements with Western firms and exports of
processing lines (Annex 3-2), provided their product technology is upgraded
to match innovations and quality in the Western markets; (ii) Their
important role as "supplier industry" to other subsectors: rubber products
to the transportation sector, and agricultural and food processing
machinery subsectors to the agriculture and food processing sectors
respectively; (iii) The fragmented nature of the subsectors which provides
room for development: of small- and medium-sized competitors with strong
specialization in selected product groups, parts, and components for the
subsectors; (iv) The need for updating of product technology and for
acquiring new production technologies to retain or enhance international
competitiveness; and (v) The diversified structure of each subsector which
4/   These include among others:  plastics processing, rubber processing,
agricultural  and  food  processing  machinery,  vacuum  technology
products, road vehicles, and machine tools.



- 16 -
allows for restructuring of a variety of enterprises as a demonstration for
other subsectors, including very large enterprises, either specialized
(e.g., Taurus in rubber processing) or active in several subsectors (eog.,
Raba in agricultural machinery), medium-sized enterprises (e.g., Szolnok,
Kecskemet and Elgep in agricultural and food processing machinery), and a
large  number  of  small  enterprises.    The  subsequent  discussions  on
constraints that affect the performance of the three subsectors and the
proposed restructuring strategies illustrate the range of actions to be
implemented for restructuring of the industrial sector.
2. Constraints and Strategies for Selected Subsectors
3.26        During the post-war period, the three subsectors selected, in
addition to the plastics processing subsector (para 4.10),5/ for specific
support under the Project - rubber processing, agricultural machinery, and
food processing machinery - realized a relatively high level of
diversification and technological development.   In the 1960s, a large
degree of concentration of enterprises' in the three subsectors took
place. For the agricultural and food processing machinery subsectors this
led to the consolidation of many small- to medium-sized manufacturing
plants under the central control of the Mezogep Trust, Also a large number
of rubber processing enterprises were integrated into a large enterprise,
Taurus.   The subsequent reforms started in 1968 were intended to improve
the economic conditions required for market-oriented adjustments in
industry.   In order to promote enterprise competition, many large state
enterprises were broken up as was also the case with the Mezogep Trust
which in early 1985 was decentralized into several independent state
enterprises. Some enterprises like Taurus remained integrated due to their
satisfactory performance in the domestic and international environment.
The economic systems prevailing in the post-war era did not provide an
economic environment necessary for the competitive development of the three
subsectors and has constrained their performance adversely. Details on the
structure, performance, and constraints of the three subsectors are
provided in Annex 3-2.
3.27      Performance of the subsectors has been adversely affected by the
following main constraints which have resulted in inadequate rates of
productivity growth and a deteriorating competitiveness:
(a) Structure of Subsectors, Most enterprises in the subsectors lack
sufficient specialization, with subsector activities representing
only a minor part of overall enterprise activities. Further, the
size of a large number of enterprises is too small to capture
economies   of   scale,   thereby   limiting   efficiency   and
profitability.
(b)  Marketing  Orientation.      The  limited  domestic  and  import
competition has resulted in little attention being given to the
adoption of competitive products and market strategies for
5/   Constraints and strategy for the plastics processing subsector are
discussed in the Staff Appraisal Report of the first Industrial
Restructuring Project (Report No. 6069-HU, May 1986).



- 17 -
local and export markets.   This has also been eaused by the
orientation of some subsector activities on the less-demanding
CMEA markets (particularly for food processing machinery), and
the traditional dependence of enterprises on foreign and domestic
trade organizations with the result that enterprises served as
"#order takers". The limited dissemination of information on new
products,  technologies   and  markets  outside  Hungary  also
contributed to the lack of market and client orientation, and
constrained  the  development  of  innovative  and  aggressive
marketing to meet foreign and domestic competition.
(c)  Management Development.   The development of a more competitive
business environment under the economic reform program, with the
related decentralization of the enterprise management system
(para 3.20) requires an increased flexibility and innovative
approach   by   enterprise   managers   to   improve   enterprise
operations. Management skills in Hungary are underdeveloped in
this respect and require strengthening particularly in such
important  areas  as  strategic  planning,  marketing,  product
development, cost control and budgeting. In addition, enterprise
management information systems to support improved enterprise
management are inadequate.
(d) Proliferation and Technology of Products. The enterprises in the
subsectors are producing a wide r'nge of products, including a
large number of low volume an: anprofitable products and
activities.   Also, the in-house production of components has
proliferated  given  the  limited  development  of  small-  and
mediumrsized feeder industries in Hungary (para 3.29) leading to
excessive levels of vertical integration, thereby further
broadening  enterprise  activities  and  limiting  efficiency.
Concerning technology development most enterprises have relied
primarily   on   centralized   R&D   institutes   and   for  more
sophisticated products, on designs obtained through licensing
agreements with Western companies.   This has resulted in an
insufficient level of internal product development.
(e)  Aging Technology and Fragmentation of Production.   The limited
access to updated equipment and technology in view of historic
restrictions on foreign exchange availability has severely
hampered productivity, material usage, cost competitiveness and
product quality. Competitiveness is further constrained by the
scattered nature of production sites of enterprisas. Most of the
main subsector enterprises manufacture products at murltiple
sites.  Further, plant facilities are to a large extent poorly
organized with inappropriate production layout and flow, while
productivity is severely affected by the high levels of excess
employment  in  the  enterprises.    Strengthening  of  technical
training is also needed.
(f)  Pricing and Competition.   Prices in the rubber processing and
food processing machinery subsectors are based on the general
system of unadministered pricing applicable to the industrial



- 18 -
sectoro  In the agricultural machinery subsector, however, the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) administers prices for agricultural
machines sold on the domestic market, which has led to relatively
low prices and profitability for the domestic market.  Further,
for most machinery in the food processing machinery subsector,
import duties are on the high side ranging from 20-40%, thereby
limiting the competitive environment of these products on the
domestic market,   The Hungarian  authorities  have  decided  to
liberalize   the   pricing   of   agricultural   machinery   from
administrative controls by January 1, 1988k along with the
introduction of the tax reform (para 3.14), and to rsduce the
higher tariff rates for food processing machinery to a maximum
level of 20% by January 1, 1989, according to a confirmed
schedule of reductions.
(g)  Infrastructural  Support.    The  concentrated  structure  of  the
subsectors has led to a lack of infrastructural services such as
provision of quality and testing facilities, timely availability
of tools and accessories, information on marketing and technical
aspects, and support for export promotion measures.
3.28         The strategies for the three subsectors to remove the above
constraints have been prepared jointly by the Hungarian authorities,
subsector enterprises, two internationally reputed management consulting
firms,  ar4  the  Bank.    Details  of  restructuring  strategies  for  the
subsectors are given in Annex 3-2.  The strategies principally focus on:
Si) restructuring of current enterprise operations in order to improve
international competitiveness through development of competitive - and
phasing out of uneconomical - products and activities; (ii) increasing the
cost competitiveness through improvements in material usage, energy
consumption   and   labor   productivity,   through   modernization   and
rationalization    of    production    facilities    and    organization;
Ciii) strengthening of enterprise management, organization and systems to
provide flexibility in respondiAg to changes in business environment;
(iv) improving and upgrading infrastructural support through strengthening
of quality control and testing facilities, technical and marketing
information   network,   and   research   and   development   activities;
(v) encouraging increased exports to convertible currency countries through
export promotion measures; and (vi) providing technical assistance to
small- and medium-sized enterprises to understand and develop their own
strategies on products, markets, technology and management systems and to
create internal capabilities to adjust these strategies on a regular basis.
3. Feeder Industries Development
3.29       Specific measures to create an adequate supply response to the
reform program also involve measures that aim at improving the structure
of the industrial sector, particularly by accelerating the development of
small- and medium-sized enterprises, and at promoting the efficient forward
and backward linkages among enterprises. In this respect, there has been a
strong tendency toward vertical integration of production enterprises in
Hungarian  industry  (para  3.27).    Industrial  enterprises  preferred  to
manufacture parts and components in-hous.  rather than build up a network of
feeeer  industries.   This has resulted in the underdevelopment of such
small-scale component manufacturers or feeder (background) industries in



- 19 -
Hungary, and has produced one of the most concentrated industrial
organization structures in the world. The basic role of feeder industry is
to produce components for further integration, subassemblies, fixtures, and
tooling, which contribute to the increased efficiency of the user unit
processing  the  next  stage  of  manufacturing,  leading  to  increased
competitiveness and exportability of the final products.   Experience of
advanced countries shows that the efficient development of such feeder
industries contributes to increased efficiency and competitiveness of the
industrial  sector  as  a  whole.    Details  on  historic  and  projected
production, exports, imports and local consumption of a selected group of
feeder industry products in Hungary is shown in Annex 3-3.
3.30           The weakness in the feeder industry sector in Hungary has
prevented final product manufacturers from concentrating on their core
business as regards their technology and international competitiveness and
has constrained the supply and quality of parts and components in Hungary,
and thus affected the export performance of final products also.   The
strategy agreed with the Hungarian authorities to correct the imbalance is
to encourage the establishment of product-specialized units which would
manufacture components exclusively or largely for supply to final, product
manufacturers.   These feeder industries would concentrate on producing
high-quality components, and in turn enable the final product manufacturers
to shed production of in-house component manufacture, and rationalize their
production systems.  The Project provides support for development of such
enterprises   in  the  industrial  sector  to  achieve  this  objective
(para 5.03). The successful implementation of this strategy requires more
than the establishment of new feeder industries. The restructuring of the
present vertically integrated manufacturers will have to be carried out
simultaneously to translate the benefits of the establishment of feeder
industries into actual cost savings to the final product manufacturers.
In this respect, the subsectoral restructuring programs developed under the
Project aim at the specialization of subsector enterprises and appropriate
reduction of vertical integration (para 5.15).
IV. INSTITUTIONS AND ENTERPRISES INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
4.01       The Project involves a large number of diverse institutions and
enterprises in the execution of its different components.   The main ones
are shown in the following table.



- 20 -
Table 4.1
Institutions and Enterprises Involved in the Project
Project Component                         Institution/Entity
IndustryEXide Restructuring
1. Restructuring Imports       Importing  enterprises  through  the  sale  of
foreign exchange by NBH.
2. Feeder Lndustries           Eligible enterprises supplying feeder industry
products through subloans made by commercial
banIs.
3. Technical Assistance:
- Support for Reform        Through  the  Government:    National Planning
Program                    Office (NPO), Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Foreiga Trade, and other Government agencies.
- Banking System Support   NWH, Hungarian  Credit  Bank, Coiumrcial and
Credit Bank, Development and Credit Bank of
Budapest, Foreign Trade Bank, National Savings
Bank, General Banking and Trust Company, and
other eligible coumercial banks.
- Studies                  Through   Government:   MOI,  and   subsector
enterprises.
Subsector Restructuring
1. Technological               Eligible   infrastructure   enterprises   and
Infrastructure              institutes in rubber processing, agricultural
machinery and food processing machinery
subsectors through subloans made by comrcial
banks.
2. Enterprise Restructuring    Taurus,, Kaloplasztik, Raba, Szolnok, Oroshaza,
Elgep,   Keceskemet   and   other   eligible
enterprises in rubber processing, agricultural
machinery, food processing machinery, and
plastics   processing   subsectors   thrcugh
subloans mad by comercial banks.
3. Technical Assistance        Restructuring Program Office (RPO) through MOT1,
and industrial enterprises through subloans
made by commercial banks.
4.02      The National Bank of  unary.  The proposed loan will be made to
the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).  Until January 1, 1987, NBH was the
country's central bank as well as the main commercial bank in Hungary.
Following the implementation of the two-tier banking system within the
overall economic reform program of the Government (para 3.19), the credit
activities of NBH have been transferred to three new commercial banks at
the  start  of  1987  (para  4.03).   NBH now  remains  the  central  bank,
responsible for all foreign exchange operations, management of the external
debt, establishing and administering credit policies of the banking system
in accordance with the needs of the monetary program of the Government, and
for provision of funds to the new commercial banks through its loan
rediscounting facility. The current role of NBH is that of a traditional
central bank in a coantry with a conventional two-tier banking system,



- 21 -
compiseing a bank of issue separate from commercial banks carrying out
credit activities.,  Historic financial statements of NBH are given in
Annex 4-1.
4.03        The Commercial Banks.  Onlending of the loan proceeds to the
final beneficiaries (para 6.06) will be the responsibility initially of the
three commercial banks which have been formed from the credit sections of
NBH and the State Development Bank (SDB). These are: (i) Hungarian Credit
Bank, (ii) Commercial and Credit Bank, and (iii) Development and c.redit
Bank of Budapest. The first two banks were created from the industrial and
agricultural credit sections of NBH respectively, while the third bank was
established through the merger of the credit section of the State
Development Bank (SDB) and the credit bank of Budapest, a subsidiary of
NBIL   The three banks will compete across all sectors (para 3.19).  Some
important characteristics of the three banks are shown in the table below.
Table 4.2
Main Features of the New Commercial Banks
Commercial      Development
Hungarian        and        and Credit Bank
Credit Bank   Credit Bank      of Budapest
No. of Branches                         23            46               19
No. of Accounts                     2,800          3,300            1,600
Deposits (Ft billion)                   39            30               31
CredSt Portfolio (Ft billion)          137           112               58
4004        An appraisal of the institutional, operational and financisl
aspects of the banks and their operational and financial prospects has been
carried out, of which details are presented in Annex 4-2.  Based on the
appraisal, the three banks are considered suitable intermediaries for the
onlending of Bank loan proceeds to the Project beneficiaries. In order to
strengthen the organization, management, staffing and financial position of
the three banks, it was agreed at negotiations that the banks would:
(i) participate in a training program to upgrade their staff capabilities
in the area of commercial banking operations, project evaluation, loan
supervision and customer services; such program has been designed and will
be implemented under the Project (para 5.09); and (ii) have their entire
initial subscribed capital paid in latest by June 1988 in accordance with
decisions of their General Assemblies in order that the banks have a
satisfactory financial structure by the end of 1988.   Furthermore, the
banks have started their operations with a loan portfolio transferred from
NBH.  The entire loan portfolio has Been transferred at full book value,
without provisions for possible doubtful debts.  While the accounts were
all current at the time of transfer, several of the large accounts are of
enterprises which have had financial difficulties in the past. The quality
of the transferred loan portfolio therefore needs to be assessed on a
loan-by-loan basis to determine the level of provisions which would need to
be set up. Also, the regulatory framework within which the banks operate
requires that the banks set aside up to 20X of their pre-tax profits
towards a risk fund. As the profitability of the banks is expected to be



- 22 -
rather low in the initial years (Annex 4-2), due to the composition and
costs of the resources available to them, such a fund linked to
profitability is unliltely to build up at a sufficient pace to provide a
cushion in case a large3 borrower becomes delinquent.   To strengthen the
operating policies and financial structure of the new commercial banks,
therefore, the Hungarian authorities agreed to the need for each commercial
bank to review its loan portfolio periodically, segregate substandard loans
for closer scrutiny and make separate provisions to cover any likely loss
which could result from such substandard loans. While the commercial banks
are now empowered to determine such provisions, the Hungarian authorities
would consider in the context of the further development of the regulatory
framework for the Hungarian banking system, the introduction of a uniform
requirement for all commercial banks to establish such provisions in line
with international practices.   The overall performance of the eligible
intermediary banks will be monitored cloeely to determine their continued
capability to act as viable intermediary banks.
4.05        The intermediary banks have undertaken to set their interest
rates on the basis of the following principles which are contained in the
policy statement of each of the banks and which have been agreed with the
Bank:  (i) the rates would include an adequate spread to cover the bank's
operating costs including adequate provisions for doubtful debts; (ii) the
rates would be positive in real terms; and (iii) the rates would not
subsidize any category of borrowers. This arrangement is in line with the
measures under the recent banking reform, which allow the banks to set
their own deposit and lending rates (para 3.19).   In this respect, the
lending rate structure in Hungary has been satisfactory in the past. Also,
NBH's rediscount rate of 10.5%, which would determine the final lending
rate, is strongly positive in relation to current and anticipated domestic
inflation in Hungary.   The Bank would periodically review these interest
rates to ensure that they continue to adhere to the above three principles,
providing an adequate margin to ensure profitability of the banks.
4.06         Other banks can also be included for onlending of the loan
proceeds at a later stage if they are assessed as suitable intermediary
institutions after a complete appraisal of their institutional, operational
and financial aspects.   To strengthen their capabilities,  the Project
includes technical assistance for these other banks  (para 5.09).   The
Project would also support upgrading of facilities for foreign exchange
transactions of the Foreign Trade Bank, the National Savings Bank, and the
General Banking and Trust Company (para 5.08).
4.07      The Project includes support to foster the development of feeder
industry enterprises that produce parts, compo-nenta, and subassemblies for
downstream user industries, through a credit line to be established at NBH
and  onlent  through  the  commercial  banks  (para  5.03).    The  lack  of
development of efficient small- and medium-sized enterprises specialized in
the production of feeder industry products, such as engineering components,
tools, electrical and electronic components, intermediate supplies and
accessories has constrained the efficiency of the industrial sector
(para 3.29). Specific eligibility criteria for the participation of these
enterprises in the Project were developed jointly by MOI, NBH and the Bank
(para 6.10).



- 23 -
4.08       Governmental institutions such as NBH, National Planning Office
(NPO), Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Foreign Trade, and Ministry of
Industry  (MOI)  will  be  involved  in  the  further  development  and
implementation  of  the  policy  reform  program.    The  Project  includes
technical assistance support for these institutions in carrying out various
tasks under the industry-wide restructuring component (para 5.06).
Further, MOI will be supported in the development of future subsectoral
restructuring programs and in identifying constraints to feeder industry
develooment through studies carried out by international consulting firms
in association with local firms.
4.09          llnder the Project,  funds will be provided to subsectoral
infrastructure institutes to improve and strengthen the support for
s'ibsector  enterprises,  especially  SMEs.      In  the  rubber  processing
subsector, this includes support to (i) a commercially oriented quality
control center to strengthen the quality control and testing capabilities
of the subsector; and (ii) Vegyterv, a large engineering center, to expand
its marketing and technical information center.   Also programs of two
budget-contributed institutes in quality control and testing - Technical
University of Budapest (BME) and Institute of Trade Certification (KERMI) -
will be supported.   In the agricultural and food processing machinery
subsectors, the Project will support: (i) Bio-Innokoord, currently a joint
venture of 17 enterprises in the subsectors which provides common
industrial services, for the establishment of a marketing and technical
information center; and (ii) the Development Institute for Agricultural
Machinery (MEFI), which operates as a central R&D center primarily for
agricultural  machinery  and  other  machinery,   for  strengthening  of
standardization activities of the subsectors.
4.10            The  subsector  restructuring  component  will  support  the
restructuring programs of eligible subsector enterprises in the rubber
processing,   agricultural   machinery   and   food   processing   machinery
subsectors.   Seven enterprises were selected for joint appraisal by the
Bank,  NBH and MOI/RPO.   The selected enterprises  are  for  the rubber
processing subsector:  Taurus Rubber Works (Taurus) and Kaloplasztik; for
agricultural machinery subsector:   Raba, Szolnok Agricultural Machinery
Enterprise  (Szolnok)  and  Oroshaza  Agricultural  Machinery  Enterprise
(Oroshaza);  and  for  food  processing  machinery:    Elgep  and  Keceskemet
Agricultural  and Food Processing Machinery Enterprise  (Kecskemet).   A
summary of the background, organization, operations and financial situation
of  the  enterprises  is  given  in Annex  4-3.    The selection of  these
enterprises was based on the significant share of their operations of the
subsectors (their combined production accounted for 42-70% of output of the
subsectors in 1984/85) and their managements' commitment to the objectives
of the Project. Also, the appraisal of the restructuring programs of these
enterprises provides other enterprises in the subsectors with examples for
developing such enterprise restructuring programs consistent with the
objectives  of  the  Project.    Other  enterprises  in the three  selected
subsectors  can a].30 participate  in the Project.   Specific eligibility
criteria for their participation were developed jointly by MOI, NBH and the
Bank (para 6.10).  Enterprises in the plastics processing subsector will
continue to be eligible for support under the proposed Project, based on
eligibility criteria similar to those developed for the other selected
subsectors  and  in  line  with  criteria  under  the  first  industrial
restructuring project (para 6,10).



- 24 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
5.01            The objective  of  the Project,  as the first  industrial
restructuring project (Loan No. 2700-HU), is to support the restructuring
of Hungarian industry to enable it to achieve International competitiveness
and increase the potential for exports to convertible currency markets.
The Project, supported by a US$150 million Bank loan, includes two mutually
reinforcing components to achieve this objective:
(a)  An    industry-wide    restructuring    component,    for   which
US$98.5 million of the Bank loan has been provided, to finance
imports of goods needed as a result of industry-wide enterprise
restructuring, a pilot program for the development of feeder
industries which produce parts, components, and subassemblies for
industry, and specific technical assistance with regard to the
reform program, the banking system, and studies; and
(b) A subsector restructuring component, for which US$51.5 million of
the Bank loan has been provided,   to support the efficient and
competitive  development  of  rubber  processing,  agricultural
machinery, food processing machinery and plastics processing
subsectors, including support for technological infrastructure,
enterprise   restructuring,   and   technical   assistance   for
preparation, appraisal, and coordination of subsector and
enterprise restructuring programs.
B.  Industry-wide Restructuring Coa2onent
1.  Specific Support for Industr_-wide RestructurinL
5.02       The industrial restructuring program aims at changing Hungary's
industrial structure in line with the count:.y's long-term comparative
advantage.   This involves, inter alia, the elimination/reduction of lines
of production which are uneconomic in the long run, and expansion of
competitive product lines. This has created an immediate need for imports
of goods currently being produced domestically for which production is
being reduced or eliminated, or additional imports of input materials for
increasing production in new lines.  In view of the urgent need broadly to
encourage industrial restructuring of enterprises, the Project would
support a relatively small part of such import needs arising from the
industrial restructuring program.   The Bank loan includes an amount of
US$40 million to be utilized to finance import needs arising from
restructuring of enterprises in selected activities.  Under the Project,
foreign exchange will be sold by NBH for meeting specific import
requirements of a limited positive list of goods.   The list has been
finalized at negotiations and includes the following goods:   (i) coal;
(ii) finished rolled steel products; (iii) plastic resins, input materials,
and finished products; and (iv) rubber, synthetic rubber and finished
rubber products. In the first two cases the goods relate to restructuring
programs undertaken by the Government in the coal and steel sectors aimed



- 25 -
at reducing uneconomic production and leading to important capacity
reductions in these two areas (para 3.08).  In the latter two cases, the
goods support the ongoing restructuring of both the plastics processing and
rubber processing subsectors for which restructuring programs have been
appraised by the Bank, and which two subsectors are also eligible for
investment support under the Project (para 5.11).
2. Support for Feeder Industries
5.03        The proposed Project will include a pilot component to support
the development of feeder industries in Hungary (para 3.29), for which the
Bank loan would provide US$50.0 million. Under the Project, funds will be
provided for financing the foreign currency investment needs of specialized
feeder industries in the industrial sector. An estimate of domestic demand
for a selected group of component groups typically produced by feeder
industries indicates that production for these components will have to
increase by about 5-6% per year to satisfy demand (Annex 3-3).  Investment
needs to meet the estimated demand in the above product groups and allow
for the establishment of new specialized enterprises in this respect, have
been estimated at about US$200-250 million during 1986-90. These needs may
be higher if the strategy for the development of feeder industries succeeds
and the share of components in manufacturing in Hungary increases from its
present level of about 35-37% of total value of production to the
international norm of 45-50%.
5.04       To ensure that Project funds are used for the establishment of
specialized enterprises, and not for taking up manufacture of components by
an existing firAl product manufacturer for its captive use, only those
enterprises are eligible for support under the Project for which at least
70% of production is destined for use by other units.   Further,  the
applying enterprises will be expected to submit a restructuring program (or
business plan in the case of newly established enterprises) for their
entire operations along the same lines as enterprises under the subsector
restructuring  component  (para  5.19).    Further  detailed  criteria  to
determine the eligib'lity of subprojects and enterprises and the
limitations on the use of funds, have been prepared jointly with the
Hungarian authorities and are described in para 6.10.  In addition, the
Ministry of Industry has agreed to carry out a study, financed by the Bank
loan (para 5.10),   to determine the main constraints that affect the
development of feeder industries in Hungary and define an action program of
measures to promote the future development of such industries. Terms of
reference for such study are attached as Annex 5-1.   The selection of
consultants and start of the study is expected by the third quarter of
1987, to allow the study to be completed by early 1988.  Confirmation has
been obtained during gegotiations that the principal recommendations of the
study will be implemented following its completion and teview with the
Bank.
3. Technical Ast,istance and Related Services
5.05         Under the industry-wide restructuring component, the Project
would provide support for technical assistance in the following three



- 26 -
areas: (i) further development and implementation of the reform program;
(ii) support for the banking system; and (iii) studies for development of
restructuring programs of additional subsectors and feeder industries. An
amount cf US$8.5 million (including an estimated US$5.5 million for
information systems) has been provided for in the Bank loan in support of
these areas for which details are given below.
(a) Specific Support for the Reform Program
5.06        The major policy and institutional reforms to be implemented
under the reform program (para 3.02) rely on substantial policy
formulation, program development and institution-building efforts in the
different areas.   In continuation of technical assistance provided under
the first industrial restructuring project, the Government plans to
integrate relevant international experience and expertise into these
efforts to examine different models for, and minimize likely problems in
the implementation of a number of policy measures, such as promotion of
SM4Es  (para  3,06),  the  development  of  the  Refloatation  Organization
(para 3.07) including assistance to determine the long-term viability of
enterprises and to review the adequacy of their restructuring programs,
implementation of the law of Unfair Economic Practices (para 3.13), the
further development of the Worker Retraining Program (para 3.16), the
development of bond and stock markets (para 3.17), continuation of the
enterprise management training program initiated under the first industrial
restructuring project (paras 2.16 and 3.20), and promotion of direct
foreign investment (para 3.21).  The overall objectives and scope of the
activities have been defined as part of the policy reform program.   The
proposed Project would finance the foreign exchange requirements of these
and related efforts throigh the provision of funds for international study
tours, invitation of consultants and experts, and training programs
including those for Hungarian trainers. Further, the Project would support
the design and implementation of the information system requirements for
the planned introduction of the value-added tax and the personal income
tax, and to strengthen the administration of the tax reform (para 3.14).
Funds would be made available to meet the foreign exchange needs of a study
for the establishment of the necessary information systems, as well as for
required hardware and software. The Bank loan would provide US$3.5 million
in support of the above areas, including an estimated US$2.5 million for
information systems.
(b) Support for the Banking System
5.07         The Project would provide support for the development of the
two-tier banking system in two areas:  (i) support for development of the
information systems in NBH and other banks, which will enable the
separation of the accounting systems of the three commercial banks from the
accounts of NBH as the bank of issue and the establishment of a clearing
center for the banking system, as well as meet other needs of NBH and other
banks; and (ii) provision of technical assistance to the new commercial
banks, to strengthen their operational capabilities.   Details of these
Project components are provided in Annex 5-2, of which a summary is given
below.



- 27 -
5.08           Development of Information Systems,   NBH has formulated a
three-stage   development  plan  to  achieve   the   separation  of   its
macro-economic and other data requirements as the bank of issue from the
credit accounting and credit information management services required by
the new commercial banks, and the establishment of a clearing center for
the banking system (Annex 5-2).   The plan will be implemented during
1987-89.    To  allow  NBH  to  establish  its  separate  data  processing
facilities, the Project would support the purchase by NBH of necessary
hardware and related software. Further, the Project would support NBH, the
Foreign Trade Bank, the National Savings Bank, and the General Banking and
Trust Company, in upgrading their facilities that connect them to the
international SWIFT network for foreign exchange transactions.  NBH would
appoint a foreign consultant by December 1987 to review and elaborate upon
the concept for the creation of a clearing center for the banking system,
including the purchase and installation of necessary hardware. In support
of the above areas, the Bank loan would provide US$3.0 million, of which
US$2.6 million for NBH and US$0.4 million for the other three banks.
5.09       Technical Assistance to the Comercial Banks.  Under the banking
reforms, all the new commercial banks will become full-service commercial
banks in the enterprise sector.  The technical assistance provided under
the Project, in continuation of efforts under the first project, will
concentrate mainly on the three currently eligible intermediary banks
(para 4.03), while for other banks initial technical assistance needs will
be met.   The Project is proposed to provide support toward effective
full-service banking, for which the Bank loan would provide US$1.0 million
of which US$0.9 million to the intermediary banks (para 4.03) and
US$0.1 million to other commercial banks (para 4.06), in the following
areas: (i) organization and management, (ii) commercial banking operations,
(iii) investment project appraisal and supervision, (iv) management
information systems and new technology, and (v) a feasibility study for the
establishment of a training institution for bank staff. Detailed technical
assistance requiretents have been finalized during the appraisal of the
three commercial banks. (para 4.04).   Annex 5-1 provides details on the
content of the program.
(c) Studies
5.10            Based  on  the  successful  experience  of  developing  the
restructuring programs of four subsectors in preparation of the first and
second industrial restructuring projects with the assistance of qualified
international consultants, the Government plans to continue similar efforts
related to other selected subsectors.   International consultants will be
retained in conjunction with local consulting firms to undertake the
required assessment of international competitiveness, a diagnosis of
industry constraints and the formulation of strategies for restructuring of
selected  subsectors  and  programs  for  dominant  enterprises.    Further,
financing for the study on the development of feeder industries in Hungary
would be provided under this component of the Project (para 5.04).  The
Bank loan would finance US$1.0 million to meet the foreign exchange needs
of these efforts.



- 28 -
C. Subsector Restructuring Component
5.11       This component will support:  (i) technological infrastructural
measszes to support the restructuring strategies of three eligible
subsectors: rubber processing, agricultural machinery and food processing
machinery subsectors; (ii) restructuring programs of eligible subprojects
of enterprises in the three subsectors as well as the plastics processing
subsector; and (iii) technical assistance to the Restructuring Program
Office (RPO) and subsector and feeder industry enterprises for preparation,
appraisal and supervision of subsector and enterprise restructuring
programs. The Bank loan would provide US$51.5 million in support of these
areas, including US$2.5 million for technical assistance.
1. Development of TechnoloLical Infrastructure
5.12        The Project will support the strengthening of technological
infrastructure available to the subsectors, especially to the small- and
medium-sized enterprises (SMes), including subsector-wide programs to
upgrade the quality of raw materials and products, strengthen the marketing
and technical information network, and promote exports to convertible
currency markets. For the rubber processing subsector, this component will
finance the establishment of a quality control center  (para 4.09) by
March 1988, to perform raw material and finished goods testing, research
and development service, certification and consultancy.  In addition, the
component will strengthen the activities of two budget-contributed
institutes - BME and KERMI - engaged in quality control and testing
(para  4.09).    For  the  agricultural  and  food  processing  machinery
subsectors,   the   component   will   support   the   strengthening   of
standardization. A standardization center, willibe created by end-1987 and
located within MEFI, the Development Institute for Agricultural Machinery,
which is already in charge of coordinating standardization with CMEA
countries.   The center will disseminate  ISO standards  and coordinate
industry participation in ISO activities, including participation in
international meetings.
5.13      Further, the marketing and technical information center, created
under the first industrial restructuring project for the plastics
processing subsector at the Hungarian Chemicals Industries Engineering
Center (Vegyterv), will be strengthened to provide enterprises in the
rubber processing subsector with critical technical and marketing
information such as new processing technologies, properties of new rubber
compounds and their applications, and export markets through access to
foreign data bases.   The Project will provide computer facilities to be
connected with the main computer data base at Vegyterv and facilities for
dissemination of information. The Project will support the creation of a
similar marketing and technical information center for agricultural and
food processing machinery enterprises to (i) gather and disseminate key
information on international markets, raw materials/components, and on
technologies; (ii) carry out technical/market studies on behalf of
subsector enterprises; (iii) organize training sessions I.r marketing and
R&D staff; and (iv) assist subsector enterprises to pvtu*m:;1 their products



- 29 -
on selected export markets such as through participation in international
exhibitions. The center will be created by end-1987 within the framework
of Bio-Innokoord (para 4.09), which is already involved in certain of these
activities for the two subsectors.
5.14      Finally, the component will finance exrt promotion measures in
the  rubber processing subsector  to enhance  contacts between SMEs and
foreign customers through visits to international trade exhibitions,
organization of mini-trade fairs, and marketing activities in the
neighboring countries.
2. Restructuring of Enterprises
5.15      This component will support the development and implementation of
restructuring programs of enterprises in the three subsectors which were
selected for support under this Project - rubber processing, agricultural
machinery and food processing machinery - while enterprises in the plastics
processing subsector, which was analyzed in detail under the first
industrial restructuring project, will also be eligible for support
(para 4.10).   The  restructuring programs  aim at developing  sustained
international competitiveness through improvement of organizational and
management  capability  of  enterprises,   technological  innovation  and
development, product-mix upgrading, elimination of uneconomic lines and
activities, and rationalizatien of production facilities.   Restructuring
strategies and related measures to improve organization and management
systems ("software" measures) have veen prepared for seven selected
enterprises (para 4.10) as a model for other enterprises. These strategies
were prepared by the enterprises with the assistance of two qualified
international consultant firm. financed by the Bank, working jointly with a
local consulting firm. The strategies to be adopted by the enterprises are
in the areas of products/markets, production rationalization, organization
structure and management systems. Details of the restructuring strategies
of the seven enterprises and related "software" measures are provided in
Annex 5-3.
5.16       The product/market strategies would allow the seven enterprises
to (i) focus on products that have potential to be internationally
competitive, such as radial tires, air springs and hoses for Taurus in
rubber processing; complete combine attachments (e.g., plows, rotary
mowers), optional combine attachments (e.g., cornheaders, straw choppers),
and components (e.g., cabins, cardan drives, sprockets) in agricultural
machinery; and selected machines for milling/fodder mixing, cheese
processing and dairy tanks, canning preparation, slaughterhouses and
bakeries, as well as packaging machines, pumps and fittings in food
processing machinery; (ii) phase out uneconomical products such as
cross-ply tires and tubes in rubber processing, and small tractors in
agricultuiral machinery; and (iii) divest themselves of products and
activities which do not fit in the core business of enterprises such as
low-value technical goods for Taurus, plucking fingers for Kaloplasztik,
barrels for Szolnok, repair services for Szolnok and Oroshaza, canning and



- 30 -
meat processing machinery for Elgep, and simple canning preparation
machinery and seeder production for Kecskemet.   The implementation of
selective product/market strategies would enable the enterprise to improve
the quality of products, rationalize the pzoduct-mix and production
facilities, and reduce operating costs.
5.17      The efficient implementation of product/market strategies by the
selected enterprises is dependent on an efficient organization and
effective  supporting  management  systems.    It  was  agreed  with  the
enterprises that as part of their restructuring programs, each enterprise
will implement, with qualified external assistance, an integrated program
addressing organizational, management and systems requirements.   In this
respect, (i) Taurus will adjust its organization to a divisional structure
with  related  decentralization  of  its  major  functions,  implement  a
production rationalization program to consolidate its manufacturing at
selected sites, strengthen its computerized management information system,
introduce a corporate quality control system antd implement management
development and training programs; (ii) Kaloplasztik will separate its two
production facilities and implement an action pln to reduce its cost;
(iii) Raba will implement a new divisional tstructure, giving full
responsibility to each division and rationalize its production organization
by specializing each plant; continue to decrease overhead costs, strengthen
its management information system, and improve training; (iv) Szolnok will
prepare and implement a production rationalization program, strengthen its
management information systems, improve its R&D and implement management
development and training programs; (v) Oroshaza will implement a production
rationalization  program,   develop  a  management   information  system,
strengthen its marketing approach and staff, and implement training;
(vi) Elgep will implement a divisional organization structure for its main
product groups with decentralization of management functions, carry out a
program of production rationalization and overhead cost reduction, and
implement an improved management information system; and (vii) Kecskemet
will implement a divisional organization structure while realizing clear
separation of its agricultural and food processing machinery activities,
ra-.Xonalize its production facilities, carry out a program of overhead cost
reduction,  strengthen  strategic  planning  and  management  information
systems.
5.18        Details of ihe above organization and systems measures of the
seven selected enterprises have been prepared by the enterprises as part of
their overall restructuring programs.  The concept of these measures and
the related estimated investment requirements to support these "software"
measures have been appraised jointly,  by the Bank,  NBH and MOI/RPO.
Details are provided in Annex 5-3.  Financing of these measures will be
provided under the Project, including from the Bank loan which would
finance the foreign exchange needs estimated at US$10.6 million for the
seven enterprises (Annex 5-3). The production-oriented investment projects
to support the agreed product/market strategies (para 5.16) will be
finalized by the enterprises in the course of project implementation, and
will be reviewed and approved by the commercial banks and the RPO in
accordance with agreed eligibility criteria (para 6.10).



- 31 -
5.19      The Project will also support the restructuring programs of other
enterprises in the selected subsectors including the plastics processing
subsector, which are expected to be implemented during 1987-91.   Such
programs would be developed in accordance with the guidelines developed for
the selected enterprises and will be reviewed and approved by the
commercial banks in coordination with the technical appraisal carried out
by the RPO (para 6.05) following agreed eligibility criteria (para 6.10).
An outline of restructuring programs to be developed by the subsector
enterprises is given in Annex 5-4. The eligibility criteria of enterprises
and subprojects under this component have been discussed and finalized with
the NBH and MOI.   In order to ensure that only those enterprises are
eligible which are to a large extent specialized in subsector activities,
it was agreed that enterprises should obtain at least 30% of their sales
revenues from subsector products, in line with the criteria developed under
the first industrial restructuring project for plastics processing
enterprises.   Further eligibility criteria are discussed in Chapter VI
(para 6.10),   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that subloan
agreements   between  intermediary   banks   and  beneficiary  enterprises
(para 6.06) contain provisions that their subprojects should comply with
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
3. Technical Assistance
5.20         Many enterprises in the subsectors and the feeder industry
(para 5.03), especially SMEs, are unlikely to possess sufficient expertise
to  develop  satisfactory  restructuring  programs.    The  Project  would,
therefore, support the hiring of qualified foreign consultants by the
enterprises to provide technical assistance in the preparation of their
restructuring  programs.      To  support  the  preparation  of  enterprise
restructuring programs beyond the four eligible subsectors, funds under
this component would also be available for other industrial enterprises for
studies in preparation of enterprise restructuring programs. Further, the
Project will include support to strengthen the capacity of RPO to assist
the enterprises in formulating restructuring programs, including product,
market and organizational strategies, evaluate them, and to ensure that the
restructuring projects are consistent with the enterprise and subsectoral
strategy  objectives.   MOI has agreed to take the necessary steps to
strengthen RPO, including training in the restructuring concept and
methodology. MOI will seek assistance of foreign consultants to assist RPO
in these tasks (para 6,05). The Bank loan would provide for US$2.5 million
in support of the above areas, including US$2.0 million to enterprises for
development of restructuring programs, and US$0.5 million for strengthening
of RPO.
D. Project Cost and Financing
5.21        The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$406.8 million, of which US$211.0 million (52%) in foreign exchange, as
shown in the following table:



- 32 -
Tle 5.1
Polet Cost Estimate
ForeI4n
PFr-                  For-        as  of % f
Local g        Toal  local   ey   Total  Total  TOta
(Ft i3  -  =a                           - ( ?
r   1                          144  1,800   1,944    3.2   40*0   43.2  92.6   10.6
Feeder Indstries             3,114  2,435   5,549   69g2   54.1  123.3  43.9   30.3
Tedmical Assistance:
-Peform Propa                   23    112     135    0.7    3.5    4.2  83.3    1.1
- Blkdng Systan                 45    180     225    1.0    4.0    5.0  80.0    1.2
- StudlIes                      23     90     113    0.3    1.0    1.3  76.9    0.3
Subtota9l    382                           473    2.0    8.5   10.5  81eO    2.6
Total C(ORemnt           39349  4,617   7,966   74.4  102.6  177.0  58.0   43.5
Subsectorw tuWi
- RibberProcasing               44     57     101    0.9    1.3    2.2  59.1    0.5
- Agricultuue & Food
PCnroeosint P4acblgMzy       27     25       52    0.6    0.6    1*2  50.0    0*3
Subtotal                    7      82    153    1.5    1.9    3.4  T- 09        8
cnterpiseRetrct : p     /
- Ruber PIocessrEg           2,376  2,006   4,382   52.8   44.6   97.4  45.8   23.9
-   oricultural 4scbhlmry    2,277  2,046   49323   50.6   45.5   96.I  47.3   23.6
- Iood Procesidng hdduy       72D    628   1.348   16.0   13.9   29.9  46.5    7.4
Subtotal                 5,373  4,680  10,053  119.4 6 104.0  223.4  46.6   54.9
Technical Asistae:
-Studie                         18     90     108    0.4    2.0    2.4  83.3    0.6
- UFO                            5     23      28    0.1    0.5    0.6  83.3    0.2
Subtotal                    @i   113      73;    0.5    2.5    3.0  83.3    61
Total COWosU.t           5,467  4,875  10,342  121.4  108.4  229.8  47.2   56.5
Total Coat               8,816  9,492  18,308  195.8  211.0  406.8  51.9  100.0
a/  xcludIrS for plastics processi nw use    for  Aih cost stijtes are proded In the
Staff Apprisal RPport of the first lInktrial restctring project (Report Nb. 606941
lr 1986).
5.22         Under the industry-wide restructuring component,  the cost of
imports related to industry-wide restructuring which would be financed by
the Bank loan is estimated to amount to US$43.2 million during 1987/88,
including related customw duties estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent.
For the feeder industries component, the costs refer to the investment
costs of feeder industries projects facilitated by the proposed Bank loan
together with the complementary foreign and local currency financing of the
comercial banks, including for initial working capital needs and interest



- 33 -
during construction.   Under the technical assistance component, the cost
estimate for support of the reform program involves the costs for study
tours, training and consulting services, as well as information systems to
facilitate the implementation of the policy reform program supported by the
Project (para 5.06). The costs related to banking system support involve
hardware and software for development of information systems of NBH and
other  banks,   and  technical  assistance  for  the  commercial  banks
(para 5.07)*  The cost of studies covers the cost of foreign consultants
and local counterpart consultants for the preparation of restructuring
studies for new subsectors, and for development of feeder industries
(para  5.10).
5.23         The total cost of the subsector restructuring component is
estimated at US$229.8 million, of which US$108.4 million (47%) in foreign
exchange.   The costs of technological infrastructure for the subsectors
refer to subprojects which have been appraised jointly by the 401, NBH and
the Bank (para 5.12). The costs for enterprise restructuring 61 are based
on the estimated total restructuring investment needs of the subsector
enterprises   during  1987-91,  including  for  software  and  hardware
investments.   These include the restructuring needs of the seven main
subsector enterprises (para 4.10), as well as the estimated restructuring
requirements for other enterprises in the three subsectors. For the main
enterprises, the costs of software investments have been appraised
(para 5.17), while the costs for the specific hardware investments of these
enterprises have been estimated on the basis of subproject data prepared by
the enterprises. The restructuring investment needs of other enterprises
has been estimated on the basis of data of known subprojects of such
enterprises, as well as on an estimate of future restructuring subprojects
during the period 1987-91. The costs include estimates for initial working
capital costs and interest during construction.   Finally, for technical
assistance the costs refer to consultancy and training requirements for
subsector, feeder industry, and other industrial enterprises, and the
Restructuring Program Office (RPO), for development and coordination of
subsector and enterprise restructuring programs (para 5.20). For appraised
Project  components,  including  the  technical  assistance  components,
technological infrastructure measures and software measures of main
subsector enterprises, the costs are based on base cost estimates for early
1987 and include physical contingencies of 10% and price contingencies
based on projected foreign inflation of 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% per year during
1988-90, and 3.5% per year thereafter, and on projected local inflation of
9.0% per year from 1987.  Details of these cost estimates for subsector
measures are given in Annex 5-3.
5.24          Under the technical assistance components of the Project
(para 5.05 and 5.20), the Bank loan would finance an estimated
US$5.5 million for foreign services in consulting and training (including
study tours) in support of the reform program (US$1.0 million, para 5.06),
banking system development (US$1.0 million, para 5.09), preparation of
studies (US$1.0 million, para 5.10), the RPO (US$0.5 million, para 5.20)
6/   Excluding for the plastics processing subsector for vhich details are
provided in the Staff Appraisal Report of the first Industrial
Restructuring Project (Report No. 6069-RU, May 1986).



- 34 -
and for preparation of enterprise restructuring programs ((US$2.0 million,
para 5.20), including an estimated US$4.9 million (about 300 man-months)
for consulting services, and an estimated US$0.6 million for training.
5.25      A summary of the project financing plan is given in the following
table.
Table 5.2
(tus$ mLdcU
local                   NEdeI          TDtal
Comr-
cial  Govt. Project              cal
BEnks Contri-  Enr         lED  Esnks
N     b/  biin tities Totl    a/    b/   TOl
.yhmtry-ide Restnxturivg
estructuring Imports    -     -     -      3.2    3.2   40.0   -      40.0   43.2
Feeder Industries       -    38.4   -    30.8c/  69.2   50.0   4.1   54.1  123.3
Technical Assistance:
-wformProm             -     -      0.7   -       0.7    3,5   -      3.5   4.2
-Bandng System         0.8   -     -      0.2     1.0   4.0   -       4.0    5.0
-Studies               -     -      0.1   0.2    0.3    1.0   -       1.0   1.3
Subtotal              g    -      0.8   0.4     2O    8.5 -         8.5   lOe
Total (qpozmnt        0.8  38.4   0.8  34.4   74.4  98.5   4.1  102.o  177.0
Tusechlogical
tInfrastructure        -     0.7   -      0.8c/   1.5    1.9   -      1.9   3.4
Fnterprise  etuturing   -    63.6   -    55.8c/ 119.4  47.1  56.9  104.0  223.4
Technical Assistane:
-Studies               -     -     -      0.4    0.4    2.0   -       2.0   2.4
-NPo                   -           0.1   -       0.1    0.5   -       0.5   0.6
Subtotal             -     -      0.1   T-4    0,5    2.5          M 2.5   3.0
Iotal oq    t-    64.3   0.1  57.0   121.4   51.5  56.9  108.4  229.8
Total                0,8 102.7   0.9  91.4   195.8  150.0  61.0  211.0  406.8
_-           m    -    m     _   _         -az_
a/ Tncbding distribution of unallocated funds (pwa 6.15) ammxg Project cmqoneits.
Ri Funds onlent by 1  to tm e  umrc   bnks in loal crrenc equivalent.
i:  Based an psqtin that Project entities finarie 25% of total eost frm interal sorOes.
5.26      For the industry-wide restructuring component, the Bank loan will
cover about 56% of total financing requirements, or 96Z of foreign exchange
requirements.    The  Bank  loan will  contribute  US$40.0  million  to  the
financing of  imports related to industry-wide restructuring,  while the
enterprises will cover applicable duties In local currency estimated at
US$3.2 million. For the feeder industries component, the Bank loan would



- 35 -
provide US$50.0 million, while the commercial banks will cover the
remaining foreign exchange costs for working capital estimated at
US$4.1 million in local currency equivalent through funds onlent by NBH.
Local currency costs will be met by the commercial banks in a similar
fashion and by enterprises' own resources.   For the technical assistance
component of the industry-wide restructuring component, the Bank loan would
cover 100% of foreign exchange needs while the Project entities, namely the
Government, NBR, the commercial banks and industrial enterprises will
contribute US$2.0 million from their internal sources.
5,27        For the subsector restructuring component, the Bank loan will
cover about 22% of total financing requirements for the three subsectors
selected for this Project (excluding plastics processing) or 48% of foreign
exchange requirements. The commercial banks will finance through subloans
refinanced by NBH the local currency equivalent of additional foreign
exchange   requirements   of   infrastructure   institutes   and   subsector
enterprises  of  about  US$56.9  million.        Local  currency  costs  for
infrastructure institutes and subsector enterprises will be covered by
subloans onlent by the commercial banks and by internal sources of the
institutes and enterprises. Further, the Government will cover the local
currency requirements for technical assistance to RPO.   For the overall
Project, the Bank loan would contribute US$150 million, or 37% of the
Project cost estimate. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained
from the Government and NBH that they, as well as the commercial banks and
other   Project   beneficiaries   through   respective   subsidiary/subloan
agreements, will promptly provide their -.hare of financing to complete the
Project.   Finally, assurances have been obtained from the Government to
ensure the timely availability of funds to NBH to complete the Project.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Implementation Organization
6.01        NBH will be responsible for the overall coordination of the
Project and for monitoring the use of the Project funds.   An overall
indicative implementation schedule of the various Project components is
presented in Annex 6-1. While the implementation arrangements set up under
the first industriai restructuring project are flexible enough to
accommodate  the  changes  in  the  design  of  the  proposed  Project,  the
establishment of the two-tier banking system and the involvement of
commercial banks in the onlending of Bank funds (para 6.06) will require
some  changes  in ,4,roject  implementation  responsibilities,  as  discussed
below.
6.02      Industry-wide Restructuring Component.  The Restructuring Council
set up under the first industrial restructuring project will continue to be
responsible for the overall development and monitoring of the industrial
policy reform program. The Council, chaired by the Deputy Chairman of NPO,
includes representatives of the various Government agencies, including NBH,
and is supported by the Policy Task Force,  The reform actions which form
.he basis for the proposed Project have already been implemented
(Annex 3-1). Progress under the policy reform program will continue to be
monitored at semi-annual intervals as part of the Bank's economic and



- 36 -
policy dialogue, as well as supervision of ongoing and preparation of
future  industrial  restructuring  projects.        In  this  context,  the
macro-economic developments and management are being reviewed regularly,
including industrial export performance. Specifically, the monitoring will
address, in addition to the review of macro-economic performance, the
following areas: (i) analysis of progress of the reform program, including
the experience with implementation of previous measures; (ii) conttnued
analysis of competitiveness of industry; (iii) continued analysis of
enterprises in financial difficulties (para 2.06); and (iv) performance of
the selected subsectors (para 3.25).
6.03         For other program support measures under the industry-wide
component,  implementation arrangements  are as follows:   (i) Technical
Assistance in Support of the Reform Program.   For the various activities
under this component (para 5e06), study teams are appointed by the
Restructuring Council which develop and implement proposals for technical
assistance, study tours, and training in the context of the overall policy
reform program. These proposals are screened by a technical committee of
the Restructuring Council  (headed by a managing director of NBH and
comprising representatives of different agencies) and submitted for
clearance by the Council prior to Bank approval.   (ii) Banking System
Support.   This component (para 5.07) will be managed by NBH.   NBH has
already set up a banking system data processing working group, which will
coordinate the development of the information systems needed by the entire
banking system including the components to be implemented under the
Project. Further, NBH will be responsible for evaluating the requests of
the commercial banks for advisory services and for participation in
training programs in selected institutions abroad prior to approval by the
Bank.
6.04       Specific Subsector Restructuring and Feeder Industry Components.
The existing Steering Committee, headed by the Secretary of State, MOI, and
comprising representatives of MOI, NPO, NBH, and representatives of the
respective  subsectors,  would  be  responsible  for:    developing  further
subsectoral restructuring programs including the preparation of studies for
new subsectors on the basis of criteria agreed with the Bank; monitoring
their   implementation;    assessing   effectiveness;    and   formulating
recommendations for changes therein.   In similar  fashion the Steering
Committee would be responsible for the monitoring and further development
of the feeder industry component, including the execution and follow-up to
the  study  on feeder  industry  constraints  (para 5.04).   Its work  is
coordinated with the Restructuring Council   para 6.02).   The Steering
Committee is supported by the Restructuring Ptogram Office (RPO), which has
been established under the first industrial restructuring project to
coordinate the implementation of the restructuring program for the plastics
processing subsector, including day-to-day implementation tasks and the
technical appraisal of restructuring subprojects of plastics processing
enterprises.
6.05         For the proposed Project, the RPO is being strengthened to
coordinate the implementation of the restructuring programs of the three
selected subsectors and of the feeder industries component, alongside the
ongoing program for the plastics processing subsector.  Specifically, the
RPO will be staffed by qualified full-time personnel to assist the



- 37 -
intermediary banks in the review of the strategic, marketing, organization,
madagement systems, and technical aspects of the subsector restructuring -
and feeder industry subprojects presented to the banks for financing under
the Project. The intermediary banks will carry out the assessment of the
economic   and   financial   aspects   of   these   subprojects   and   the
creditworthiness of the enterprises involved, and will be responsible for
making the  final  credit  decision.    The RPO will also assist  in the
coordination and supervision of procurement activities under the subsector
restructuring - and feeder industry components which will be carried out by
the enterprises involved and assisted, where necessary, by foreign trade
organizations.   RPO will further carry out day-to-day supervision and
reporting activities  for  these  Project  components.    The  organization
structure and staffing of RPO required to enable it to handle the above
responsibilities under the proposed Project as well as related technical
assistance arrangements have been agreed in the course of project
preparation. Staffing increases will be realized by end-1987. The Project
includes necessary technical. assistance and training for strengthening of
the RPO (para 5.20), for which terms of reference have been prepared and
related foreign assistance will be engaged by October 1987.
B. Onlending Arrangements and Criteria
6.06       As in the earlier Bank operations, the Bank loan is proposed to
be made to NBH for a period of 15 years, including three years grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.   NBH will carry the foreign
exchange risk.  In order to regulate the flow of funds from NBH to the
beneficiaries, and to set out the respective obligations of the various
entities, the following agreements will be signed:   (i) Loan Agreement
between the Bank and NBH; (ii) Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
Government; (iii) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NBH and the Government;
(iv) Subsidiary Financing Agreements between NBH and the intermediary
commercial banks; (v) Subloan Agreements between the intermediary banks and
the  commercial  Project  beneficiaries;  and  (vi)  Subsidiary  Lending
Agreements between NBH and other banks for technical assistance and
upgrading  of  information  systems.    Signature  of  the  Subsidiary Loan
Agreement under (iii) above, and at least two of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements with eligible intermediary banks (para 4.03) under (iv) above is
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. Further, signature of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreenmnts under (iv) above between NBH and additional
eligible intermediary banks, and of Subsidiary Lending Agreements under
(iv) above between NBH and other banks is a condition of disbursement for
onlending of Bank funds to these banks.
6.07      For financing of eligible restructuring subprojects of subsector
enterprises and infrastructure institutes, and eligible feeder industry
subprojects, NB! wi'l onlend the loan proceeds to the intermediary
commercial banks through its loan rediscounting facility (para 4.02).
Funds would be available for onlending by all banks which are found to be
suitable intermediary institutions after a complete appraisal of their
institutional, operational and financial aspects (para 4.06).   Initially
the three commercial banks formed out of NBH's and SDB's previous credit
sections will  participate  as  intermediaries  (para  4.03).    All  funds
available for onlending will be provided to the banks on e first-come
first-served basis, without a prior allocation to the intermediary banks or
to any subsector among the eligible subsectors.



- 38 -
6.08      For financing of subprojects under the subsector restructuring -
and feeder industry components, NBH will onlend the loan proceeds to the
intermediary banks At the prevailing Bank rate plus a mark-up of at least
20% (comprising NBHId processing costs and a risk-bearing premium to cover
the estimated foreign exchange risk) or its rediscount rate, whichever is
higher. In practice, NBH would make the funds available to the banks at
its rediscount rate, which is currently 10.5% and therefore higher than the
Bank's current interest rate plus 20% (currently 9.5%).   In turn, each
intermediary bank will set its interest rates for subloans to the
subborrowers on the basis of principles which are contained in the policy
statement of each of the eligible banks and which have been agreed with the
Bank  (para  4.05).    As part  of  Project  supervision,  the  Bank  would
periodically review these interest rates (para 4.05). All proceeds of the
Bank loan to the Government and the commercial banks for technical
assistance and information systems purposes will be onlent by NBH at a rate
at least equal to the prevailing Bank rate plus a 20% mark-up or its
rediscount rate, whichever is higher.   The interest rate charged by the
intermediary banks on local currency subloans to commercially-oriented
entities will be the prevailing commercial rate.
6.09        A maturity of 15 years (including three years grace) will be
applied to funds onlent to the Government. Maturities for subsidiary loans
to the commercial banks for technical assistance purposes will be for a
maximum of 10 years (including maximum three years grace).  Subloans made
by the intermediary banks to the final beneficiaries will have maturities
of not more than ten years, including a maximum three-year grace period.
The intermediary banks will repay the funds onlent by them to the
enterprises back to NBH on a back-to-back basis. NBH will repay the Bank
loan on a fixed amortization schedule. Subloan repayments surplus over the
Bank loan repayments requirements of NBH will again be onlent by NBH to the
commercial banks for financirng of restructuring projects and investment
needs in subsectors/enterprises which are eligible for financing under the
Project.
6.10      Eligibility criteria for subprojects under the Project components
for subsector restructuring and feeder industry development have been
agreed  with  the  Hungarian  authorities  as  follows.    The  appraised
subprojects of subsectoral infrastructure institutes and enterprises
(para 5.12) would be eligible for financing under the Project. Enterprises
in the rubber processing, agricultural machinery, food processing machinery
and plastics processing uubsectors will be eligible to apply for financing
of  their  restructuring  projects  under  the  subsector  restructuring
component.   All such projects should be supported by a restructuring
program for the applying enterprise along the lines described in
Annex 5-4.  Further, only enterprises are eligible which obtain at least
30% of their sales revenues from subsector products (para 5.19). The seven
selected subsector enterprises (para 4.10) would be eligible for Project
financing of their organization and systems measures developed in the
course of project preparation as part of their restructuring programs,
while their specific production-oriented subprojects (para 5.18) will be



- 39 -
reviewed and approved by the intermediary commercial banks and RPO based on
eligibility criteria described below. In respect of the feeder industries
component, projects related to the manufacture of parts, components and
subassemblies will be eligible for financing.  At least 70% of the output
from  the  projected  invest*ent  should  be  soWd  to  other  enterprises
(para 5.04). Further, the feeder industry enterprises must operate in the
industrial sector and must have prepared acceptable restructuring programs
covering their entire operations.   For the two components the following
additional  criteria apply:    (i) subprojects must  provide a projected
financial and economic rate of return of at least 18%; (ii) enterprises
should have a satisfactory projected financial situation permitting them to
maintain a current ratio above 1.3, a debt/equity ratio below 65/35, and a
debt service coverage above 1.5; (iii) the maximum size of individual
subloans for the feeder industry component will be US$2.0 million and for
the subsector restructuring component US$5.0 million; and (iv) a single
enterprise will not be eligible to receive more than US$4.0 million in
subloans under the feeder industry component and US$10.0 million under the
subsector restructuring component. For both components, the free limit for
the  intermediary  banks  will  be  US$2.0  million.    In  addition,  each
intermediary bank will submit the appraisal packages for the first two
subloans of each Project component for prior Bank review irrespective of
subloan size. For projects considered eligible for support by the Project,
financing could be provided for technical assistance, training, plant and
equipment, spares and tools.
6.11        In addition, industrial enterprises which meet the financial
criteria under para 6.10(ii) above, are eligible for financing of foreign
consultants to carry out studies for preparation of their restructuring
programs (para 5.20).  The maximum size of subloans for such purpose will
be US$0.2 million.
C. Procurement
6.12       Procurement procedures for the restructuring imports component
have, been designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring
efficiency and economy. A limited positive list of goods will be eligible
for  financing  (para  5.02).    Import  contracts  with  a  value  below
US$3.0 million each would be procured in accordance with domestic
procurement practices on the basis of invitation of price quotations from
at least three suppliers from countries eligible for Bank financing.
Import contracts worth US$3.0 million or more would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines for import programs.  Bid documents for the first
three contracts estimated to cost over US$3.0 million each would be subject
to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation.   The importing
enterprises, assisted by foreign trade organizations where they so desire,
will be responsible for procurement.
6.13        All services, equipment and supplies to be procured under the
other components of the Bank loan will be procured in accordance with Bank
consultants and procurement guidelines. ICB will be used for equipment and
supplies  packages,  each  with  an  estimated  value  of  more  than
US$1.0 million. The participation of Hungarian suppliers in the bidding is
expected to be very limited since equipment and supplies expected to be



- 40 -
procured under the Project are generally not manufactured in Hungary.
Hungarian enterprises competing under ICB will be eligible for a 15X
preference on the CIF value of the bids, or the amount of customs duties
and taxes, whichever is lower. Exceptions to ICB will be made for items
under contracts each with an estimated value of less than US$1.0 million,
proprietary equipment, items the supply of which is limited to selected
suppliers or critical for efficient project execution, and technical
licenses.   In such case bid packages may be procured through limited
international bidding (LIB) and special contracting.   Bid packages each
with an estimated value below US$50,000 may be procured through
international shopping based on price quotations from at least three
suppliers from eligible countries.  Consulting services would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines.   Local expenditures for works and
equipment will be procured under prevailing local procedures which provide
for efficient and economic procurement.
6.14        All bid packages for equipment and supplies estimated to cost
over US$1.0 million equivalent, and bid packages for licenses and
consulting services would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documentation.   In addition,  the first three packages for
subsector restructuring and Seeder industries components each, with an
estimated cost of less than US$1.0 million equivalent, will be subject to
the Bank's prior review.   Since specific subprojects under the feeder
industries and subsector restructuring components largely have not been
appraised, the detailed breakdown of procurement arrangements by Project
components can not be estimated accurately.   It is estimated that the
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation would cover about 45 of
the total estimated value of contracts. The balance of contracts would be
subject to random ex-post review after contract award.
D. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
6.15       The allocation of the proposed Bank loan of US$150 million is as
follows:



- 41 -
Table 6.1
ALlocation of Bank Low
~$million equiZwimit)
ham  Aw %t   2 of ,tg&tures To Be Finaeed
1estructurg imports              40.0   100% of foreig eeditutes
Twchnical Assist Woe              2.0)
(Tforimtio Stm)                     )
Funds Onlent to Cownrzunt:              ) 100% of foreigp epnitues and 100% of
Tecbnical Assist :              )    )   local expen%itures (ew-factory cost) for
Support for Refom Progra      ) 5.0)   goods and 1001 oE foreiip expditur  for
S es                          )     ) 'ooaltant servie  ar! trainiM
Technical Assistanoe for RIPO  )    )
M& w1et to ilmnfflm  DOM:
Temical Assistance                0.7  100% of forein epndits
Fubnds (lit to Otber Baks:
TecAnial Assistance (.iwSdi0) 1   of fori   e                 i     a    0   of
I formtion SyStee))                     local expdtrs (ex-factory mst) for
)    Bgo   and 100% of forei  expenditures for
Funds  lent to Gmrdal SubborroSiv:      )   consultants' services, teUCna  licerSe
Tecinical Assistanoe              1.8)   and ttvinl%
Subsector _t   wirj Subprojects   44.0)
Feeder Irnstry Supojects         46.0)
Iballocae                          10.0
Total                         150.0
6.16         For the restructuring imports component of the Project,  all
disbursements for contracts valued at less than US$3.0 million equivalent
woul4 be on the basis of statement of expenditure (SOB) which detail the
individual transactions.   The documentation to support these expenditures
would be retained by the NBH, audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank, and made available for review by the Bank upon request.
Applications for withdrawal against contracts valued at more than
US$3.0 million equivalent will be fully documented. Similarly for the other
Project components, applications for withdrawal against contracts valued at
less than US$200,000 equivalent would be on the basis of SOE, while
withdrawal applications against contracts over US$200,000 equivalent will
be fully documented.
6.17       To facilitate the Borrower's access to the loan funds, NBH will
establish two revolving fund accounts.   For the account established for
the import support component, the Bank will make an initial deposit of
US$15.0 million, and for the remainder an initial deposit of US$5.0 million
(equivalent to average 4-months' expenditures).   Since it is anticipated
that disbursements for the restructuring imports component will be
completed within 12 months of loan effectiveness, NBH will submit
withdrawal applications for replenishment of amounts not less than



- 42 -
US$5.0 million.   Applications for replenishment of the second revolving
fund will be for amounts not less than US$1.7 million.
6.18      It is anticipated that the Bank loan will be completely disbursed
by  June  1994  in accordance with  the  disbursement  schedule  given  in
Annex 6-2.  The disbursement schedule for the Bank loan has been estimated
based  on  the  following  assumptions:    (i)  the  restructuring  imports
component would be disbursed within 12 months of loan effectiveness; and
(ii)  for  the  other  loan proceeds,  principally  the  feeder  industries
component and subsector restructuring component, the standard disbursement
profile for EMENA-industry has been used as a basis.
E. Reporting and Auditing
6.19       As under the first project, the progress of reform actions will
be reported by, and discussed by Bank staff with, the Restructuring Council
at three to six month intervals (para 6.02). NBH will report quarterly on
the progress of procurement and disbursements for the restructuring imports
component.   The beneficiaries under the technical assistance and banking
system support components will submit semiannual reports through NBH.
6.20         The beneficiary enterprises and institutes under the feeder
industry and subsector restructuring components will submit semiannual
progress reports to the RPO, which will verify and consolidate the reports
and submit them periodically to NBR.  NBH will consolidate these reports
with the reports on the industry-wide restructuring component and forward
them to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each period. NBH
will retain the annual audited financial statements of beneficiary
enterprises and institutes for Bank review during supervision missions.
Within four months of the closing date of the Bank loan, NBH will prepare
and furnish to the Bank a project completion report dealing with the
Project's implementation, initial operations and the costs and benefits
derived and expected to be derived.   The above reporting procedures and
contents of the reports have been finalized at negotiations.
6.21          All project accounts,  the revolving funds,  statements of
expenditure, and the financial statements of the Project entities will be
audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. Short form annual audit reports for the preceding fiscal year
will be available to the Bank no later than the end of May each year. The
annual financial statements of the intermediary banks will also be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank at the end of each fiscal
year.  As the General Banking and Trust Company, which used to carry out
such audits for project entities under previous Bank loans, has itself been
converted into a commercial bank, its audit functions are being separated
into an independent organization, which will audit all banks as well as the
beneficiaries under the Project. The General Banking and Trust Company had
been assessed by the Bank as acceptable for such purpose, and the new
arrangemtent can also be considered adequate.



- 43 -
F. Status of Project Preparation
l
6.22       The Restructuring Council, coordinated by the NPO and supported
by the Policy Tack Force, has been in existence since June 1985 and is
responsible for the development and monitoring of the industrial policy
reform program (para 6.02).   For other elements under the industry-wide
restructuring component, eligibility criteria and onlending arrangements
for the feeder industries component have been agreed, while terms of
reference for the feeder industries study have been finalized. Technical
assistance and equipment needs for the banking system support have been
formulated,  while  main  technical  assistance  components  for  policy
formulation,  and  program  and  institutional  development  have  been
identified.    For  the  subsector  restructuring  component,  the  Steering
Committee and the RPO have been established under the first industrial
restructuring project. Measures to strengthen the RPO have been finalized
(para 6.05).  The restructuring strategies for the selected subsectors and
main subsector enterprises including related software investment measures
have been appraised and terms of reference for technical assistance to the
main subsector enterprises for organization and systems development have
been agreed (para 5.15); onlending arrangements (para 6.06), eligibility
criteria  (para  6.10),  procurement  methods  (para  6.12),  and  reporting
procedures (para 6.19), have been agreed; and advertising of the general
procurement  notice  has  been  carried  out.    Appraisal  of  the  three
intermediary commercial banks has been completed (para 4.04).
VII. BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
A. Impact of Industrial Policy Reform Program
7.01      The principal benefits of the proposed Project, as for the first
industrial restructuring project, derive from the industrial policy reform
program.    The proposed Project aims  in particular to strengthen  the
implementation  of  the  policy,  regulatory  and  institutional  changes
introduced to date under the program, and to enhance their effectiveness in
achieving the objectives of improved competition, financial discipline, and
resource mobility within the domestic economy.  This second phase of the
industrial policy reform prqgram focuses on supporting the coordinated
preparation of a major tax reform and of measures to liberalize and
rationalize pricing, wage and enterprise income regulation during 1987, in
order to permit the introduction of these changes in a coherent manner in
1988.   The important step of monitoring and evaluating the practical
implementation and the impact of measures undertaken to date will be a
major feature of the program during 1987 in the areas of enterprise entry,
liquidation, international trade, labor mobility, enterprise management
system, banking, direct foreign investment, and technology development.
These assessments will feed back into the identification of further actions
and refinements of policy to be implemented in 1988 and later years. The
component of the Project providing industry-wide support through technical
assistance and related services will augment the Government's resources for
analysis and implementation of further policy and institutional reforms; in
1987, this support will be directed in particular to developing the
refloatation  agency,  regulation  of  imperfect  markets,  tax  reform,
retraining, accounting and auditing, and promotion of joint ventures.



- 44 -
7.02        The industrial policy reform program is expected to lead to
improvements in the overall efficiency of investment and changes in its
structure.  The investments/GDP ratio is expected to remain at about 26%
throughout the decade, with the productivity of investment increasing as a
result of improved project selection and higher levels of capacity
utilization.   Further, the current program of technological development
would  result  in  improvements  in the use of capital.    Based on the
assumption that the comprehensive set of reform policies will be carried
out during the rest of decade, it is expected that the industrial sector
would achieve an average growth rate of 3% per year during the second half
of the decade with further increases in exports to convertible currency
markets.   In the absence of these reform policies, Hungary's industrial
sector would continue to lose competitiveness while productivity would
probably show minimal growth or a decline.   The proposed restructuring
imports component will provide tangible support to the industrial policy
reform program by helping to finance a share of the imports which are
required as a result of industry-wide restructuring.
i. Imact of Specific Restructuring Measures
7.03          The feeder industries component will help to improve the
structure of the industrial sector and the efficient supply of components
and parts to industrial enterprises, while the Project will help to
identify measures to address the constraints toward feeder industry
development in Hungary (para 5.04).
7.04        the subsectoral restructuring program is expected to generate
significant benefits to the Hungarian economy.   The Project will help to
accelerate  the  supply-response  to  the  economic  reform  program  by
stimulating the restructuring of the selected subsectors as well as
providing support for the development of small-: and medium-sized
enterprises for component supply under the feeder industries component.
The restructuring approaches developed under the Project for the subsectors
and its main enterprises will also serve as demonstration cases for the
design of restructuring programs in other enterprises/subsectors and it is
expected that the implementation of these programs will induce further
restructuring  among  enterprises.    The  Project  would  also  contribute
significantly  to  the  strengthening  of  the  Hungarian  institutional
capability to develop and implement restructuring programs (para 6.05).
7*05       It is expected that the restructuring strategies developed for
the three subsectors under this Project 7/ will contribute towards
improvements in their structure, including a specialization of firms along
their core business activities while abandoning or separating other
unrelated activities, with emphasis on achieving a viable scale of
enterprise operations. Further, the product-mix of the subsectors will be
oriented toward more competitive product segments with related narrowing of
product lines to achieve better economies of scale. The measures proposed
under the Project would lead to improved cost competitiveness of subsector
enterprises as a result of rationalization and specialization of production
7/ Details for the plastics processing subsector are given in the Staff
Appraisal Report for the first industrial restructuring project
(Report No. 6069-HU, May 1986).



- 45 -
facilities,  improvement  of  production  organization,  introduction  of
up-to-date technology, and reduction of surplus labor. Further, the market
orientation of enterprises will be increased through improvements in
enterprise organization and management systems with emphasis on strategie
planning, marketing and cost control and related training of enterprise
personnel.
7.06        The improved competitiveness of the subsectors would have a
beneficial impact on the country's trade balance through increases in
direct and indirect exports, and efficient import substitution.   It is
expected that a larger share of output will be directed to convertible
currency exports.   Overall, direct convertible currency exports of the
three  subsectors  are  expected  to  increase  by  about  50-60%  from
US$67 million in 1985 to US$100-110 million in 1990 (in 1985 prices). Due
to the restructuring nature of the Project, and the current surplus
employment in the three subsectors, overall employment in the subsectors is
expected to decrease by 12-18S as a result of the Project, leading to
improved productivity and cost competitivenesse Such shedding of surplus
labor would be facilitated by recent compensation and retraining measures
under  the  policy  reform program  (para  3.16).    Further,  the  Project
contributes toward improving the specific policy eoivironment for the three
subsectors through the liberalization of pricing for agricultural machinery
production, and the lowering of import tariffs for food processing
machinery (para 3.27) which will stimulate import competition as impetus
for more efficient operations and restructuring.   Further details on the
expected impact of the restructuring programs on the structure and
performance of the three subsectors is given in Annex 3-2, vhile the impact
on the performance of the seven selected subsector enterprises is
summarized in Annex 5-3.
C. Naior Risks
7.07      A major risk that could adversely affect future implementation of
the industrial policy reform program stems from the unfavorable trend o'
macro-economic developments in 1986, and the lack of improvement in the
supply response of enterprises. The Hungarian authorities are well aware
of the urgency of reversing this trend, both to protect the momentum of the
reform and to maintain the country's creditworthiness rating in the
international  financial  community.    The  commitment  of  the  Hungarian
authorities to redress the macro-economic imbalances (paras 2.03-2.05) and
close monitoring of the macro-economic situation and policies by the Bank
will increase the prospect that appropriate measures will be implemented to
redress the imbalances and restore a climate conducive to the economic
reform.    Further, a lax implementation of  the  reforms,  such  as  the
liquidation framework, already in place would raise doubts concerning the
seriousness of the reform within Hungary and among international observers,
and would impede the essential improvements of efficiency and competition
in the economy.  In this circumstance, confidence in the reform process
would erode and further forward movement in other policy areas would be at
risk.    The  Bank's  ongoing  economic  and  sector  work  dialogue,  and
supervision of the restructuring projects, will be important in helping to
identify weaknesses in implementation of the reforms, and to sustain the
progress of the overall industrial policy reform program.  An industrial
restructuring strategy paper planned for early FY88 will focus in



- 46 -
particular on diagnosing problems of the supply response and proposing
solutions at both the enterprise and industry-wide levels.
7.08         The success of the feeder industries component will depend
critically on the pace of future 4evelopment of such small- to medium-sized
feeder industry enterprises which is expected to be accelerated by the
actions undertaken by the Hungarian authorities to facilitate the creation
of SMEs under the policy reform program (para 3.06). In this respect, the
component under the Project is of a pilot nature and relatively modest in
comparison  to  the  overall  needs  for  developing  these  industries
(para 5.03).
7.09             Concerning  the  subsector  restructuriAg  component,  the
restructuring approach developed under the first project for plastics
processing and further elaborated for the three selected subsectors under
the Project, involves a new concept for Hungary.   The objectives of the
Project would be met fully only if this approach is applied widely in the
selected subsectors and eventually spreads throughout the industrial
sector. The joint appraisal of the restructuring programs of the selected
subsectors, including the active involvement of the top managements of the
main enterprises should help in sustaining the commitment of these
enterprises to the restructuring approach. Further, the actions under the
Project to build up the institutional capacity in Hungary to develop,
appraise  and  implement  restructuring  projects  by  strengthening  the
capabilities of the enterprises, the intermediary commercial banks and the
RPO in this respect, as well as the local consulting capacity through their
involvement in subsector-wide and enterprise specific studies carried out
by international consultants (para 5.15), should reduce the risk of
achieving only a limited impact.
7.10      Another risk concerns the involvement of the new commercial banks
in the onlending of Bank funds and their capacity to evaluate and supervise
enterprise subprojects, including for feeder industries and subsector
restructuring projects, satisfactorily.   This risk is considered to be
limited following the extensive appraisal of the new banks by the Bank, the
necessary technical assistance provided under the Project, and the
assistance by the RPO in the technical appraisal of restructuring
subprojects  (para 6.05).   Finally,  the complex nature of the Project,
necessitates a good organization to monitor and follow-up closely on the
implementation of various Project components.  To address this risk, much
attention has been given to establishing satisfactory project coordination
arrangements  in  Hungary  (para  6.01).       Substantial  supervision  and
monitoring on the part of Bank staff will continue to be required and is
planned.
VIII. AGREEMENTS
8.01       The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBH and the
Government, and of subsidiary financing agreements between NBH and at least
two eligible intermediary banks is proposed as a condition of Bank loan
effectiveness  (para 6.06).   Further,  signature of subsidiary financing
agreements between NBH and the intermediary banks, and of subsidiary
lending agreements between NBH and other banks, is a condition of
disbursement to them (para 6.06).



- 47 -
8.02          At negotiations, the Government has agreed that it will:
(1) carry out a study on constraints for feeder industry development and
implement its recommendations thereafter (para 5.04), (ii) ensure the
timely availability of funds for the RPO for its operations (para 6.04);
(iii) ensure the prompt availability of funds when necessary to complete
the Project (para 5.27); (iv) maintain a Restructuring Council, Steering
Committee and a Restructuring Program Office with qualified personnel and
with foreign technical assistance (paras 6.02 and 6.04); and (v) procure
goods and services in accordance with Bank guidelines (para 6,12) and
follow agreed reporting and auditing requirements (para 6.19).
8.03         At negotiations, NBH has agreed that it will:  (i) include
intermediary banks acceptable to the Bank (para 4.06); (ii) provide foreign
exchange for import financing in accordance with the agreed positive list
of goods (para 5.02); (iii) appoint fore'gn consultants to review the
information systems concept for the banking system (5.08); (iv) provide
necessary funds to commercial banks to meet subloan requirements of
eligible subprojects (para 5.27); (v) use subloan repayment surplus over
the Bank loan repayments of NBH to refinance eligible subprojects
(para 6.09); and (vi) procure goods and services in accordance with Bank
guidelines  (para  6.12)  and  follow  agreed  reporting  and  auditing
requirements (para 6.19).
8.04      NBH has also confirmed the following:
(a)  Assurances  in  the  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements  with  the
three currently eligible intermediary banks with regard to:
(i)  execution  of  the  training  program  for  their  staff
(para 4.04); and (ii) arrangement to have their subscribed share
capital paid in by June 1988 (para 4.04);
(b)  Assurances  in  the  Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements  with  the
intermediary banks:   (i) maintenance of their interest rates in
accordance with principles agreed with the Bank (para 4.05);
(ii)  appraisal  of  subprojects  and  supervision  of  their
implementation  in  accordance  r-4th  policies  and  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (paras 6.05 and 6.10); (ili) lending by
commercial banks in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria
and on agreed terms and conditions (paras 6.08 through 6.10);
(iv) approval by the Bank of the first two subproject packages
from each commercial bank for both the subsector restructuring
component and the feeder industry component as a condition for
making subloans under each of these components (para 6.10); and
(v) procurement by commercial banks of goods and services in
accordance with Bank guidelines (para 6,12) and following agreed
reporting and auditing requirements (para 6.19);
(c) Assurances in the Subsidiary Financing Agreements with regard to
inclusion by intermediary banks in subloan agreements with
Project beneficiaries of following provisions. (i) that subsector
enterprises will follow the agreed restructuring strategies and
appoint consultants, as required, to assist in implementation of
the agreed organization and systems strategies (paras 5.15 and



- 48 -
5e17); (ii) design and operation of all Project facilities in
accordance with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.19); (iii) timely provision by the Project beneficiaries
of their share of financing (par& 5.27); and (iv) compliance by
beneficiaries  with  financial  covenants  (para  6.10),  Bank
procurement and consultant gtuidelines (para 6.12), and reporting
and auditing requirements (para 6.19);
(d)  Assurances  in  the  Subsidiary  Lending  Agreements  with  other
banks with regard to procurement of goods and consultant services
in accordance with Bank guidelines (para 6.12) and following
agreed reporting and auditing requirements (para 6.19).
8e05       On the basis of the Government's updated letter of industrial
policy intent, staff appraisal and the above agreements, the Project is
considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$150 million for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
The establishment of two revolving funds of US$15 million and US$5 million,
respectively, is recommnded L4er the proposed loan (para 6.17).  The loan
will be made to the National Bank of Hungary and guaranteed by the
Government.
Industry Department
May 1987



- 49 -
AMNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 7 pages
May 8, 1987
Mr. W.A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wapenhans:
Re: Statement Concernina the Development of Economic Conditions
for Industrial Restructurin in Hungary
I am writing thiu letter in reference to the proposed second industrial
restructuring loan, and pursuant to the Hungarian Government's Letter of
Intent of May 6, 1986, addressed to Mr. Clausen in connection with the first
industrial restructuring project.
I would like to take this opportunity to present the recent
developments in the economic conditions for industrial restructuring in
Hungary, and the actions adopted by the Government to realise the plans and
objectives outlined in our earlier letter. As agreed in our supplemental
letter to the Guarantee Agreement for the first industrial restructuring
project, I enclose two attachments: the first listing the actions taken since
Board presentation of that project through the end of 1986 with respect to
each area of the policy matrix; and the second listing actions taken in 1987,
further elaboration of the measures indicated in the matrix, and additional
measures to be implemented in the future.
The performance of the economy in 1986 lagged behind the plans in a
number of important respects. While we continued to develop the economic
conditions, as we had committed ourselves to do, the actions taken have not
yet resulted in a substantial improvement in economic development. As will be
indicated below, both external and domestic factors contributed to the
unfavourable trends in 1986.
It is the Hungarian Government's firm intention to accelerate the
implementation of the reforms and to introduce the necessary actions as soon
as possible in order to facilitate the structural shift in production towards
activities with a strong potential for growth and exports, and to create
greater incentives for efficiency based on increased reliance on market
instruments.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 7 pages
Macroeconomic Developments in 1986
As we noted in our Letter of Intent, we had expected that a more
favourable macroeconomic balance created by stabilization efforts in 1986
would make it possible to embark on medium-term structural adjustment. In
reality both internal and external imbalances deteriorated further in 1986.
While GDP increased by 1.32, total absorption grew by 31. The extent of
growth in domestic absorption indicates that demand management was not
sufficiently effective. The budget deficit amounted to Ft 47 billion, or 41
of GDP in contrast with Ft 23 billion (21 of GDP) as planned for 1986.
Correspondingly, the trade balance in convertible currency moved from a
surplus of $295 million in 1985 to a deficit of $539 million, and the current
account deficit widened from $457 million to $1.4 billion.
This decline in the trade balance stemmed partly from a number of
exogenous factors. Terms of trade, particularly for agricultural comaodities
and hydrocarbon products, co%ntinued to worsen. Last summer's drought (mainly
affecting the surplus to be exported in 1987) and the Chernobyl accident also
caused a drop in agricultural exports. According to our estimation these
three factors (and the increase in coffee prices) accounted for about a $400
million deterioration in the trade balance.
The plan target to increase exports was not achieved. Agricultural
exports declined, mainly for the above reasons, while industrial exports
basically stagnated at the 1985 level.
The volume of imports in convertible currency exceeded the planned
level, increasing by about 1.31. The increase in imports of industrial
commodities, evident for the second year in a row, can partly be attributed to
the greater flexibility in granting foreign trading rights, and from this
point of view was not entirely unexpected. The increase in imports was most
notable for machinery and spare parts as well as consumer goods. For the
first time since 1979, the increased import of machinery was accompanied by 21
real growth in gross fixed investments. Investment growth was the most marked
in the manufacturing industries, which is an important factor in improving
competitiveness.
Several reasons accounted for the deterioration of the state budget
position. Revenues did not increase to a sufficient extent due to the lower
than planned level of generated incomes. The increase in public expenditure
resulted partly from the outlays due to the worsening terms of trade, partly
from the impact of increase in producer and consumer subsidies and from
expenditures for the refloatation of financially troubled enterprises.
Responding to the early signs of growiag macroeconomic imbalances, the
Government adopted three sets of measures. First, to strengthen demand
management, regulations concerning the enterprise wage bills were tightened
and as a result taxes on earnings were increased. Although the measures did
not succeed in preventing a rise in real wages (1.61), they helped to curb
their rate of growth. In addition, in the case of some centrally financed
investments as vell as other items affecting the budget, cuts in expenditure
were achieved. Second, the Government promoted the design and implementation



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 7 pages
of restructuring programs for the largest loss-making enterprises as well as
for coal mining, ferrous metallurgy, meat and high construction industries.
Third, as a measure affecting the balance of payments, during the year the
forint was devalued by a total of 121 against the basket of convertible
currencies. To ensure the effectiveness of the devaluation, steps were taken
to increase the profitability of convertible currency exports relative to
sales to other markets. Incentives associated with export-oriented
investments were strengthened and an increasing share of medium and long-term
credits was used for such investments. The real impact of these measures, and
thus an increase in exports, are expected only after 1986.
There are two major lessons drawn from the economy's recent
unfavourable performance. The first is that the ongoing overall reform of the
economic management system must be implemented in a consistent and coherent
way to have its intended effect on enterprise performance and to elicit the
expected supply response. Fundamental change is necessary to ensure that
enterprises act with financial responsibility or face the threat of
bankruptcy. Second, there is a need for more effective instruments of
monetary and fiscal policy which can be used without constraining enterprise
autonomy and distorting incentives.
Measures Taken in 1986 Concerning the Economic Conditions
Since the beginning of 1986, the Government has taken measures to
develop further the economic management system in order to increase the
mobility of domestic resources and stimulate capital flow, enhance
competition, and strengthen managerial and financial discipline based on
enterprise autonomy. A decisive step in this field was the enactment of the
law for liquidation of insolvent enterprises as well as the new legal
framework for refloatation. At the same time, measures were introduced to
compensate workers released from inefficient employment and to facilitate more
efficient employment through State financing of retraining programs. The law
on corporate associations has been amended, permitting domestic economic
entities to form joint stock and limited liability companies without prior
approval of the Government.
The two-tier competitive banking system became operational at the
beginning of 1987 with the establishment of five domestic commercial banks.
In addition, there are a number of specialized financial institutions. The
number of banks with foreign participation has increased. The bond market has
continued to develop rapidly; different forms of bonds have been issued,
including the one with a fee-based guarantee. Progress has been made in
attracting direct foreign investments. Preparatory work has been stepped up
to permit the new tax system (VAT and personal income tax) to be introduced in
January 1988.
The import competition and export promotion programs have been
implemented as stated in our Letter of Intent.               j
About 802 of the state industrial enterprises have been transferred to
the new autonomous management system and the first phase of the program to
decentralize some of the largest state enterprises has been completed.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 7 pages
We are fully aware that the introduction of the liquidation law and new
forms of enterprise mangement will not have the desired macroeconomic effect
as long as the expectation remains that the State will come to the rescue of
loss-making enterprises; therefore, we intend to strictly enforce the
liquidation law. In this context, we plan to sharply reduce the role of the
budget in financial intermediation.
It is expected that the newly formed commercial banks will exert their
influence under the conditions of a monetary policy conducive to greater
capital mobility and stronger financial discipline among business entities.
We have concluded that for enterprises to become truly autonomous, and for
enterprise decision-naking to reflect market discipline, there is a need to
simplify regulators with a special regard to pricing, taxation and wage policy.
Main Obiectives of Macroeconomic Policy in 1987
The objectives of the national economic plan for 1987 focus on
accelerating economic adjustment to reflect major international trends,
including structural adjustment, technological development and the increase of
economic efficiency. We intend that the debt in convertible currency will
increase at a much more moderate rate than in 1986.
The aim of economic policy under the Plan is to ensure that incomes of
both enterprises and individuals reflect differentials in performance. We
will promote the development of production activities which meet export and
domestic demand most efficiently. Investment will primarily increase in the
manufacturing industries and will be reduced in the non-productive sector.
Explicit measures to curtail unprofitable production will be taken as
described below.
The state budget for 1987 envisioned a strict fiscal policy, including
a decrease in real terms in the expenditure of publicly financed
organizations, in support to enterprises in financial difficulty, and in
production subsidies.
In evaluating the 1986 ecpnomic results, it became apparent that these
were more unfavorable than we had expected when preparing the 1987 national
economic plan and State budget. Therefore, the Government has determined that
in addition to measures taken in the framework of this year's plan, further
actions are needed in order to meet the planned target of reducing the
convertible currency current account deficit to $700-800 million in 1987, and
to facilitate the necessary changes in the economy.
We intend to reduce the deficit of the national budget to Ft 30
billion (in contrast to the approvtd Ft 44 billion), in order to be consistent
with the balance of payments objective. Towards achieving this target,
expenditures of organizations and institutes financed by the State budget,
producer subsidies, and State financing of some investments have already been
decreased, while prices of energy and the consumption tax on certain products
have been increased, in comparison to the levels originally approved. We will
take additional measures so that the indicated level of the State budget
deficit is not exceeded.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 7 pages
As a further measure to restrain domestic demand, conditions of
granting refinancing credits to enterprises have been made more severe, both
in order to reduce the excessive liquidity generated at the end of 1986, and
to make banks interested in attracting enterprise deposits.
Export stimulating measures taken in 1986 already have improved export
capacity of enterprises. We maintain an active policy of exchange rate
adjustment, as evidenced by the action taken to devalue the forint by another
8% against convertible currencies at the beginning of 1987. We expect that
the foreign trade deficit will be eliminated in 1987. We intend to pursue a
cautious policy on external borrowing in 1987 and to ensure that new medium
and long-term loans finance productive investments rather than consumption.
We shall monitor the trade performance in 1987 and continuously take necessary
actions to achieve the target.
Living standards of the population are to be stabilized at the average
level of 1985-1986, which implies a decline compared to 1986. Real income and
consumption of the population are to be reduced by more than 12, which is
grenter than the planned figure; real wages thus will decrease by 3-42 below
the 1986 level. The 1987 plan already assumed a faster rate of grovth in
consumer prices (71) than had been decided earlier; based on actions taken in
April, the consumer price level will increase at a rate of about 9S. In order
to encourage household savings, interest rates of different savings policies
are being raised by 1X in 1987, and new incentives for savings will be
introduced.
We expect that the above measures will result in a moderate economic
growth rate of 2% in 1987, as the reallocation of resources from less
efficient to more efficient enterprises and the increase in investments will
not have an immediate effect.
Main Actions in 1987 Concerning the Economic Conditicns
Starting in 1987, all enterprises unable to resolve financial losses
with their own means are subject to the procedures established by the law on
liquidation. Assistance from the State for refloatation will be provided only
oan the conditions outlined in the law. Central financial intervention prior
to insolvency may only be initiated in exceptional cases and with the approval
at the Council of Ministers. The absolute amount of such state asziatance
will continuously be reduced.
We expect that as the result of the liquidation law, a strict attitude
on the part of the central budget and commercial banks, an increasing number
of enterprises will be forced to restructure or face liquidation. In cases
where the state agrees to refloatation, budgetary resources will not be
provided to cover all the related-costs, but to supplement the contributions
of the enterprise and its creditors. Fulfillment of restructuring programs
which have been agreed for given subsectors are continuously monitored and
evaluated.
The most profitable enterprises, on the basis of the 1987 balance
sheet, will be entitled to profit tax rebate to promote their development.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 7 pages
We attach great importance to the tax reform, including the
introduction of the value-edded tax and the personal income tax. We consider
them the means of reducing the burden of direct taxation on enterprises and
providing efficient income differentiation based on objective criteria. We
intend to complete preparatory work this year in order to introduce the new
taxes in early 1988. We also intend to use the opportunity of the tax reform
to strengthen the relationship between performance, taxes and wage regulation,
and to make the necessary changes in pricing.
The so-called export pricing rule ifor processir.g industry has been
removed in connection with the latest devaluation of the forint. In
accordance with the tax reform, a pricing policy for the longer term is under
preparation.
A new law on corporate association is currently being prepared for
introduction in 1989, aiming to further develop the conditions for creation
and growth of limited liability and shareholding companies. It is the
Government's intention to widen the scope of the new enterprise management
system, to decentralize some mor? state enterprises, and to promote the
organization of new autonomous enterprises.
Following a review of the experience of the new banking system, we will
take steps to further develop that system in 1987-88. Propbsals under
preparation cover, inter alia, the integration of the household and enterprise
banking networks and other actions promoting the mobilization and efficient
allocation of capital.
In 1987, we shall elaborate changes in the accounting and auditing
system in connection with the tax reform and in order to identify additional
ways in which the system can be made to function more effectively as a source
of useful information on enterprise performance for managers, creditors and
potential investors. In 1987, we plan to complete a number of major studies
initiated earlier, in the areas of enterprise management, regulation of
imperfect markets, reform of the financial sector, pricing, direct foreign
investment, corporate marketing and sales policies to promote a more
successful performance of Hungarian products on the key export markets, as
well as in the area of small enterprise development. We will continue to
assess the effectiveness of measures taken to date in each area of the reform
program and will identify further adjustments needed.
***** ******
The institutional framework for the implementation of the program to
develop the economic conditions, and of the industrial restructuring program,
has been put into operation.  We believe that the framework is sound but needs
strengthening in some areas.  It is particularly important for enterprises to
be given increased assistance in designing and appraising restructuring
activities.  Modifications of the institutional framework of implementation
will be introduced in 1987 as appropriate.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 7 pages
The Government is currently preparing a medium-term program which will
accelerate the..implementation of the reform and the process of structural
adjustment, and is determined to take whatever measwures are necessary to
restore equilibrium in the economy. We believe that the actions outlined
above for 1987 will contribute to meeting these objectives. On behalf of the
Government of the Hungarian People's Republic, I reconfirm the Government's
continued commitment to the program of industrial restructuring and policy
reform as set out in our earlier Letter of Intent.
The World Bank's assistance, financial and otherwise, in this endeavour
has been very useful and we look-forward to continued consultations with your
staff on the issues mentioned above. I hereby request the World Bank to
assist in the further implementation of this program by extending its support
in the form of a second industrial restructuring loan to Hupgary.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Miklos Pulai
Governor of the World Bank for Hungary
Attachments



- 56 -                  ANEX 3-l
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY-SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Industrial Policy Reform Program
List of Actions taken Since Board Presentation
of First Industrial Restructuring Project (May 17, 1986)
through December 31, 1986
The following annex summarizes the actions taken during the above
period in each of the eleven areas of the industrial policy reform program.
The details provided serve as background to the discussion in Chapter III of
the report.
1.    Entry of Enterprises
(a)   Completed implementation of first phase of the decentralization
program.
(b)   Study initiated to assess the effectiveness of measures to
promote the development of SMEs.
2.    Liquidation of Enterprises
(a)   New legal framework for liquidation legislated, accompanied by
decree of Council of Ministers on economic refloatation by the State.
Procedure specified in the law is as follows:
(i)      Before petition for liquidation is presented to court,
compulsory conciliation is organized by Chamber of Commerce;
(ii)     If after 30 days conciliation fails, Chamber of Commerce
refers case to Ministry of Finance;
(iii)    Unless Ministry of Finance decides in favor of refloatation
within 30 days, either creditors or enterprise itself may file
petition for liquidation before court;
(iv)     Once court determines that enterprise is continuously
insolvent, court will refer case back to Ministry of Finance
to decide within 30 days whether to refloat the enterprise or
not; Ministry of Finance may order economic refloatation if
dissolution of the enterprise
would create grave regional employment problem,
- would endanger fulfillment of international agreements, or
- would endanger performance of national defense tasks.
The Council of Ministers may decide on other exceptional cases.
(v)      Economic refloatation by the State must be conducted within
three months (exceptionally si. months).
(vi)     If refloatation fails, ease iF taken up by court again and
liquidation proceeWi.v  resum'



; 57_                   ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 5
(b)   Established institutions to implement liquidation framework
(i.e., training of judges and receivers completed and
Refloatation Organization set up in Ministry of Finance).
(c)   Restructuring/refloatation plans developed and implementation
begun for (8) out of 26 large enterprises designated in critical
financial situation; a further (5) enterprises in group of 26
settled their financial problems through their own means, without
central assistance; treatment of 4 more enterprises was pending
as of end-1986 (see Annex 3-2, Attachment 2, Section 2b).
(d)   For 4 enterprises in coal mining, and for 5 enterprises in
metallurgy, subsectoral restructuring plans developed and
implementation begun.
(e)   Published decree requiring enterprises to make public certain
minimum financial data (capital assets, sales, and profits)
through the Court of Registration in the Ministry of Finance. By
the same decree, all companies issuing bonds are obliged to
publish annually the same data in a national daily paper or in a
technical periodical within 90 days following the depositing of
the balance sheet.
3.    International Trade
(a)   Implementation of Export Promotion Program continued.
Strengthened preferences available under the program
(accumulation tax eliminated, tax exemption increased).
(b)   Leasing fund and investment credit facility instituted to promote
machine lease from abroad for expanding convertible currency
exports; preferences include exemption from accumulation tax.
(c)   Initiated study of export experience in selected convertible
currency markets.
(d)   Duty drawback system modified as of July 1, 1986 to ensure
automaticity.
(e)   Nominal tariffs reduced to an average of 17.1% in 1986.
(f)   Preparations begun and methodology selected for carrying out
study of effective rates of protection.
(g)   Implementatikan of Import Competition Program started.
(h)   Devalued the forint against the basket of convertible currencies
by a total of 121 from January to September 1986.



-58 -                   ANNE% 3-1
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 5
4.    Pricing of Industrial Products
(e.) Price Club membership increased to cover 362 of manufacturing
output.
(b)   Initiated study of approaches to regulating imperfect markets
based on the Law of Unfair Economic Practices.
5.    Taxation
(b)   Main principles of VAT and personal income tax approved by State
Planning Commission, and preparations for introduction of new tax
system continued.
(e)   Began to formulate program for establishing financial and
institutional infrastructure required for introducing new tax
system.
6. tWase Differentiation and Worker Mobility
(a)   Share of industrial enterprises subject to earnings level
taxation (Category 1) increased to 652 in 1986.
(c)   Enacted legislation to provide state assistance to workers
released from enterprises in course of restructuring or
liquidation:
(i)   in case of employment termination due to restructuring,
period of notice given employee with full pay may be
extended to maximum of six months, including period covered
by collective bargaining contract; state budget reimburses
enterprise for pay during notice period which exceeds
collective bargaining agreement. If suitable employment
not found at expiration of notice period, employee may be
compensated at 752 of net earnings for next three months,
and 60% for additional three months.
(ii) in case of liquidation, employees receive full net salary
for up to six months from state budget; if suitable
employment not found, compensation provided for up to
additional six months as described in (i).
(iii) "suitable employment" defined as job corresponding to
employee's qualifications; not dangerous to health;
offering at least 90S of base salary in previous job; and
within two hours' daily commuting time.
(d)   Retraining programs receiving state support expanded from 5000
trainees, and Ft 50 million of direct support in 1985, to 10000
trainees and Ft 80 million itl 1986.



59 -                 ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 5
(e)   Initiated study of alternative institutional arrangements for
strengthening worker retraining program.
7.    Cagital Market              I
(a)   First bond issue floated with State guarantee provided for a fee.
(b)   Bonds issued to households by enterprises outside the range of
utility, infrastructure, and retail sectors (i.e., those offering
goods and services to the population). Total outstanding bond
issues to households correspondingly increased from 2.7 billion
Ft. in 1985 to 6.1 billion Ft. in 1986. Average coupon rate on
new household bond issues beginning to converge with enterprise
bond rate around 11 . In 1986, 10 of total bond trading was in
secondary market (up from 51 in 1985).
(c)   Initiated review of legal regulation of bond market, and prepared
proposals regarding guarantee system for investors, integration
of household and enterprise bond market, and entry of state
budget into bond market.
8.   Banking System 
(a)   New bank with foreign participation (Citibank) started operation.
(b)   Study of financial market development initiated with World Bank
assistance.
(c)   Monopoly of insurance services abolished; insurance agency
decentralized into two partially-competing companies as of
July 1, 1986.
(d)   Division of responsibility decided between NBH and Ministry of
Finance for supervision and regulation of new commercial banks.
(e)   Structure of new commercial banking system decided, with two
commercial banks to be formed from former credit departments of
NBH (the Hungarian General Credit Bank and National Trade and
Credit Bank), and one from the already independent Budapest
Creditbank and the former commercial banking operations of SDB
(Development and Credit Bank of Budapest). Division of branch
offices, staff, and balance sheets among the new banks
completed. Two additional banks-the Foreign Trade Bank and the
General Banking and Trust Company--chartered as commercial banks.
9.    Enterprise Management System
(a)   Completed implementation of the enterprise management system in
the remaining state and council enterprises, in coordination with
the first phase of the decentralization program.



-60 -                   ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 5
,(b)   Initiated study to assess the effectiveness of the enterprise
management system and identify needs for improvement.
(c)   Introduced measures to strengthen the link between the bonus of
managers and enterprise performance.
(d)   Began implementation of measures to support and enhance
mana,ement development and training.  National Center f¢r
Management Training (OVK) under State Office of Wages and Labor
organised courses for members of new enterprise councils.
10.   Ditect Foreisn Investment
(a)   Study initiated to design and launch a campaign to promote direct
foreign capital participation.
(b)   Signed bilateral treaties for promotion and protection of foreign
investment with West Germany and Belgium.
(c)   Established a new consulting organization (COPCONSULT) under the
Institute of Market Research to promote direct foreign investment.
11.   Technol2o& Development
(a)   Detailed plans have been elaborated, organizational schemes
formed, and implementation started for national and sectoral
programs of research and development.
(b)   Developed and began implementation of a program in selected
priority areas of technology development infrastructure,
including information dissemination, calibration, quality
control, industry-university cooperation, industrial standards
and property system.
(c)   Measures taken to strengthen the market orientation of R&D
investments:
(i)   decision taken to increase capital of innovation finance
institutions through contributions from central technical
development fund;
(ii)  proportion of industries' own contribution to
government-assisted R&D programs increased;
(iii) use of state contributions with repayment obligation
increased;
(iv)  participation of users in R&D projects encouraged.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 8
HUNGARY - SECOND IFDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF THE 1987 ACTIONS CONCERNING THE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
OF PTE INDUSTRIAL RESR7UCTURING PROGRAM
1.  Entry of Enterprises
(a) The law on co.porate association was amended as of January 1, 1987,
thereby enabling domestic enterprises to form shareholding and limited
liability companies, and enabling existing enterprises to convert
themselves partly into shareholding companies without prior Government
approval.
(b) Legal principles will be formulated and submitted for approval by the
end of 1987, for a new law on corporate association and related
institutional and regulatory modification,s with the aim of introduction
of law as of 1989. This preparation will Include, inter alia, an
assessment related to enabling individuals to form limdted liability
companies and to hold some form of negotiable shares.
(c) The measures to promote entry of enterprises and creation of
subsidiaries (exemption/reduction of property tax, profit tax deduction
for cost of expert consultants, equity aupport) have been extended for
the period after 1986. The measures apply both to enterprises under the
decentralization program and to all new enterprises formed under the
amended law of associations.
(d)  The effectiveness of the measures to promote entry and the need Por
further measures are being assessed. Recommendations issuing from this
assessment will be implemented beginning In 1988, taking into account
planned modifications in the tax system.
(e) Further measures to promote the creation and growth of SHE. are being
implemented (e.g., improved access to credit, infrastructure and
technical asistance services).
(f) The ongoing study of the effectiveness of measures providing support for
the development of SMEs will be completed in the first half of 1987. In
this connection, the impact of the existing taxes on small businesses Is
being investigated.  Recommendations for modifications or new measures
will be implemented in 1988, in conjunction with the tax reform and
changes in the social security contribution.
(g) The decentralization program is continuing. By September 1987, results
of the program will be assessed and a further schedule of actions will
be identified.



-62 -               ANNEX 3-l
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 8
2.   Liquidation of Enterprises
(a) The liquidation and refloatation procedures specified in the law are
being applied strictly and systematically. ** No central financial
intervention will be initiIted before insolvency of an enterprise is
determined by the court, except where granted in extraordinary cases by
the Council of Ministers. If central financial intervention has taken
place but the danger of insolvency reappears, no new central financial
intervention can be made; the enterprise will have recourse only to the
formal liquidation and refloatation procedures. Refloatation will be
applied only to enterprises with inherjnt economic viability and
development potential.
(b) Concerning the original group of 26 medium and large enterprises in
critical financial situation:
(i) the authorities are monitoring compliance with refloatation
agreements concluded with 4 enterprises in coal-mining and 5
enterprises in ferrous metallurgy, and assessing the effectiveness
of the restructuring programs being implemented in these two
subsectors. The current policies for enterprises in subsectors
with structural difficulties, such as coal mining and metallurgy,
will be examined from the viewpoint of long term economic
efficiency and implications for economy-wide structural adjustment;
(ii) in the cases of eight enterprises refloated with state
assistance, the authorities are monitoring the restructuring
programs elaborated and assessing compliance with refloatation
agreements;
(iii) in five cases, enterprises have dealt with their financial
problems through their own efforts, without financial assistance
from the State;
(iv) of the four remaining enterprises, refloatation is probable in
two cases; for the third enterprise, which initiated liquidation
proceedings against itself, an agreement has beei reached between
the enterprise and its creditors involving liquidation of some
assets and restructuring of remaining units of the firm; for the
final enterprise, a central decision is being prepared.
The State authorities will continue special monitoring of the activity
and development of enterprises in (i) and (iv).
(c) The capability of the Refloatation Organization to assess restructuring
proposals of enterprises, and thereafter monitor their implementation,
is being strengthened with the provision of appropriate staff
and technical assistance. The activities and effectiveness of the
Organization will be evaluated in the second half of 1987, and further
measures to strengthen it will be taken accordingly.
** Proceedings initiated under the law in several cases, including VAEV,
on enterprise of 3500 employees.



-63 -               ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 8
(d)  The effectiveness of the measure taken in 1986 to make public the
financial data of enterprises is being assessed. Further proposals are
being prepared primarily to significantly expand the scope of financial
data to be made public, to be introduced in 1988. Practical steps will
be taken to ensure access to these financial data to all partiea
concerned, including private individuals.
(e) A program to create an information system on the creditworthiness of
enterprises, available to all potential creditors (banks and
enterprises), will be prepared by mid-1987. Implementation will begin
thereafter according to a schedule specified in the program.
3. International Trade
(a) On the basis of a review in 1987 of the experience obtained in the
export promotion program, further measures will be taken to ensure more
consistent use of efficiency criteria and to simplify and accelerate the
evaluation of applications.
(b) Wider participation of enterprises in the export promotion program is
being encouraged through dissemination of information on the preferences
provided under the program and the conditions for application.
(c) The amount of credit funds and equity allocations available under the
export promotion program has been increased in 1987.
Cd) In 1987, the export promotion instruments will be assessed, including
preferences available under the Export Promotion Program. A review will
be undertaken to look into the relationship of tax reform and
international trade with particular regard to the exchange rate as a
central element of regulating convertible currency trades and to
preferences available under the Export Promotion Program.
(e) The study on selected convertible currency export markets is being
carried out as scheduled and will be completed in the second half of
1987. The conclusions will be published to facilitate enterprises
making the necessary modifications in their corporate marketing
strategies, and will be taken into account in the formulation of further
measures relating to exports.
(f) A program of technical assistance for enterprises in foreign trading
practices and skills will be developed and launched in 1987 to encourage
wider participation of enterprises in foreign trade.
(g) Based on an assessment of the functions of existing multi-function
trading houses, the use of available incentives for the establishment of
additional trading houses is being encouraged.
(h)  The impo-t regime continues to be maintained free of quantitative
restrictions in accordance with the GATT rules. Reliance is
increasingly placed on overall macroeconomic policy and flexible use of
market-based instruments, such as the exchange rate, for balance of
payments management.



- 64 -              ANNE 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 8
Mi)  The nominal average of tariff rates has been further reduced to reach
the level agreed within the GATT (16.1% for 1987). A study on effective
rates of protection will be completed by the first half of 1988; in this
connection, possibilities for further retionalising the tariff structure
will be examined.
(j) Greater participation of enterprises in thk import competition program
is being encouraged, thereby widening the scope of the program.
Measures will be taken to improve the technical and financial conditions
of bidding. The possible need for further adjustments to increase the
program's effectiveness will be assessed in 1987, and actions taken
accordingly.
4. Pricing of Industrial Coumodities
(a) The export pricing rule has been abolished.
(b) Following devaluation of the forint, measures have been taken to
increase effectiveness of the devaluation by strengthening the relative
profitability of convertible currency exports relative to sales to other
markets.
(c) Modifications in pricing are being prepared to accompany the
introduction of the VAT and personal income tax.
(d) A program is being developed to transform the main function and capacity
of concerned government agencies away from price regulation towards
regulation of imperfect markets, based on the Law of Unfair Economic
Practices.  Implementation of the program will comence in 1988.
5.  Taxation
(a) The remaining tax exemptions in the textile subsector have been
abolished as of January 1, 1987.
(b) As of January 1, 1987, the accumulation tax has been reduced in the case
of investments serving environmental protection, electronization, and
employment of the disabled.
(c) The principles and action plan for the introduction of the VAT and
Personal Incomes Tax by January 1988 have been approved by the Council of
Ministers.
(d) Draft legislation on the VAT and Personal Income Tax will be submitted
to Parliament in the second half of 1987, and preparations will be
completed to permit implementation of the tax reform as of January, 1988.
(e) The financial and institutional infrastructure required for introducing
the new tax system is being elaborated, to make possible its
implementation as of January 1988.
(f) Preparations are underway for modification of the entire income
regulation system, including the decrease or elimination of the
accumulation tax, in line with introduction of the tax reform. These
preparations include, among others, an assessment of the financial
environment for different forms of enterprises and the development of
proposals to create greater uniformity in this environment.



-65 -               ANNE 3-1
Attacbmnat 2
Page 5 of 8
6.   Wage Regulation and Labor Mobility
(a) The share of enterprises covered by the wage scale regulation scheme
(Category 1) has been increased. The number of enterprises in the
competitive sector permitted to remain under centrally administered wage
regulation (Category 3) has further decreased. The option of strict
central regulation of earnings increases (Category 4) has been
eliminated. Moiifications have been made in the earnings regulations
and in the tax rates to st4engthen the relation between earnings and
performance, and to promote the release of inefficient labor.
(b) Preparations are underway in 1987 for moditication of,the entire system
of regulating labor edrnings in line -aith introduction of the tax
reform. Issues being studied include, among others, the possibility of
removing the existing supplementary tax on increases in the enterprise
average wage, and the necessity of maintaining other supplementary taxes.
(c) The program of State assistance to workers transferred in the process of
restructuring and liquidation of enterprises is being continued and
expanded. Experience will be evaluated in 1987 and further measures
developed if necessary to promote labor mobility.
(d) The ongoing study of approaches to further develop the program of worker
retraining will be completed in 1987, and recommendations implemnted
accordingly. The existing financial incentives to enterprises to engage
in retraining (budget support and profit tax rebate) will be evaluated
as to their effectiveness. An appropriate level and source of funding
for the worker retraining program will be established, based on the
current study.
7.  Capital Markot
(a) Additional measures to strengthen the primary and secondary bond markets
are being prepared, taking account of the introduction of the new tax
system; these preparations include, inter alia, an assessment of the
following:
(i) a proposal to integrate the household and enterprise bond
markets in conjunction with introduction of the personal income tax;
(i) the regulatory framework for bonds, taking into account
taxation and legal regulations concerning association;
(iii) establishment of an information system for the exchange of
bond price information;
(iv) requirements for uniform disclosure of financial information
by enterprises intending to issue bonds, as a basis for the
development of a bond rating system.
The above assessment and identification of a program for further action will
be finalized in mid-1987.



-66 -               ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 6 of 8
(b) The regulatory framework of equities and other securities will be
developed in the context ofithe law on association.  Recofmendations
will be elaborated in 1987 for the promotion of the secondary securities
market, regulation of securities trade, staffing and technical
facilities, and development of an information exchang8e. Implementation
of measures initiated thereafter.
(c) Other financial instruments (e.g. bridging equity instruments and other
securities and bonds) are being developed and introduced.
(d) A study has been initiated to examine ways of strengthening the
accounting and auditing system with a view to making enterprise
performance more transparent; supplying managers, creditors, and
potential investors with usable information; introducing a unified
capital account; and facilitating introduction of the tax reform. The
study will develop proposals for training and institutional
requirements. Preparations for implementation of these proposals in
1988 will begin before the end of 1987.
8.   Banking System
(a) On January 1, 1987, the central banking and commercial banking functions
of NBH were separated, and the new commercial banks started operation.
By the same date, the commercial banking and development banking
functions of the State Development Bank were separated, with the latter
taken over by a new State Development Institute.
(b) A joint venture bank with IFC participation was established on
January 1, 1987.
(c) As of July 1, 1987, enterprises will be granted free choice in banking
partners.
(d) the functioning of the new banking system will be evaluated in tho
second half of 1987, and measures of adjustment developed and
implemented accordingly. The following issues, inter alia, will be
assessed:
(i) integration of the household and enterprise banking systems in
conjunction with introduction of the personal income tax.
(ii) permission to enterprises to hold current accounts in more
than one bank;
(iii) the impact of regulations regarding the taxation of banks,
and provisions for reserves, on the banks' incentives for
profitability and risk-taking. The regulation of banking authority
and insurance authority, and the regulation of the reserve rate,
interest rates, discounting and refinancing will be evaluated at
the same time to determine their effectiveness and the need for any
modifications.,
(iv) an action plan for the development of an interbank and money
market.



-67 -               ANEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 7 of 8
(e) The establishment of banks with foreign participation continues to be
encouraged.
(f) A proposal will be elaborated in 1987 for (i) development of
college-level training in banking, and (ii) possibilities of promotion
of a business school-type of post-graduate training, initially for
securities market and banking experts.
9. Entergrise Management System
(a) A decision to transfer another group of enterprises from State
management to the autonomous management system will be made in 1987,
with the transfer to start in 1987 and to be completed by 1990.
(b) An ongoing study of the effectiveness of the new enterprise management
system, including analysis of the needs for external expert advisors to
enterprise management bodies, will be completed in 1987. Proposals
issuing from the study will be implemented beginning in 1988.
(c) Programs to support and enhance management development and training
continue to be implemented.
(d) An assessment of the needs for training and other measures to upgrade
the quality of management consulting services is underway, and
recommmendations will be implemented accordingly.
(e) Arrangements are being elaborated to strengthen the long-term interest
of enterprise managers and employees in corporate profit and property.
Conditional to approval by the Council of Ministers, instruments for
this purpose will be introduced in 1987 on an experimental basis in a
sample of enterprises.
(f) A review of the statistical reporting requirements of enterprises to
government agencies is underway. Proposals will be developed and
implemented to reduce these requirements, in line with the modifications
to be made in accounting, pricing, and other regulations under the tax
reform.
10. Direct Foreign Capital ParticipsAtion
(a) A new organization has been set up as of January 1, 1987 under the
lungarian Chamber of Commerce to perform consulting and other services
for the promotion of direct foreign investment.
(b) Additional promotional efforts of the government have been identified
for the establishment of joint ventures in priority areas.
(c) The study to evaluate the existing framework of measures to promote
direct foreign investment is underway. Modifications in the framework
will be introduced if needed in the second half of 1987.
(d) The number of countries with whom Hungary has signed investor protection
agreements is increasing (e.g. with U.K. and Sweden).



-68 -              ANNEX 3-1
Attachment 2
Page 8 of 9
(e) Hungary has become a signatory of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee
Agency agreement.
(f) A promotional campaign abroad to attract direct foreign investment will
be launched in 1987.
11. Technological Development
(a) Measures are being developed to ensure the appropriate assessment of
intellectual property (e.g., patents, copyrights, licenses) and its
increased recognition as a capital asset.
(b) The compulsory formation of an enterprise technical development fund has
been terminated, except for some research-intensive subsectors (e.g.,
pharmaceuticals). The measures to increase market orientation in the
use of the central technical development fund continue to be implemented.
(c) The program in selected priority areas of technology development
infrastructure continues to be implemented.
(d) The activities of the innovation financing institutions aimed at
technological improvement will be evaluated in 1987, and additional
measures to strengthen innovation financing will be elaborated if
necessary.
(e) The effectiveness of measures for promoting technology transfer continue
to be assessed, with particular regard to promoting the expansion of
engineering and consulting firms.



- 69 -                 ~~~~~ANNEX 3-2
- 69 -                      Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Background, Constraints and Strategy for Selected Subsectors
A. JRubber Processing Subsector
1.        The Hungarian rubber industry is comprised of 60-80 enterprises.
Its structure is one of high concentration, with 68X of total production
value accounted for by one leading firm, Taurus (Annex 4-3). Although the
share of other small processors in total production has been increasing
they are still small in size. Only ten enterprises have sales of more than
Pt 100 million (about US$2.0 million) or have rubber production as a
dominating activity  (production value above  25%).    This  structure  is
different from that in the West, where the vast majority of enterprises are
specialized in rubber proccssing.   Further, most Hungarian firms are too
small to reach a minimum scale above which the benefits of increased scale
level off. Further, product groups in the Hungarian rubber industry tend
to be dominated by one firm and there is limited domestic competition in
each product group.  Also, a Hungarian enterprise tends to focus on much
fewer product groups (one to three) than comparable Western firms (over
five product groups). Total employment in the subsector is around 15,000
persons.
2.          The Hungarian rubber processing industry produces all types of
rubber products used domestically except passenger tires. The products can
be divided into two major product groups: (i) "large company" products for
which the domestic demand is just sufficient to support one producer at an
economic level or products for which the domestic demand needs to be
supplemented with large-scale exports to reach the minimum economic scale.
These products include truck and agricultural tires, air springs, rotary
hoses, conveyor belting and camping products; and (ii) "small-company"
products which are principally covered by technical rubber goods, for which
the domestic demand is large enough to support several producers.   Such
products include molded goods, extruded profiles, sealing elements and
rubber coverings. The Hungarian rubber products are consumed, as in other
Western countries, in industries such as transport (tires, air springs,
belts), manufacturing (hoses, sealings, springs, conveyor belts), building
and construction (flooring, foils, profile bands, hoses, etc.) and consumer
goods (camping articles, adhesives, mats, etc.).
3.        The overall supply and demand balance for the subsector is shown
in the table below. Production value increased at a modest rate of 2% per
year  between  1981  and  1985  (1985  terms).    During  this  period,  the
production growth for large company products was 3.4% as compared to only
0.5% for small company products.  Of total subsector production amounting
to Ft 13.9 billion (about US$280 million) in 1985, the following product
groups contributed for a major share: technical rubber goods, 39%; tires,
26%; hoses, 8%; belting products, 7%; and air springs, 3%. Hoses, belting
products and air springs took an increasing share in overall output during
1981-85o   While total tire production remained stable,  the decline of



- 70 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 2
traditional types (cross-ply) was compensated by the rapidly increasing
share of radial tires (both truck and farm).
Table 1
Huypy - Suply/Demand Balance for Rbber Sibsector
(Ft million in 1985 prices)
Arxual        Projected
Groth          Groth
1981   1982    1983   1984    1985  1981-85   1990  1985-90
() 
Production           12,700  12,380  13,400  13,580  13,873    2.0   15s368    2.0
Large Product       7,434   7,148   7,617   8,022   8,489    3.4    9,708    2.8
SnPi  Product       5,264   5,232   5,783   5,384   5,384    0.5   5,660    1.0
iM253!t              4$,20   4,093   3,434   3,336   3.398   (5.8)   3,839    2.5
O:ME                2,870   2,842  2,761   2,727   2,789   (1.0)   3,339    3.7
Noin{SDEA           1,150   1,251    673    607    609  (15.0)    500   (5.2)
Bq*mrts               3,681   3,494   4,221   4,468   41,604    5.8    5,884   5.0
OMEk                1,850   1,640   2,044   2,069   2,271    5.2   2,442    1.6
Nbon-OAEk           1,831   1,854   2,177   2,399   2,333    6.2    3,442   8.1
Domestic Conumption   =3,039  12,979  12,613  12,448  12,667   (0,7)  13,323    1.0
Large Product       6,689   6,66   5,878   6,012  6,232   (1.8)   6,726   1.5
Snll Product        69,350   6,373   6,735   6,436   6,435    0.3   6,597   0.5
4.          During 1981-85, exports have shown a good performance with an
annual increase of 5.8% (constant prices); the increase to non-CMEA and
CMEA markets was at 6.2% and 5.2%, respectively.   In 1985, total exports
amounted to Ft 4.6 billion (US$92 million). Exports accounted for 33% of
output and were split evenly between the CMEA and non-CMEA markets. A high
proportion of these exports in both markets are large company products such
as tires, hoses, camping goods (90% of CMEA and 93% of non-CMEA exports).
The main convertible currency markets are the USA, Western Europe and
selected countries with tender markets.   The small company products show
only a low level of exports reflecting a strong domestic orientation of the
small enterprises.
5.        Domestic ionsumption of rubber products showed a decreasing trend
(0.7%) during 1981-85 which was composed of a decrease in large company
products (1.8% per year) and a small growth in small company products (0.3%
per year). The local consumption was Ft 12.7 billion (US$254 million) in
1985, which was supplied 73% from the domestic production and the remaining
23% imported primarily from CMEA countries. Imports from non-CMEA markets
were negligible (0.5%).  The imports from CMEA were mainly for passenger
tires which are not produced in Hungary.   Imports of small company goods,
which represented only 10% of domestic consumption in 1985, have been
increasingly substituted by domestic production over the past four years



-71 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 3
with the main substitution occurring in non-CMEA imports. This resulted in
a substantial decline of imports from non-CMEA markets (15X per year) and
only a modest decline of 1X from CMEA markets during 1981-85.
6.         Marketing of importe4 rubber raw materials and processed rubber
goods as well as domestic sales and export of Hungarian rubber goods is
carried out through four different channels:   direct sales, domestic and
foreign trading companies of Taurus and other foreign trading companies.
On the domestic market, sale of domestically produced rubber goods is
mainly based on direct contact with clients carried out by sales personnel
of the enterprises.   A small portion is carried out through the Domestic
Trading Company of Tatrus (DTC-T) which has started to build up a network
of retail 6utlets for Taurus and small companies' products.  DTC-T also
markets, as a wholesaler, all rubber goods from CMEA and non-CHMA markets
which are imported through the Foreign Trading company of Taurus (FTC-T).
Export marketing is dominated by FTC-T, which markets 95% of the rubber
products  to CMEA and non-CMEA markets.   The remaining 5% is exported
through other foreign trading companies. Abroad, FTC-T has established its
own subsidiaries and a network of agents.
7,        Pricing of rubber products on the domestic market is based on the
general pricing system applicable to the industrial sector.   It appears
that prices of rubber goods made and sold in Hungary are lower than those
in  the  industrialized Western nations.    On CMEA markets, prices  are
negotiated for a basket of goods (rubber as well as other goods) exchanged
between the CMEA countries. It is difficult, therefore, to compare prices
of individual products.   It appears that, on average, prices for CMEA
exports are equal to or higher than the domestic prices.  On the non-CMEA
markets, prices vary widely depending upon the competitive situation of the
product in a country or worldwide. For some products like air springs and
special hoses prices are up to 10% higher than domestic prices but for
other products (tires, hydraulic hoses, camping goods) export prices are up
to 25% lower than domestic prices.  The nominal import tariffs on rubber
raw materials and finished goods range from 2.5% to 20%.
8.          The technologies employed in the Hungarian rubber processing
subsector can be divided into two categories similar to the main product
groups. Large company products need large resources in capital, manpower,
and technology to be manufactured economically and need appropriate
research and  development  to  remain  competitive.    Hungary has  either
traditionally licensed technology (truck and farm tires) or has developed
own technology (air springs, high pressure hoses, camping goods) and it
;shall continue to follow this dual strategy. Problems are associated with
the  equipment  for  product , development  and  testing,  raw  material
preparation,  process  technology  and  quality  control.    The  installed
equipment/technology needs upgrading and renewal to form a competitive base
for future exports and upgrading of domestic supply.  For small company
products, the equipment status is similar.  Many small-5and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs) have small mixers, a large proportion of SMEs use
compression molding machines (78% of total molding machines) instead of
modern and more productive injection molders.  Most of the equipmewt is



-72 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 4
over ten years old and originates from CMEA countries. This has led to low
capacity utilization (about 70%), low labor productivity, high scrap rates
and low quality; all of which are important for the competitiveness of the
Hungarian SMEs. &
9.          The competitiveness of the rubber processing industry depends
on  the  cost  of  the key  factor  inputs  and  the efficiency  of  their
utilization, as well as the relative quality levels.  Hungary has a very
favorable cost position in relation to competitors in any of the major
European markets. Hungary sources most of its synthetic rubber and all its
carbon black from the CMEA.  In spite of the adjustment in low prices of
these products within the CMEA to reflect world-market levels, including
any discount for inconsistent quality and unreliable deliveries, Hungary
enjoys a cost advantage of up to 14% on total rubber material cost relative
to a Western rubber processing company. The price advantage is offset to
some extent by higher stockholding costs, higher scrap rates, and
overspecification of products. Currently, the net material cost advantage
is estimated to be up to 5% on total material cost.  Further, despite a
large disadvantage in labor productivity, Hungary enjoys a considerable
labor cost advantage as unit labor costs are nearly one third that of the
Western competitors.   On energy, Hungarian rubber manufacturers had an
important energy cost advantage vis-a-vis Western industrialized countries
over the past few years through the operation of the Bucharest pricing
system. The cost advantage is estimated to have been equivalent to 5% of
sales. With the recent decline in oil price., however, the advantage has
reversed and the rubber processing industry is now facing a disadvantage of
about 2% of sales. Further, the subsector's specific energy consumption is
50-100% higher than its international competitors and is focussing its
efforts to improve energy consumption.  An overall estimate for the above
three key cost factors shows that the Hungarian rubber processing subsector
enjoys an overall cost advantage of up to 15%, against Western competitors,
with a potential for further increasing the advantage.   On the export
market, other aspects such as transport costs, import tariffs, and other
factors (knowledge of market, relative product quality, brand image,
marketing skills) reduce the cost advantage, but the subsector clearly has
the potential  to be competitive.   The  relative profitability of  the
subsector varies widely depend*ng upon the product group and market, but on
average the subsector shows the following profitability (return on sales):
domestic market, 5% to 10%; CMEA market, 15%; and non-CMEA market, -10% to
10%.                                                       4
10.          Tn addition to the industry-wide constraints with regard to
enterprise management behavior and motivation, the main constraints
affecting the subsector are: (i) Structure of the subsector: In contrast
to the typically fragmented, specialized and competitive nature of the
industry in the Western countries, the rubber processing activities in
Hungary are only a minor part of an enterprise's overall activities
(excluding Taurus); for only 25% of the rubber enterprises involved in the
subsector is rubber processing the dominant activity. The size of rubber
processing activities is also very small in most cases, limiting efficiency
and profitability.  These factors have adversely affected the development



-73 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 5
of the SMEs and led to limited competition.   (ii) Access to quality raw
materials with reliable deliveries: SMEs suffer from delivery and quality
problems of CMEA inputs, which are imported by Taurus.   They also lack
direct contacts with suppliers of other materials, which are mostly
imported  by the foreign tradJing company,  Vegytek.   This organization
provides insufficient suppliers' services which are common to Western
companies (such as information on new products and applications, blend
recipes and other technical and marketing information). The poor services
lead  to  higher  inventory  holding  of  raw  materials,  and  affect  the
productivity ,and the cost and quality competitiveness of the finished
products.   (iii) Marketing orientation:   The limited internal and import
competition has resulted in little attention being given to the adoption of
competitive product and market strategies for domestic and export markets.
Market orientation has also been constrained by the limited dissemination
of information on new products, technologies, and markets outside Hungary,
especially for small enterprises. Also limited access to information from
the suppliers and importers of raw materials has affected the ability of
SMEs to new innovations.   (iv)  iging technologZy and  equipment:    The
competitiveness of the subsector has been constrained by its aging
technology and equipment. Lack of access to updated equipment in view of
restrictions on foreign exchange availability has severely hampered
subsector enterprises in improving labor productivity, material usage,
product quality and equipment, utilization.   There is an urgent need for
updating and replacement to reverse the trend of lagging competitiveness.
(v) Infrastruetural support, training and management systems: The testing
and control facilities for raw materials and finished goods of subsector
enterprises are insufficient.   Also the supply of high-quality molds,
particularly those for injection molding, is a major impediment to
increasing  competitiveness.       Further  lack  of  qualified  personnel
(engineers, technicians and skilled workers) trained in rubber technology
has restricted the ability of SMEs to expand product ranges or develop new
applications. Also, sources of assistance in Hungary to provide technical
and technological contacts are limited.  Finally, improvements are needed
in  enterprise  management  systems  in  all  functional  areas  (strategic
planning, marketing, technical, financial, etc.) in order to develop sound
strategies for the enterprise, and related management information systems
need strengthening.
11.       The strategy for the subsector developed jointly by the Hungarian
authorities, an international consulting company (Boston Consulting Group
of UK), and the World Bank addresses the above constraints. The strategy
contains the following elements:  (i) restructuring of current operations
of enterprises in order to bring these to international competitiveness
through development of competitive products and phasing out of uneconomical
products; cost reduction through improvements in material usage, energy
consumption and labor productivity with modern equipment; and improved
management organization and systems; (ii) support the enterprises with
dominating rubber activities to become specialized in a greater diversity
of product groups to attain larger benefits of economies of scale;
(iii) improve and upgrade infrastructural support through strengthening of
quality control and testing facilities, establishing a technical and



- 74 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 6
marketing iuformation center, upgrading of mold-making facilities, and
reinforcing export promotion measures; (iv) encourage increased indirect
and direct convertible currency exports; and (v) provide technical
assistance to SMEs to create internal capabilities to develop and
continuously adjust their strategies for products, markets, technology and
management  systems.    The  total  estimated  investment  needs  for  the
restructuring of the subsector is given below:
Table 2
Restructuring Needs of Rubber Processing Subsector, 1986-90
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total
:: 7h(Ft million)   -      =(US$ millionT
Technological Infrastructure
Quality Control                15       20      35      0.3    0.5    0.8
Information Center              5       15      20      0.1    0.3    0.4
Export Promotion               15       15       30     0.3    0.3    0.6
Subtotal                    35       50      85      0.7    1.1    1.8
Contingencies                   9        7      16      0.2    0.2    0.4
Subtotal                    44       57      101     0.9    1.3    2.2
Enterprise Restructuring
Large Company Products      2,025   1,428   3,453    45.0   31.7   76.7
Small Company Products        351      578     929      7.8   12.9   20.7
Subtotal                 2,376   29006   4,382    52.8   44.6   97.4
Total                    2,420   2,063   4,483    53.7   45.9   99.6
m.    -   _               _ -
12.           The restructuring of the subsector includes two important
factors: (i) restructuring of existing assets along the lines indicated
above; and (ii) expansion of capacity in order to accommodate the shift in
product-mix due to restructuring of existing operations, improve economies
of scale and expand production of competitive products to augment exports
to convertible currency markets. Hungary appears to have a significantly
higher rubber consumption relative both to the average trend and to
countries with similar income levels. Therefore, the future demand in the
domestic market is not expected to grow at more than 1% over the next five
years.   Imports have been increasingly substituted by domestic production
and it would become harder to justify economically further substitution of
imports by local production. Further, Hungary does not intend to increase
its CMEA exports. The restructuring of the subsector would provide large
potential to further increase exports of both large company and small
company  products  to  convertible  currency  markets.    It  is  expected,
therefore, that the exports to non-CMEA markets would increase at about 8%
per year in constant prices during 1986-90. The structure of the subsector
would lead to specialization of firms, and increase in production output.
Finally, it is expected that the employment would reduce by about 15% by
1990.



-75 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 7
B. Agricultural Hachinery Subsector
13.       The agricultural machinery production in Hungary goes back to the
end of the 19th century, but modern industry actually developed over the
last 20 lyears, in parallel with the development of it# modern intensive
agriculttre to reach an average production value of some US$230 million per
year (1985 prices) during the 1980-85 period.   Presently, agricultural
machinery  manufacturing  in Hungary  is  carried  out  by  some  75  state
enterprises, industrial cooperatives, cooperative farms  -and state farms,
but only a limited number of these dominate the market.  The four largest
enterprises each had sales of US$20-70 million in 1985 and accounted for
about two thirds of all sales. The industry is already concentrated as 852
of total production is achieved by seven enterprises, most of them
previously part of the former Mezogep Trust which was dismantled in 1985.
The sector presently employs around 23,500 persons.
14.       Given the small size of the local market and the CMEA cooperation
agreements which specialize each CHEA country .n certain production,
products such as small- and medium-sized tractors and combine harvesters
are absent in the Hungarian product-mix.   The Hungarian product-mix is
mainly centered on large tractors, harvesting attachments and crop
production equipments. The products manufactured and used in Hungary are
usually more adapted to the local and CMEA markets than to non-CMEA markets
due to the differences in farm size (Western Europe), ways of cultivating,
regulations, quality and performance of equipment.   The product-mix is
characterized by a proliferation of designs and sizes in each segment.
Generally, larger enterprises have started to concentrate within the
agricultural machinery business in a single segment or a limited number of
segments, but still tend to have too many products, designs and sizes in
each segment.   These unnecessary alternate designs add to engineering,
manufacturing, and marketing costse
Table 3
Product-Mix Percent Breakdown for 1985
(In value of shipments)
Domestic       Domestic
Product                           Production    Consumption
Tractors                                8              34
Harvesting Equipment                   35              37
Tillage Equipment                      11               9
Planting Equipment                      8               7
Crop Protection Equipment              15               5
Other Equipment                        23               8
Total                            100             100
Total in US$ million             220            280



- 76                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 8
15,        Overall agricultural machinery production in Hungary reached a
production value of about US$220 million in 198$, but while increased by
32X between 1980 and 1983 (peak year), it has declinJd by 14% between
1983-85 along with world market trends.  Due to Increasing sales to the
CHEA market, however, total production has grown by about 2,9% per year
over tlh 1980-1985 period.
Table 4
Hungarian Agricultural Machinery Production by Sales Area
(US$ million constant 1985 prices)
% Annual
Growth Rate
Sales Area       1980   1983   1985   1990        1980-85  1985-90
Domestic           94    130      92    150        (0.4)      10.3
CHEA               so    100    111    132          6.8        3.5
Non-CMEA           18     27      18     30         -         10.8
Total        192    257    221    312          2.9       7.1
-                                  -         -_ _ _
16.       The domestic market is traditionally the largest market for the
Hungarian agricultural machinery producers.  For the period 1980-85, 49X of
agricultural machinery production went to the domestic market, 42X to CMEA
markets,  and 91 to non-*MEA markets.   The domestic market is small,
however, at US$280 million on average for the 1980-85 period; it represents
only 121 of the French market which is the largest market in Western
Europe, and about 41 of the US market which is the largest non-CMEA
market. As in France and in the US, the Hungarian agricultural machinery
market is mature; coonercial farming is completely mechanized, and
mashinery sales per capita are similar in Hungary and the USA, in which
countries large farms prevail, However, Hungary differs significantly from
the USA and France concerning the importance of trade of agricultural
machinery in relation to domestic production and consumption. Over half of
Rungary's production is exported and over half of Hungary domestic
consumption  is  from  imports.    Domestic  consumption  of  agricultural
machinery hao generally paralleled and slightly exceeded domestic
production.   During 1980-85, 401 of the Hungarian market  was met by
domestic production, 341 by CQuA imports and 261 by non-CMEA imports. The
domestic market, although irregular, has grown over the 1980-85 period, in
contrast with the US market which has been decreasing and the European
market which has remained constant.   It has been increasingly open to
market forces, Thb Hungarian maTket is projected to continue to grow at a
low ratee
17.        Exports have shown a good performance in a worldwide depressed
market, Exports to CuBA have increased steadily (401 between 1980-85), and
the trade balance with C04A countries is slightly favorable.   The main
products exported to C0EA countries are crop protection equipment to USSR



-77-                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 9
and harvesting equipment to Czechoslovakia, while Hungary imports mainly
tractors from the USSR, and combines and forage harvesters from GDR.
Exports to non-CMEA markets were mainly accounted for by attachments and
components. Hungary has consistently had a negative trade balance witii the
non-CMEA1 countries which averaged US$60 million per year during 1980-85 (in
constant  1985 prices).   The main non-CMEA import has been harvester
combines from FRG.
l8.         Manufacturing facilities are characterized by a dispersion of
sites, and on each site by small old workshops.  Most major enterprises
currently manufacture in two to ten different towns,   At each of these
locations, in most cases a past agricultural machine repair station
combines multiple separate buildings to make a factory. This multitude of
buildings has resulted in poor plant layout and material handling. Tooling
quality and age varies very much from one plant to another, some being very
old, and the use of NC and CNC machines is very limited. Redundant labor
also hampers productivity improvements.   Althougn hourly labor costs are
distinctly lower than those in Western countries, employment in the
manufacture  of  agricultural  machinery  is  excessive.    In  the  larger
enterprises, annual sales reach only US$15-19,000 per total employee (1985
prices),   as  compared  to  US$40-60,000  for  Western  manufacturers.
Productivity is even lower for the other smaller agricultural machinery
producers.   Labor turnover averages 15-20% annually and thus offers an
opportunity for employee reduction through attrition. However, management
has been reluctant to reduce employment in response to either lower
prcduction requirements or adoption of labor-saving technology.
19,       Component manufacture is as proliferated as alternate designs and
excess businesses. Most manufacturers are very reluctant to start either
buying or selling components, and continue their excessive vertical
integration as they think they can not depend on other Hungarian companies
for product quality, timeliness of deV very, and reasonable prices. "Make
or .uy" decisions are an essential part of becoming competitive in world
markets, international manufacturers moving more and more toward an
assembly philosophy; however, this approach is almost nonexistent in
Hungarian agricultural machinery enterprises.   The lack of an adequate
standards program by industry or the Government is also a deterrent to a
thriving component industry. This is further compounded by using different
designs for the domestic, CWMEA, and non-CMEA markets.
20.       General pricing rules for industrial products do not apply to the
agricultural machinery industry.   The Ministry of Agriculture and the
National Materials and Prices Board must approve prices for most of all
agricultural machines sold on the domestic market and prices of CMEA
exports are negotiated centrally dn the rollivg average price over the last
five years.   However, the Government has agreed  to  liberalizing the
domest'.c pricing and to abolishing price control by January 1, 1988, along
with the introduction of the reform in the tax systems (para 3.27).
21.          A detailed study of the subsector has shown that current
marketing  practices  appear  to  be  reasonable  for  CMEA markets, need
upgrading for the domestic market, and are inadequate for West European



- 78 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 10
markets.   Contracts with CMEA clients, negotiated jointly with a foreign
trade company, Komplex, are usually long-term and within the framework of
general CMEA agreements.   On the domestic market, enterprises marketing
departments  have  served  primarily  as  "order  takers"   from  local
distrigutors.   With the shift in economic policies to a greater market
orientJtion (including increased import competition), marketing practices
must be improved to increase or even maintain current sales levels. Main
non-CMEA sales are in Western Europe of which a large share is in the form
of subcontracts.  With the exception of a corn harvesting attachment for
combines, there have been very few sales in Western Europe of complete
attachments or machines other than to or through the original manufacturer
who designed and licensed the product.  Most of the sales were effected
through Komplex. There is, therefore, limited understanding or preparation
by the enterprises for this important but extremely competitive market. In
addition to marketing, product quality and after-sales service are very
important to penetrate Western markets, which are only replacement markets
because of the high mechanization level already achieved in these markets
after sales service is, in most cases, very limited, even on domestic
market and would need improvements.
22.        In the last decade, research, development, and testing has been
centralized at MEFI, the Development 'nstitute of Agricultural Machinery,
and at MEM-MI, the National Institute of Agricultural Engl,%eering.   Both
are planned to continue but now depend more on direct contracts with
subsector enterprises and less on support by the Ministries of Industry and
Agriculture.     With  limited  capability  for  original  research  and
development, the larger enterprises depend on designs obtained through
licenses from US and European cooperators for more sophisticated products.
For the entire agricultural machinery subsector, almos't one third of its
production in the past decade has depended on external licensing.   One
favorable result was that in 1983, one third of all designs were three
years old or less. In addition to updating technology, licensing has also
contributed to some iiternational approaches to production organization and
quality  control.    However,  it  has  delayed  the  learning  process  to
independently design competitive products.
23.       The competitive position of the subsector varies from one product
group to another, the more competitive being attachments and components.
Studies  carried  out  by  international  consultants  have  shown  that
competidveness in this subsector is not only based on cost considerations,
but that other aspects such as design, quality, delivery time, and
after-sales service are key elements in this very competitive market.  As
far as costs are concerned, Hungary has a key competitive advantage for
small to medium size production.    Its skilled and low-cost manpower
accounts for a large part of the cost of products involved in such small to
medium production series. Western manufacturers have recognized this and
have subcontracted components and certain small series products to
Hungarian p. %ducers. However, concerning the other aspects that determine
competitiveness, Hungarian agricultural machinery producers are relatively
weak.    Improvement  of  competitiveness  of  the  Hungarian  agricultural
machinery subsector is mainly constrained by the small size of the domestic



- 79 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 11
market, the special characteristics of Hungarian agriculture, the heritage
of central planning and administration of Hungarian agriculture and of the
previous Mezogep Trust, the heritage of insulation from market forces, and
the heritage of old factories.
24.         The restructuring strategy developed jointly by the Hungarian
authorities, the Hungarian manufacturers, an international consulting firm
and the Bank addresses the above constraints with the objective to improve
the competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural machinery subsector both
on the domestic and Western export markets.   Progress  to improve the
subsector product-mix and to focus each segment will be accelerated. The
product strategy will aim at reducing the number of models in the product
families for which Hungary could be competitive.   The strategy will also
focus on machinery for crops which have large cultivated areas in Hungary
such as corn snd sunflower, as well as on components for which Hungary has
already an established a competitive advantage.
25.         A major focus of the strategy involves reduction of costs to
improve competitiveness. This will require multiple strategies throughout
the enterprises.   The starting point will be to focus the product-mix
strategy on reducing the proliferation of business activities, services,
product  types,  product  sizes,   and  internal  component   and  parts
manufacture. This will require the elimination of unprofitable businesees
and   the   increase   of   production   volumes   to   economic   levels.
Material-handling labo; and other costs will be reduced by improving plant
layout, constructing new buildings and remodeling existing ones, and
closing some factories. Further both hourly and salaried employees should
be reduced ih response to changes in technology, productivity and
production levels.
26.         Improvrd management through training and better decision tools
will be the key to the success of restructuring.   A special focus on
management information systems to provide managers with the information
required to make good short- and long-term decisionss, in particular to
quantify the added costs of low-volume production and excessive vertical
integration will require assistance from foreign consultants.
27.         Marketing, product quality and customer service will require
special attention. Special training, including language courses, will have
to be implemented for marketing staff.   In order  to improve product
quality, measures have to be taken to upgrade design and to install
necessary equipment to improve surface finish and painting for exports.
Delivery time is to be improved by better management systems and machine
tools which permit  faster  changeover  times.    Finally,  improvement  of
after-sales  service  to  match  Western  tandards  will  require  special
training and technical assistance.
28.            The estimated investment  needs for restructuring  of  the
subsector, which will be supported by the Project, are given below.



ANNEX 3-2
-80-                         Page 12
Table 5
Estimated Investment Needs for Restructuring of
Agricultural Machinery Subsector, 1987-90
Ft million          US$ million
For-                For-
Local   eign  Total  Local  eign  Total
Technological Infzastructure
Marketing & Development Center a/      15      20     35    0.3   0.5    0.8
Standardization a/                      7       2      9    0.2   - cl   0.2
Subtotal                           22     2             0i
Contingencies                           5       3      8    0.1   0.1    0.2
Subtotal                           27     25      52    0.6   0.6    1.2
Enterprise Restructuringk b/         2,277  2,046  4,323   50.6  45.5   96.1
Total                           2,304  2,071  4,375   51.2  46.1   97.3
a/  Combined with food processing subsector (para 39).
b/ Including investment needs for software and hardware measures.
c/ Negligible.
29.           Concerning the imact =f  the restructuring strategy,  the
product-mix is expected to remain generally similar, but with less products
in each segment.   Exports to Western markets would remain constituted
mainly of attachments and components, where Hungary has a comparative
advantage, while exports of complete machines would remain limited as these
require a large domestic market to justify production on world scale.
There should be an increase in the manufacture of components and
fast-wearing replacement parts for both the domestic and export markets.
Total production is projected to reach US$312 million in 1990 (1985
prices), 20% over the previous high of 1983 and 40% above 1985 production
levels (para 15), while production for sales on the domestic market is
projected to reach US$150 million in 1990 (1985 prices), 16% higher than
the previous high year of 1983 and 632 above 1985 levels.   Also,  the
restructuring program will impact the structure of the industry.   The
improved efficiency of the restructured enterprises will likely force some
of the smaller enterprises out of the marketplace, now that the Government
permits them to fail.   Some new enterprises are expected to start the
production of components.  Further, productivity is expected to increase
from higher-volume production due to fewer businesses and products along
with a reduction in number of enterprises and fewer factory locations.
Productivity will also increase from better management, better plant layout
with lees materials handling, better machine tools and a reduction in
surplus employment. Total agricultural machinery employment is projected
to decline by 12% to about 20,600 people in 1990. This sill result in a
productivity increase of 59% between 1985-90 or 9.7% per year.   This
compares quite favorably to the long-term average annual productivity
increase of 3X in the USA.



- 81 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 13
C. Food Processing Machinery Subsector
30.           The Hungarian food processing machinery (PM) subsector is
relatively  small  with  production  including  machinery  parts  1/  of
Ft 2.8 billion (US$55 million) in 1985.  Concerning the structure of the
subsector it is estimated that over 100 enterprises are involved in FPM and
FPM component production of some sorto The subsector is dominated by a few
enterprises, however, with only seven enterprises each with FPM sales
revenues over Ft 100 million (US$2.1 million) in 1984, while the largest
enterprise accounted for 35% of ?PM production, and the five largest
producers for 67% EiAployment has been estimated at about 7,000 persons.
Almost all enterprises are involved in other machine or component
manufacture also, typically as a side activity of agricultural machinery
production and maintenance. Furthermore, PPM producers have a high degree
of in-house manufacture of parts and components for their own production
leading to high levels of vertical integration.   As a result, with few
exceptions, FPM production in Hungary is not a specialized activity. It
typically represents less than 20% of overall enterprise activities, in
contrast with Western FPM companies which mostly are highly specialized.
31.            Despite the relatively small size of the subsector, its
product-mix is very diversified, with production of some 800 types of
machines and components. Complete processing lines can be supplied for the
canning, milling (including fodder mixing), bakery, meat and poultry
industries, and partly for the dairy industry.   For the supply of more
complicated lines, part of the machinery is imported to complement
domestically produced machinery, particularly packaging equipment.
32.        FPM production, Including components, increased by about 7% per
year between 1981 and 1985. While machinery output alone grew by 6% per
year, output  of components  increased by 12X per year.   For specific
processing machinery, dairy processing machinery took an increasing share
in overall output; meat processing/poultry and canning equipment had a
stable share; while milling, bakeries and sugar processing equipment lost
some grour-d. as shown in the following table.
1/   But excluding related machinery such as conveyor system s  pipes, pumps
and fittings.



- 82 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 14
Table 6
Output of Food Processing Machinery and Components. 1981-85 a/
(Ft million in 1985 prices)
I
Annual  Z of Total
Product Line              1981  1982  1983  1984  1985 Growth  1981   1985
meat & Poultry             304   315   306   298   347   3.4   14.5  12.6
Dairy                      317   443   385   399   533  13.9   15.1  19.3
Canning                    470   624   680   653   580   5.4   22.4  21.0
Milling & Bakeries         196   174   186   219   159  (5.1)   9.3   5.8
Sugar                       34    16    18        7    20  (12.4)    1.6   0.7
Other                      136   150   142   157   168   5.4    6.5   6.1
Subtotal            1,457  1,723  1,717  1,733  1,807   5.5   69.4  65.5
Packaging Machines         162   185   198   201   201   5.5    7.7   7.3
Components/Parts           481   539   632   748   752   11.8   22.9  27.2
Total               2,100 2,447  2,547  2,682 2,760   7.1  100.0  100.0
a/   Excluding related maehinery such as conveyor systems, pipes, pumps and
fittings.
Source: Ministry of Industry.
33.          Of total machinery output, a high proportion is destined for
exports to the CMEA market which accounted for 451 of PPM sales during
1981-85, while domestic supply represented 51%, with the remaining 41 for
Western exports.   Most of Hungarian exports are for turnkey projects of
complete processing lines, including related engineering, supervision and
erection services and complementary imported equipment.   Including these
services and imported equipment, total exports amounted to US$65.1 in 1985,
of   which   CNEA   exports   of   US$49.5   million   and   the   remainder
(US$15.6 million)  for  exports; to  convertible  currency  markets.    CMEA
exports are primarily for canning and dairy processing lines which together
represented 851 of CMEA exports in 1985.   Convertible currency exports
(including   services   and   imported   equipment)   fluctuated   between
US$6.1-15.6 million during 1980-85, with highest sales for milling,
canning, poultry and slaughterhouse lines. The main convertible currency
markets were Algeria, Iran, Iraq, China, Syria and Nigeria, while exports
to West European markets represented on average 10-15X of convertible
currency exports during 1981-85.   Such West European exports are mostly
under cooperation or buy-back arrangements with Western firms.
34.            Domestic consumption of FPM in Hungary amounted to about
Ft 13.8 billion (US$276 million) in 1985 prices during the Sixth Plan
period (1981-85) or Ft 2.8 million (US$55 million) on average per year.
The  local  market  showed  an  increasing  machinery  consumption  for
slaughterhouses/meat and poultry processing, dairy, and canning, while
other segments decreased (sugar processing, milling and bakeries).



-83 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 15
Consumption of packaging equipment for the food industry also increased.
During 1981-85, Hungarian FPN producers supplied about 46% of the domestic
FPH needs while convertible  currency imports represented about 36% of
consumption and CMEA imports 18%.   It is estimated that total machine
investment requirements of the food processing industry during the Seventh
Plan (1986-90), including for related machinery (para 30), will be about
Ft 21.0 billion (US$420 million) in 1985 prices, which represents an
increase in real terms of 35% over similar machine purchases during the
Sixth Plan. Important investments are foreseen for machinery requirements
of  packaging  (including  filling  and  sealing),  canning,   bakeries,
slaughterhouses  and  dairy.       Of  total  requirements,  the  Hungarian
authorities estimated that Ft 8.3 billion (US$165 million) or 39% will be
met from local supply, while CMEA imports are expected to meet 21% of
machine requirements, and Western imports 40%.
35.         Marketing of FPM enterprises on the local market is based on
direct contacts with clients carried out by sales personnel of the
enterprises.    For  export  marketing,  the  enterprises  rely  largely  on
Komplex, the foreign trade company historically involved in exports and
imports  of  agricultural  and  food  processing  machinery.    Due  to  the
importance of turnkey contracts on the export markets (para 33), the larger
FPM enterprises have established special engineering offices which are
responsible for the preparation and execution of such contracts. Pricing
of FPM products on the domestic market is based on the general pricing
system applicable to the industrial sector.  On CMEA markets, prices are
based on periodical  inter-governmental  negotiations.    Although  it  is
difficult to obtain prices for comparable FPM products in various markets
due to the diversity of the product-mix, prices on CMEA markets tend to be
somewhat  higher  than  domesticI and Western  export  prices.    For most
machinery in the subsector, import duties range from 20-40%. The Hungarian
authorities have agreed to lower the higher rates to a maximum level of 20%
by January 1, 1989, according to a confirmed schedule of reductions to
stimulate the efficient development of the subsector and to provide an
incentive for restructuring.
36.          Concerning the competitiveness of Hungarian food processing
machinery, considerations of quality, delivery times and brand recognition
are more important in this subsector than cost eonsiderations, particularly
on the more sophisticated Western European and US markets.   A detailed
analysis of selected Hungarian nachines carried out by a Swiss consulting
firm indicated that their current marketing prospects are limited on West
European markets.    The main  drawbacks  of  Hungarian machines  concern
outdated  design  and  construction,  use  of  low  quality  raw  materials
(particularly steel),  inadequate  finish and esthetics,  relatively high
energy consumption and weight, and lack of adequate control facilities
including micro-processor control.  These criteria are less stringent for
markets in developing countries and export possibilities were identified in
a number of these markets, particularly for delivery of complete processing
lines. In the case of cooperation agreements with West European partners,
the basic Hungarian machines are suitable to be incorporated in processing
lines sold by such partners, particularly to clients in developing



- 84 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 16
countries.   Further, Hungarian machinery producers are less competitive
than Western firms in delivery times largely due to inflexible material
supply, which is more critical for delivery of individual machines than for
supply of complete processing lines.   Concerning price competitiveness,
Hungarian machines tend to be lower in price than Western products, but
quality and delivery factors offset the price advantage in most cases.
Also the lack of a reputed Hungarian brand name and after-sale service
restricts market acceptance. On the cost side, Hungarian producers have a
potential comparative advantage over Western producers due to the low cost
of labor which is relatively well trained, particularly if production
facilities can be restructured leading to production rationalization,
improved quality, and reduced delivery times. The labor cost advantage is
particularly well captured in the supply of manpower-intensive turnkey
contracts.
37.           The main constraints which affect the performance of the
subsector can be summarized as follows:   (i) Inadequate structure of the
subsector.   As mentioned earlier,  the manufacturing facilities of the
Hungarian FPM branch are characterized by small to medium-scale cperations
that lack specialization.  Typically, FPM production is carried out as a
side activity of enterprises, which also are constrained by high levels of
vertical integration.,  In addition, the product-mix of the subsector is
too fragmented and varied with some 800 types of basic machines and
components;  (ii) Outdated production facilities and org_nization.   The
technology generally applied is conventional with a large degree of manual
operations, which lacks 'automation and computer applications.  Production
areas which need modernization include: metal cutting, pressing and sheet
working; welding; surface finishing; material handling; and measuring
technology.  Much of the present equipment in use is more than ten years
old and the use of NC and CNC machines  is very  limited.    Further,
production organization is poor due to the relatively large number of
small- to medium-sized plant facilities that are geographically dispursed
and that lack specialization, poor material and work flow, and inadequate
plant layout. Also, the enterprises are chatacterized by a high degree of
overstaffing particularly of indirect labor in the factories and of staff
in the central facilities. The above faccors contribute to low levels of
labor productivity and high production costs of Hungarian PPM producers;
(iii)  Lack of market  orientation.    Historically  the firms have  been
production-oriented due to the lack of autonomy and accountability of
enterprise management and the largely centrally planned nature of
operations with a large emphasis on the CMEA markets for which long-term
production targets are fixed.  As a result, indigenous technological and
product development is lagging and most new developments are introduced
through licensing and know-how agreements with Western firms.   Also,
product design and quality have been affected adversely, while modern
marketing   practices   and   customer   service   are   underdeveloped;
(iv) Inadequate materials and component supply. Due to long order cycles,
material supply is inflexible and delivery times are long (in some cases
over a year).   Stainless steel, which is particularly important for the
subsector, is not available in narrow sizes on the local market and needs
to be imported from Western suppliers which imports have been restricted in
e



-85 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 17
the past due to foreign exchange limitations.   The difficult material
supply situation has also forced FPM producers  to keep high material
inventory  levels  and  contributes  to  long delivery  times  of finished
machinery as compared to Western firms.   Further,  the lack of feeder
industries  has  constrained  the  supply  of  parts,  components  and
subassemblies and led to high levels of vertical integration.
38.        The strategy for the subsector addresses the above constraints
and focusses on improving its competitiveness for the local and convertible
currency export markets through the restructuring of current operations
with emphasis on: (i) specialization and separation of FPM activities from
other enterprise activities through creation of new enterprises, spin-offs
of existing PPM activities into subsidiaries, or creation of profit centers
within enterprises; (ii) narroying of current product-mix to reduce the
number of products with focus on products where the subsector currently has
a  re!arive  strength  on  domestic   and   export  markets   including:
millin/flodder mixing equipment, cheese processing equipment and dairy
tanks, canning preparation equipment, slaughterhouse equipment and bakery
equipment; as well as on the development of packaging equipment and
subsector-related component production, particularly pumps and fittings;
(iii) cost reduction measures through rationalization of production not
only among enterprises, but at enterprise level by specialization of
production  among  factories  along  technologies  and  product  groups;
improvement of work and material flow; introduction of up-to-date equipment
and increasing automation; and gradual reduction of surplus labor;
(vi) improvement of product quality by upgrading of product design and
performance, use raw materials that meet international and hygienic
standards, and improvement of workmanship and finish; (v) improvement of
product and production technology through know-how agreements and license
purchases with Western firms, systematic follow-up of technological
developments  on  Western  markets,  and  improvement  of  domestic  R&D
organization at enterprise level to maximize contacts with operations';
(vi) development of exports to Western markets initially through turnkey
projects for markets in developing countries, and gradual penetration of
Western    European    markets    through    further    development    of
cooperation/subcontracting arrangements with Western firms with relative
improvements in after sales service and spare parts supply, while on the
local market FPM enterprises should improve their contacts with local food
processors to strengthen market feedback and product development; and
(vii) improvements in management organization and systems of enterprises
with special focus on decentralization of activities along major business
units, improvement of market orientation, strategic planning, and control
of operations and financial performance.
39.          The total estimated investment needs for restructing of the
subsector, which will be supported by the Project, is given below.



86 -                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 18
Table 7
Estimated Investment Needs for Restructuring of
Food Processing Machinery Subsector, 1987-90
Ft Million               US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Technological Infrastructure
Marketing and Development
Center a/                    -       -       -        - ,             -
Standardization a/             -       _ 
Subtotal                    -       -       -        -       -       -
Enterprise Restructuring b/   720      628   19348       16.0    13.9    29.9
Total                     720     628   1,348       16.0    13.9    29.9
=_ -   _ _
a/  Combined with agricultural machinery subsector, cost esrimate giver in
para 28.
b/  Including investment needs for software and hardware measures.
40.       It is expected that as a result of the further development of the
subsector including the impact of the restructuring strategy and measures,
the subsector will adjust its structure and product-mix along the
restructuring strategy outlined above and improve its performance. It has
been estimated that during 1986-90 overall output of the subsector will
increase by 23% over the levels achieved during 1981-85.   The expected
increase in output will be mainly for the domestic market (28% increase)
and convertible currency exports which are expected to more than double
(140% increase), while CMEA exports are expected to stabilize. As a result
of the restructuring program, the number of enterprises involved in the
subsector is expected to decrease with a trend toward specialization of
firms.  Also employment is expected to decrease from the current level of
about 7,000 in 1986 to around 5,700 in 1990 as a resqlt of rationalization
efforts by the enterprises.  This will lead to important improvements in
productivity.
Industry Department
May 1987
I



ANNEX 3-3
-87 -                           Table 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Background on Feeder Industries
Production Value of Selected Product Group
(Million Forint in 1981 prices)
Major Product Groups                             1980        1985      1990 a/
Engineering Components & Unit
Parts for General Use                           7,160      11,120     15,650
- Industrial fittings                            2,125       3,160      4,250
- Pipe fittings, armatures                          175        320        650
- Bolts & nuts                                   1,240       1,810      2,350
- Springs                                          265         310        350
- Iron fittings for buildings & furniture        1,015       1,860      3,200
- Oil hydraulics                                   495         990      1,600
- Pneumatics                                       490         710      1,000
- Liquid pumps                                     470         640        750
- Transmissions                                    520         700        750
- Couplings                                        365         620        750
Tools                                            3,840       4,860      6,850
Electric Components & Part Units for
General Use                                     9,600      10,860     12,830
- Electric motors & transformers                 2,395       2,390      2,520
- Electric components & part units               7,205       8,470     10,310
Electronic Components and Part
Units for General Use                             592         839      19496
- Precision engineering components                 480         620      1,080
- Surface mounted devices                            -           -        100
- Uniform module system                            112         219        316
Total                                      21,192     27,679      36,826
a/ Projected.
Source: Ministry of Industry.
Industry Departnent
May 1987



AM   3-3
-68 -                                                              itbe 2
BU -    nW                          L ecr
Roedgrun an Feedr L2&wtvies
HIlion Forlr¢ in 1981 prie)
198D                                 1_                                  1990 a/
Aaieda in                              kxwidtei in                         hOmtei in
Acwtad   covertible                   Acowed    cmawtible                  howcmted   aodwtible
Wblr Product   u                       in bi        a             Total    in Rbl                       T*tal   IM.                          TOta
Og_kwosn and Psrt
lte forGCsa   tUe                      725          795          1,520       9a0          1,420       2,400    1,350         2,660         4,010
- b&wtrl fitting                          90           115           205       190            120         310      380           22D           600
- Pipe fttings,ar.tur,                     -           20             2D         -              -           -       30            20            so
- lowts  aid ts                            5           15             2D        40              -          40       40             -            40
_rbw                                      55            -             55        50              -               50  50            10            sO
-I     fittirp  for btildiW
ard funmitue                           185          350            535       160            7510        910      150         1,650         1,00
-  Ll    1alics                          115           110           225       12             190         310      220           290            SOD
-p imtio                                 125          130            255       190            120         310      200           150           350
- unqu    pq4                             10           15             25        10             40          50       30            50            s0
- Tra'missions                                         40             40        20            120         140       20           160      II     D
-O0XVINI                                 140            -            140       20D             80         280      230           120           350
Twal                                     135           340           475       120            390         510      18D           670           800
Slectul.c 2we!E" for
Grel tbe                               695          440          1,135       850            580       1,430      960           8*0         1,780
-Electric aitor. aid
afom rns                                15          190            205        20            280         300       30           360           390
pwt adts                               680          250           930        830            300       1,13C      910           480         1,390
lectwr si pnt and Part
the   for Oas81 use                    160            70           230       181            139         32D      241           509           no
_redii   eng ri  a            ente       160           70            230       180            130         310      240           500           740
- 9       newited dwi                      -            -              -                -             -       - -                  -             -
- hifareonduesystem                        -            -              -         1              9          10        1             9            10
Total                             1,715         1,646         3,361     2,131          2,529       4,660    2,711         4,679         7,390
~/Projected.
SmaPe: Ministy of Tzitry.
_ -
may 19



AM  3-3
F9 -                   w
aBgrsmund an Feeder aidistries
o08f  SelectedWoduct rea
(-1i4u-  FM-la  in 1981 prim)
1980                                 1985                                1990 a/
hcwitged In                            AcewtudW In                        kA2wlteI In
Acco2wted  coanwrtible         ~       Acwumd    amwrttble                 Accounted   comertible
kl tci                      Total    In aub                      TOW      in ib                        To ibtal
aulimidn  Csnatss and Part
IhIte for Gieral uIe                   475        2,080         2,555        720          2,470       3,190    1,000         1,760         2,760
- b      lwta  fittttp                   165          810            975       2a0          1,O40       1,240      350           750         1,100
- Pip fitths, a        nite                -          270            270         -            190         190        -             -             -
- Baits   d mto                           10          170            180       150            220         370      24d           300           540
-*p                                        -          170            170         -            190         190        -           210           210
-m  fitng  for Iringo
an  futnituA                            30           55             85        30            180         210       30            20            SO
-  ll h cs                               215          280            495       300            260         560      280           170           450
-RAmdrs                                    -          230            230         -            280         280        -           100           100
-Uq4d pmp                                 25           10             35         -             10          10       20            60            80
T-arimlasm                              30           40             70        40             70         110       80           100           180
-c( upg                                    -           45             45         -             30          30        -            50            50
Tbis                                     225        1,760          1,985       700          1,20D       1,900      750           500         1,250
Electdrc QaenFas for
amoral Ute                             23)          955          1,205       320            860       1,180      490           460           950
- Elctric  ,toms ad
t foeers                                60          105            165        SO            200         250      110            90           2)0
-  lectic sra.nts and
pt udAts                               190          850          1,060      270             660         930      380           370           750
Mlectiuaic CosELmt! arA Part
± for Gral UIb                          70          240            310       106            296         402      150           300           450
- Predeim emgtmerii  cWits               70          240           310        100            260         360     10            15D           300
- Swfaca mated devios                                   -             -          -              -           -                    150           150
- Wfommdel syAM                                         -             -          6             36          42        -             -             -
eal                               1,020        5,065         6,085      1,846         4,826        6,672    2,390         3,02D         5,410
Sroe: Mintry of Imd3try.
t 1          rtt
Ifay iS



ANNEX 3-3
- 90 -                          Table 4
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTUIRING PROJECT
Background on Feeder Industries
Domestic Demand for Selected Products
(Million Forint in 1981 prices)
Major Product Groups                             1980        1985      1990 a/
ELngineering Comonents & Unit
Parts foA, General Use                          8,195     11,910      14,350
- Industrial fittings                            2,895       4,090      4,750
- Pipe fittings, armatures                         425         510        600
- Bolts & nuts                                   1,400       2,140      2,850
- Springs                                          380         450        500
- Iron fittings for buildings & furniture          565       1,160      1,450
- Oil hydraulics                                   765       1,240      1,550
- Pneumatics                                       465         680        750
- Liquid pumps                                     480         600        700
- Transmissions                                    550         670        750
- Couplings                                        270         370        450
Tools                                            5,350      6,250       7,250
Electric Components for
General Use                                     9,670      10,610     12,000
- Electric motors & transformers                 2,355       2,340      2,340
- Electric components & part units               7,315      8,270       9,660
Electronic Components and Part
Units for General Use                             672         921      1,196
- Precision engineering components                 450         570        600
- Surface mounted devices                            -         0,1        215
- Uniform module system                            222        351         371
Total                                      23,887     29,691      34,796
a/ Projected.
Source: Ministry of Industry.
Industry Department
May 1987



-91 -                           ANNEX 4-1
Table 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
National Bank of Hungary - Income Statements. 1981-85
(Billion Forints)
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985
Income
Interest Earned                45A       51.9      54.2     61.1      68.2
Commissions Charged             5.2       5.2       6.3      6.9       7.3
Fees, Charges and Others         0.3      0.2       0.4      0.7       1.5
Total Income                 50.8      57.3     60.9      68.7      77.0
ZExenditures
Expenditures on Money
Circulation                    0.7       1.0      0.9       2.1       0.7
Interest                       37.9      47.3     45.4      49.4      59.0
Commissions                      005      0.4       0.5      0.9       1.2
Administrative Cost and
Other costs                     1.2      1.1       1.1      1.2       1.5
Total Expenditures           40.3      49.8     47.9      53.6     62.4
Profit                       10.5       7.5     13.0      15.1      14.6
Industry Department
May 1987t



-92 -                             ANNEX 4-1
Table 2
HUNGARY - SECOND I!DMSTRIAL RESTRUCTURINf PROJECT
National Bank of Hungary - Balance Sheets, 1981-85
(Billion forints)
1981   1982   .983   1984   1985
Assets
Gold, Currency, Foreign Exchange
Holdings & Sight Accounts                   65.1   38.9   78,5  116.6  173.5
Advances, Loans & Credits
Medium & Longterm:
Banks                                     162.2  170.6  170.5  188.9  187.1
Enterprises                               189*5  185.7  186.7  185.4  190.8
State Budget                               26.7   3147  32.4   2547  24.1
Subtotal                                378.4  388.0  389.6  400.0  575.5
Short-term Credits:
Banks                                       24.8   37.4   33.7   44.6   39.8
Enterprises                                103.8  114.3  120.4  137.8  154.7
State Budget                                 0.3    0.9    1.0    0.8    3*6
Subtotal                                128.9  152.6  155.1  183.2  198.1
Other Assets                                  27.3   68.1   84.7   89.5  121.6
Total Assets                            599.7T   647.6  707.9  789.3  895.2
Liabilities & Equity
Term Deposits:
Banks                                    225,2  297.8  291.7  342.5  439.1
Enterprises                               90.9   46.1   41.1   37.3   30.0
State Budget                               1.8    1.9    7.0   1247    1.6
Subtotal                                317.9  345.8  339.8  392.5  470e7
Sight Deposits & Other:
Banks                                       84.7   68.2   82.1   56.2   69.9
Enterprises                                 70.0   79.6   78.5   66.2   79.9
State Budget                                 6.0    8.7    9.6   22.2   14.4
Other                                       10.5   10.9   10.8   12.3   11.7
Subtotal                                171.2  167.4  181.0  156,9  175.9
Notes & Coins                                 8103   87.3   97.8  108.8  122.5
tMF Deposits                                   -      12.2   46.8   72.2   71.8
Other Liabilities                              9p3   17.0   19.0   26.9   21e7
Equity:
Authorized Capital                           6.0    6.0    6.0   10,0   10.0
Reserves                                     3.5    4.4    4.5    6.9    8.4
Profits                                     10.5    7.5   13.0   15.1   14.6
Subtotal                                 20.0   17.9   23.5   32.0   32.6
Total Liabilities & Equity              599.7  647.6  707.9  789.3  895.2
Source: National Bank of Hungary*
Industry Department
may 1987



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRAL RROL TX2 -1ING PRWjECT
Background on I.     arB8
I. Overview
A. Institutional Aspects
1.1      The setting up of a two tier banking system in Hungary is a major
objective of the industrial restructuring program. The reform of the banking
system involves the separation of the central banking activities of the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH) from its credit activities, the establishment
of the credit sections as independent commercial banks, the development of
indirect credit control mechanisms, and setting up a system for supervision of
the new jommercial banks.
1.2      From the beginning 6f 1985,, *e two credit sections of NBH had been
treated de facto as independent organisatiofts, (one- dealing with industrial
credit and the other with. tgr*cuitural credit).  They had s*parate balance
sheets based on their existing portfolios, and their operating costs were set
off against the interest  income generated Xon their portfolios.   The  two
sections were provided funds for their, credit operations under a loan
rediscouanting arrangement from the "central banking" part of NBH on the same
terms as other banks.
1.3      On January 1, 1987, two new commercial banks were established by
separation of tne credit sections from NBH, and a third by the merger of the
credit wing of SDB with the Creditbank of Budapest and the Pest county
Directorate of NBI. The new banks have been allocated customers from the NBH
portfolio. The division of the portfolio was-done to achieve a rough balance
at least between the first two banks.  The banks were set up as jo,nt stock
companies. Their capital is owned by tthe state, as well as by enterprises,
and will be at least 4% of their tot;` assets, iL.e. a total assets/equity
ratio of 25:1.  The banks have their he4.offices in Budapeqt.
1.4      An important aspect of the creation of the new ban)s is that they
will not be confined to the sectors which their predec,ssor credit sectiono
used to sdrve.  The intention is that while they hgTve initially been allocated
clients with whom they are most fa^iliar, the banki should compete effectively
within the enterprise sector as a whole.  Enterpitises will be expected to keep
their current accounts in only one bank, which they will be free to choose and
change if they wish, from July 19 1987. For the present, individuals will not
be permitted to open accounts in the new commercial banks. Only the National
Savings Bank and savings cooperatives will deal with individuals (including
small scale economic associations) and may compete in the provision of
services.   However,  thteir lending and deposit  rates will  continue  to be
centrally fixed! until tL* eventual integration of the enterprise and household
banking sectors.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
Features of the New Commercial Banks
Dev. & Credit         Commercial and       Hungarian
Bank of Budapest       Credit Bank         Credit Bank
(BB)                  (OKHB)              (HCB)
Credit Section of     Agricultural         Industrial
Origin          SDB, Pest county       credit section       credit section
directorate of NBH    of NBH               of NBH
and Creditbank of
Budapest
President       Dr. Oskar Hegedes       Dr.Pal Kis         Mr- andor Demjan
Branches             23                     46                   19
No. of
Accounts          2,800                  3,300                1,600
1.5      Apart from the above three banks which will be created out of NBH and
SDB, the Foreign Trade benk (FTB) will continue to exist largely as before,
and will not have branches.   FTB will also remain the only domestic bank
authorized to deal in foreign currencies. There will be a fifth commercial
bank - the General Banking and Trust Company, which at present provides only
trust services.   This bank has been given  the necessary authorization  to
become a full service commercial bank.
1.6      The reorganization of  the banking system will leave the Nationai
Savings Bank untouched for the time being. The State Development Bank, after
the merger of its credit wing with the Creditbank of Budapest to form BB, will
continue as the State Development Institute, responsible for only the
channelling of budget funds to tute enterprise sector.
1.7      There are already two banks with foreign participation in Hungary -
CITIBANK Budapest and the Central European International Bank (CEIB). A third
foreign bank with IFC participation - UNICBANK - has also been formed
recently. CITIBANK and UNICBANK deal in both foreign and local currencies.
CEIB is an offshore bank which is at present setting up a subsidiary to deal
in Forines.
D. Financial Aspects
1.8      A review of the financial stzucture and situation of the three main
commercial banks which will serve as intermediaries for this project has been
carried ,ut. A number of common features apply to the banks.
1.9      Each bank has started operations with a loan portfolio transferred to
it by NBH.  In the aggregate, Ft 344 billion (including Ft 107 billion of LT
loans) have thus been divided between the banks fcllowing long negotiations
between the banks and NBH to achieve a fair balance in portfolio quality. It
was assumed In a number of cases which had been identified in 1986 as
companies affected by serious financial difficulties, that financial



- 95 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3
restructuring undertaken in 1986 would be adequate to protect the commercial
banks from large risks. As a result, the portfolio has been transferred at
book value, without any initial provision.
1.10     The initial individual and aggregate balance sheets  of  the  three
banks are suQ.arized as follows:
Initial Balance Sheets of Commercial Banks
(Ft billion)
BB      ORUHB      HCB            TOTAL
Assets
Current assets         24.3      80.5       83.0          207.8
Net Loans
ST            19.8       76.0      RO.4           176.2
LT            27.4       60.0      80.0           167.4
Other assets            5.6       5.3        4.7
Total Assets:          57.3     145 8      167.7          370.8
Liabilities:
Current Liabilities   25.4       97.3       92.9          215.6
LT Resources
NBH refinance.    23.6       42.5       68.8          134.9
Time Deposits       6.8    .  3.0        3.0           12.8
Share Cap.(paid-in)    2.5        2.0        3.0            7.5
Total Liab. & Equity  57.3      145.8      167.7          370.8
1.11     To meet the growing credit demand from enterprises, the banks will
have  only  limited  options  initially.   Monetary  policy  in  1987  aims  at
maintaining deposits from enterprises at most -it their current level. The only
likely additional resource would have to be raised from bond issues (also a
limited though growing source of funds) and by drawing from NBH'a short-term
advance facility which is limited to 6 - 8   times share capital, depending on
seasonal variations.   Banks have access to NBH long-term refinance but the
overall amount is regulated in line with Hungary's monetary policy. The net
increase in credit outstanding for investment purposes is not expected to
exceed Ft 5.0 billion in 1987.
1.12     The initial share capital of the banks has been subscribed about 802
by the State and the balance by enterprises and cooperatives. While banks are
free to set their interest rates, it would not be realistic to expect major
changes before the end of 1987 from current and past levels. Interest rates
of the banks would be influenced by (i) interest trends in the market,
especially bones (currently selling at about 11X-11.52 p.a.) which competes
directly with LT deposits, (ii) the rates charged by the Central Bank on its
advances (currently about 9.52 p.a. for ST end 10.5 X for LT), and (iii) the
compulsory reserve requirements of NBH (202 of ST deposits and 101 of LT
deposits) which increases the cost of deposits.



96-
ANNEX 4-2
Page 4
1.13      The combination of these conditions indicate that the profitability
of the banks will remain marginal in the first one or two years of their
creation.   The main uncertainty is in respect of the banks' loan portfolio
whose quality is yet to be established, in spite of the assurances given by
NBH on the quality of the loans it has transferred to the new banks.  t't is
particularly important to note that banking regulations only require that the
banks set aside a maximum of 20S of their pre-tax profits as a risk fund; no
loan-by-loan provisions are  required at  present by bank  regulations.   As
profits in the initial years are likely to be low, the amount accumulated in
the risk fund will probably need to be supplemented by provisions for specific
loan accounts.
C. Legal structure and regulations
1.14     NBH was converted into a typical central bank on January 1, 1987, atd
the new commercial banks that assume account management, deposit holding, end
direct financing of state companies and other productive units came into
being. Legally speaking, the number of commercial banks that can be set up
remains open. A standard approval procedure for granting of banking licenses
has  been  introduced.   The  licences  are  granted  by  the  State  Banking
Supervision Department of the Ministry of Finance (SBS).
1.15     The minimum capital requirement for a fully licensed bank has been
set at Ft 1.0 billion.   The high capital  requirements  together with  the
difficult-   in mobilizing deposits from the system, will deter the creation
of new banks for the near future.
1.16     The three commercial banks formed out of the former general credit
sections of NBH on January 1, 1987, are yet to complete the development of
their organizations, internal rul2s, and working methods. At the same time,
banking authorities are still finalizing their regulations imDlementation
procedures, and supervisory practices have not yet evolved.
1.17     While the danger of major defaults must obviously be avoided, it 58
accepted by the banks that the automatic bail-outs of large loss makers will
be phased out, that financial responsibilities of companies and other
independent units will increase, and that as a consequence, solvency risk will
gradually establish itself as a fact of financial life. The banks would have
to embody this new factor in their financial behaviour and accounting
practice, avoiding, as far as possible, to learn it through a costly process
of trial and error.
D. Supervision of banks
1.18     Bank supervision is  the responsibilty of SBS and NBH.  Although
legislation  allows  for  some  overlapping  of  functions  between  the  two
authorities, it is established that SBS grants (or cancels, as the case may
be) banking licences, exercises supervision on prudential matters, controls
compl:ance with laws and regulations, and concedes, if necessary, adjustment
periods to achieve compliance. NBH's special concerns are matters related to
money and credit control, including reserve requirements, refinancing, and
interest rates. It also oversees the payments system.



- 97 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 5
1.19     External supervision will be based on NBH  internal  data,  and  in
regular bank reports. NBH is about to complete the setting up of mandatory
balance sheets, with their complementary rules, and other statistical forms on
bank activity, related particularly with credit and with paid or received
interest.   It seems  that  the information  requested  is  more  relevant  to
economic  aspects  of  credit  control  than  with  prudential  analysis.   Fbr
instance,not much attention is paid to P&L accounts, to doubtful or
substandard assets, or to ev&luation criteria. This can be due, in part, to
the field of responsibility allocated to NBH, consisting mainly of supervision
of banks in relation to credit policy compliance. Secondly, concern regarding
financial risk is yet to develop into a major consideration in bank
supervision.    This  shouild  promptly  be  rectified.    Precise  accounting
principles and rules, based on internationally accepted standards, should be
adopted.
1.20     In situ examinations will be carried out by S8S.  Biannual audits are
envisaged, with external supervision in between unless noncompliance of
regulations or other unforeseen circumstances make examinations advisable on
specific points. Apparently, more emphasis will be put on rule compliance than
on solvency analysis. This plan of supervision, whose efficacy is of course
yet unproven, seems insufficient when dealing with newly created and
inexperienced entities, set up under adverse general economic conditions and
inheriting a portfolio with an unknown potential of risk. There is likely to
be a scarcity of trained examiners in the SBS and NBH. In order to strengthen
the audit capacity available in the country, technical assistance for carrying
out a feasibility study to establish joint-venture audit organization .is being
provided under the project. The presence of international auditors would also
be useful in revising internal auditing procedures, in evaluating operative
systems, internal flows of information, or internal rules and instructions,
and in assessing and appraising management control of the banks.
E. Regulatory framework
1.21.    Commercial banks and banking joint-ventures have been subject to a
series of restrictions aimed directly as well as indirectly towards protection
of their solvency. These consist, essentially, of: (i) a gearing ratio, (ii)
a liquid assets ratio, (iii) a limit to investments of participative nature,
(iv) a large exposures limit, and, (v) rules of maturit4es matching. The
banks are also authorized to build up a r.serve against risks. In addition,
compulsory reserve requirments, and to some extent the criteria used by NBH
in the allocation of refinancing, work implicitly to complement the regulation
framework though their basic purpose is money and credit control.
(a)    A gearing ratio (balance sheet to equity) limit of 25 times has been
established.   In  this  context,  equity  includes  subscribed  share
capital and reserves.



- 98 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 6
(b)    Liquid assets must be no less than 5b of total assets.  This ratio
has not yet been defined.   It is assumed that liquid assets will
include cash, free deposits with NBH, and even some negotiable
short-term  assets  (bills of exchange).   This  coverage  implies  a
certain degree of overlapping with compulsory reserve requirements.
Given the high level of cash in hand kept by the banks (due to
deficiencies   in  the  payments  system,  and  inexperienced  cash
management of the new banks), this ratio will not be very restrictive
in the near future.
(c)    Investments  of  a  participative  nature  must  not  exceed  202  of
subscribed   capital.    These   investments   include   shares   or
participations,  long  term bonds, and book value of leased goods.
This limit will play an immediately restrictive role on banks' equity
portfolio.    In  some  banks,  these  assets  already  approach  the
prescribed  limit.   This  regulation  has,  obviously,  a  strong
prudential motivation, but at the same time it restricts the role
foreseen for the banks as suppliers of venturs capital, and specially
as developers of new long term financial instruments. Consequently,
a reconsideration of its level and/or coverage could be in order, as
soon as an assessment of credit portfolio quality, and banks' net
worth, is completed in June 1988.
(d)    Large exposures control consists of an absolute limit (501 of equity)
on the credit to one borrower. As some large exposures do exist in
the inherited original portfolios of commercial banks, a two year
adjustment period has been allowed to dispose of excesses, eventually
through formation of consortia with other banks. The apparent reason
for such a long adjustment period is the difficulty of assessing the
standing of these borrowers.   The existing structure of  Hungarian
companies seems to make it difficult to define large exposures to
groups of financially related borrowers on a consolidated basis. The
existence of trusts, affiliated companies, and joint-ventures, may
force reconsideration of the regulations in this respect.
(e)    Maturities  matching  rules  have  not  been  developed  yet.   Taking
account of the role the tanks are expected to play in long term
financing,  and  of  the  tErm  transformation  function  inherent  to
banking, it is expected that a too rigid balance between assets and
liabilities will be avoided.
1.21.    Provisions and reserves.  Banking and accounting regulations do not
allow for the constitution of specific provisions for doubtful credits by
deduction from pre-tax profits. Rowever the banks may form a risk reserve, up
to 20% of pre-tax profit. The risk reserve can be accumulated, and must be
used only to cover actual losses. Independently of these regulations, and in
agreement with international practice, banks should, as they progress in the
evaluation of their portfolio, make an estimation of possible losses. Were
they to exceed, at the closing of 1987 accounts, the mandatory risk reserve, a
case should be presented before S8S to raise it to the required level, and
even to revise the established 20S limit if necessary.



_ 99 _
ANNEX 4-2
Page 7
1.2?     Compulsory reserve requirements.  Commercial and joint-venture banks
must maintain depositb in NPH, blocked for a month, amounting to 20% of short
term deposits (up to a year) plus 102 of long term deposits. The first sum is
not remunerated, the second one carries an interest of 1.5S.   The smallest
amount of cash held in any day of the previous month is computed as reserve.
There are no reserve requirements on interbank liabilities, bonds issued by
the banks are also exempted. NBH adjusts automatically the reserves each
month, debiting (or crediting) the free (working) deposit account of the bank
by the needed amount.  It also grants a credit at a highly penal rate of 18%,
should that a^count fall short of the amount debited.
1.23     Besides prudential and monetary regulations, the new commercial banks
are subject to some institutional restrictions.  They are not permitted to
deal in foreign exchange, to receive deposits from, or to grant credit to
households or individuals, to issue bonds to households or individuals and to
receive interbank placements from NSB and saving cooperatives. Banking
joint-ventures may deal in foreign exchange, but are subject to the other
limitations. These institutional arrangements break up in fact the banking
system in unconnected subsystems, thus reducing its general efficiency in the
allocation of funds.
1.24     The foreign exchange  restriction derives  from  the high  level of
Hungarian foreign debt, which makes it advisable to concentrate foreign assets
and liabilities management in NBH. There is also a shortage of tra'ned forex
specialists.   These  reasons  are,  of course,  real, but do not necessarily
affect all types of foreign exchange operations, they being a natural part of
banking activities.   The  scope of the restrictions should be reconsidered
after the transitional period.
1.25     The prohibition of direct or indirect contact with households  is
based on the present duality of knterest rates applicable to the household
sector as compared to the enterprise sector. These in turn are motivated by
differences in tax treatment of household and enterprise income, and by the
subsidies to housing finance provi&efI by NSB as its main loan activity. The
real probleti is the fear of the potential flight of deposits from NSB.
Provided a transitory system of interest rate ceilings on households deposits
is introduced to prevent an unsustainable run on NSB deposits, the present
restriction could and should be revised for the sake of financial systemic
efficiency.   Alternatively,  as  a  second best,  commercial bank access  to
household savings through selected instruments, duch as bonds, could be
considered.
F. Auditing and accounting
1.26.    Auditing by independent auditors of international standing has not
been foreseen in the case of state-owned commercial banks. On the other hand,
joint-ventures   are  already,  submitted  to  independent  audits.   Domestic
independent accounting services were provided to t'he banks by the General
Banking and Trust Company in the past. This entity has also been licensed as
a commercial bank and therefore would not be accepted by the other banks



- 100 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 8
as an auditor. The creation of adequate auditing arrangements for the banking
sector is perhaps the most pressing requirement resulting from the banking
system  reform.   Accordingly,  funding  for a feasibility study of  a joint
venture for prevision of auditing services will be provided under the
project.   As  for  internal  auditing,  the  banks  will  have  a  Supervisory
Committee, elected by the General Assembly of shareholders and independent of
the Board of Directors and of the management.
II. The Participating Commercial Banks
A. The Commercial and Credit Bank Ltd (OKHB)
1. Institutional Aspects
2.1      OKHB  originated  from  the  former  agricultural  and  food  industry
departments of NBH.  It was endowed with initial share capital of FT 6.59
billion  (US$146 million)  302 of which is paid-in.  The balance is to be
contributed before June 30 1987.  The major stockholder is the government
(86X).   The  remainder  of  the  capital  is owned by  387 agricultural  and
industrial companies.
2.2      OKHJ's organization  chart  is contained  in the project  file.   It
carries out the operational activities through its head office in Budapest and
46 branch offices. Its main lending activity is in agriculture which make up
about 652 of its investment portfolio and about 701 ef its working capital
financing.   Branch  offlces  are  gresponsible  for  appraisal  of  projects,
disbursement land repayment of loans', administration of deposits and branch
office accounting.
2.3      OKHB is managed by a chairman in charge of day-to-day operations,
assisted by a management committee, composed of the heads of the main
departments. OKHB's head office has a clear operational structure with three
main line departments responsible for the following specific sectors of
activities: (i) operations department - responsible for administration of
headquarters and all operations including branch offices, (iii) corporate
policy department - responsible for economic studies, investment policy and
development, and (iii) accounting department.   Four offices are in a staff
position to the chairman: secretary, legal, personnel and real estate.
2.4      OKHB has a staff of 1800, of which about 371  are college or high
school graduates. They were mainly transferred from the former agricultural
credit and food industry department of NBH. They are adequately qualified
professionals but except for top management most have limited experience with
commercial bank operations.   Intensive training and technical assistance for
institution building is required especially in the areas of: (a) project
appraisal, (b) management information systems, and (c) promotion of loans and
new banking activities.



- 101 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 9
2.5      OKHB's objectives and functions are those described in the Seventh
Five-Year Plan (1986-90). At present OKHh finances principally agricultural
lending. It has about 2300 custemers among which are 900 state farm" and
cooperatives,   800  industrial  and  agro-industrial  companies,  290  trade
companies.  The bank's objective is to continue its traditional lending-vwith
emphasis on export and import substitution. The bank will also give priority
to energy conservation and waste recycling projects. The bank is eager to
expand its banking activities, but it has not yet developed a clear strategy
and set up the necessary framework. Its portfolio is mainly invested in long
term lending, indicating the prominent role that the institution plays in
development, especially in the agricultural sector.   It plays an important
role in onlending of World Bank loans.
2.6      OKHB  is free,  as  are  the other  commercial banks,  to adjust its
lending and deposit rates. At prqent it is continuing to apply the interest
rates applied ,before its creation in respect of the loa' portf.olio it has
inherited.  Thi's results in a narrow interest rate spread of about 1.51 on its
long  term portfolio.   This  spre4d  is particularly narrow  for OKHB which
finances moitly agriculture, where appraisa' of loans are most difficult given
the uncertainty of output and where the risk of defaults on loans is higher.
2. Fivancial Aspects
2.7      Presently, agriculture and agro-industry account for 27% and 242 of
total portfolio respectively, while trade (mainly export) and tourisn~ account
for 32.9S and industry only for 12.4S. Although the bank's debt/equity ratio
was about 72:1 as of January 1 1987; it will come to 25:1 as soon as all the
share capital is paid in by-1988 and reach the allowed maximum level of 24:1
in 1989.
2.8      OKHB has been the first bank in Hungary to issue bonds for its own
funding. The bonds, which were sold to enterprises, have a face value of FT 1
billion. The bank intends to tap the local bond market regularly to increase
its  resources.   It  intends  to delegate  more  responsibility  for resource
mobilizatlon to the branches including development of secondary trading of
bonds.
2.9      OKHB's 10 largest company accounts represented 15S of total portfolio
as of January 1 1987. Based on the bank's assessment, only one company has
experienced financial difficulties. OKHB has agreed to supply the Bank with
detailed financial data and assessment about the 10 largest accounts in its
portfolio by April 15, 1987.
3. Qperational and Financial Projections
2.10     The basis  for OKHB's  operational  prospects  is  the  1987 monetary
program of the Government, according to which demand deposits and L.T.deposits
show no increase, while ST deposits decrease by 52 during 1987.   For the
remaining 4 years , demand deposits are projected to  increase by 151, ST



- 102 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 10
and LT deposits by 10% each year.   Paid-in capital will increase to Ft 6
hillion in 1988, according to the bank's creation plan. OKHB expect to
purchase government bonds for Ft 2 billion for the next 3 years. LT lending
increases by 52 which is a reasonable rate of growth for a new bank.   The
consequent increase in LT refinancing needed totals Ft 2.34 billion, which is
acceptable according to the monetary program.  ST lending is projected to grow
faster than L.T. lending at ;an lannual rate of 10%, consistent with OKHB's
policy to emphasize S.T. lendiqg.
2.11     Provisions will increase jfrom 1% of outstanding loan portfoiio to 32
in 1991. 4This rate of growth is essential because the portfolio was
transferred without any provision allocation or write-offs of bad debts.  The
leverage ratio set by NBH not to exceed 25:1 is well respected by OKHB.
2.12     Profitability will be poor in the early years: profit/average assets
ratios will be at 1.3% in 1987, 1.8b in 1988, then increase to 3.12 in 1991.
This small profit margin is a clear proof that the present margin of 1.52 on
refinanced loans is not enough to enable the bank to be profitable, nor to
improve its operations. A margin of 3.5% is considered more appropriate. A
summary of the Projected financial statements is given in Attachment 1.
B. The Budapest Credit and Development Bank Ltd (BB)
1. Institutional Aspects
2.12     BB  was  established  through  the  merger  of  the  former  Budapest
Creditbank, the credit branch of the State Development Bank and the Pest
county officea of NBH.   Its initial subscribed capital is Ft  3.5 billion
(US$78 million).   The  government  is  the majority  stockholder  (852).   The
remainder of capital is subscribed by 40 industrial and agricultural
enterprises.   About  33% of  the  subscribed  capital  has  been  paid-in.  The
remainder will be paid-in before June 1987.
2.13     BB operates  through  its head  office  in  Budapest  and  22  branch
offices, 4 of which in the Budapest area.  Its main sectors of activity are
industry and services mainly inherited by the former State Development Bank.
The branch offices have the main responsibility for consumer relations,
disbursement and repayment of loans and maintaining consumer deposits and
accounts.   Appraisal  and  supervision  is  also  carried out  in  the branch
offices.  The basic function of mobilisation and management  of  resources,
planning and budgeting are the responsibility of the head office staff.
2.14     BB's organization structure is heavily field oriented. Branch offices
carry out the bulk of lending activities under a vice president of lending
operations who operates from the headquarters with a group of sectoral
advisors, in joint venturb financing, industry, construction and food and
agriculture.  Two p.rallel support departments are led by two deputy general
managers. One is in charge of general administration includir.g accounting
operations,and the second of credit support activities including corporate



- 103 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 11
policy development, 'economic policy and Investment analysis. Four offices are
in staff position to the chairmanl manager.  BB's organizational structure is
the one basically inherited from the State Development Bank. It needs to be
strengthened with regard to the development and diversification of lending
activities and of banking activities to increase revenue.
2.15     BB has a staff about 9UO employees, 302 of whom are college graduates
and professionals. The staff are in need of professional training. This will
be partly funded under the proposed project.
2.16     At present BB finances 1700 business organizations.   Its investment
lending is mainly to the chemical  industry,  mining and agriculture.   The
spread between interest rates on LT loans is presently about 1.52 and is
rather inadequate to cover potential costs of such a portfolio, composed of
relatively large individual accounts.   Appraisal and supervision procedures
also need to be strengthened to assure selection of viable clients and
adequate technical and financial assessment of the proposed investment.
2. Financial Aspects
2.17     At present, 75% of BB's loan portfolio is in the industrial sector,
agriculture accounts for about 15 2. BB expects to maintain its share in the
industrial sector bu  plans to increase ST financing at the expense of LT
which  is  more  risky  and  less  remunerative.   At  present  BB's  financial
structure is the best of the three banks; this would be even more so when
subscribed share capital would be fully paid-in in June 1987; at that time
debt equity ratio would probably be about 15:1, which is well below the limit
of 24:1 allowed in the banking legislation.
2.18     While an operations/lending program has not yet been formulated, BB
h&s indicated its intention to develop leasing, factoring, commercial papers,
and bonds - especially the management of enterprise bond issues.  BB has an
advantage in bond market operations, compared to the other two banks as it
inherited the staff and the infrastructure for trading of household and
enterprise bonds from SDB.
2.19     Although BB has not assessed its whole portfolio yet, out of its 10
largest company clients which represent Ft. 25.7 billion (54% of the total
loan portfolio), five have had serious financial diffic4lties in the past.
Among the five companies, one was financially restructured in 1986.  In the
remaining four cases, BB expects to reach workable solutions with the MOI in
the course of 1987. In addition, BB loans to these enterprises are secured by
a state guarantee and mortgages in case of default.
3. Operational and Financial Projections
2.20     The basis for BB's operational projections is the monetary program
for 1987, accordingly demand deposits and LT deposits show no increase, while
ST deposits decrease by 5%  in  1987.   For  the  remaining 4 years, demand



- 104 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 12
deposits will increase by 152, and ST and LT deposits by 102 p.a.. Paid-in
capital will increase to Ft 4 billion, according to the bank's creation plan.
BB expects to purchase government issued bonds for Ft 1 billion for the next 3
years. LT lending increases by 5S. The increase in LT refinancing needed
totals Ft 1.74 billion (752 of LT lending).  This increase  is accpetable
according  to  the monetary  policy.  The increase in ST lending by 102 is
consistent with BB's policy to emphasis ST lending.
2.21     Provisions will ire:rease from 1% of outstanding lending portfolio to
4% in 1991.   This  rate of growth is essential because the portfolio was
transferred without any provision allocation or write-offs of bad debts. The
liquidity of BB improves only slightly. The current ratio increases from 0.74
in 1987 to 0.92 in 1991.
2.22     The ST refinancing/subscribed capital ratio, which is set by NBH not
to exceed a maximum of 6.75 times, is only 0.72 in 1987, increases to 1.87 in
1988 then drops to below 1.08 in the following years. This provides BB with
flexibility of resources when needed. The leverage ratio set by the central
bank not to exceed 25:1 is well respected by BB. This low leverage allows BB
to increase its lending while raising resources through borrowings.
2.23     The profitability ratio of net profit/average assets starts at a very
low level of l.5S for 1987, and increases to 3.82 in 1991.  As such, the
margin profit of 1.5% on lending financed through refinancing from NBH would
be  too  low.   A  Swummary  of  Projected  financial  statemeAts  is  given  in
Attachment 2.
C.  Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB)
1. Institutional Aspects
2.24     HCB originates from the former industrial credit department of NBH.
It has an initial share capital of Ft 8.9 billion (US$198 million).   The
majority stockholder (721) is the Government.  The remainder of the capital
stock is owned by 340 industrial and agricultural companies.   331 of  the
capital stock has been paid-in. The entire capital will be paid in before
March 1988.
2.25     HCB's organizational chart is contained in the project file.  WBC
operates through its headquarters in Budapest and 23 branch offices. Its main
sectors of activities are industry and infrastucture. However about 1/3 of
its portfolio eonsists of working capital and investment loans to agriculture
and agro-industrial state farms and cooperatives. The branch offices of HCB
have the main responsibility for appraisal of projects, disbursement and
repayment of loans, administration of customers' deposits snd accounting. The
main activity of management of resources, planing and budgeting and general
supervision are the responsability of the head office staff.



- 105 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 13
2.26     The head of the bank is the Chairman who is aseisted by a management
committee made up of the heads of main departments. The main activity of the
institution is heavily concentrated under two line departments headed by two
deputy general manaaers.   These are:  (i) the credit operations department
divided into 7 operational divisions dealing with industry, infrastructure,
agriculture and agro-industry, buildings, transport and services, chemical
industry and special ban4ing activities such as operating leasing, and (ii)
the support services department divided into 5 divisions: business policy,
economic  studies,  accounting  and  auditing,  currency  transactions  and
maintenance.
2.27     The organization  chart  reflects generally the line of the former
industrial credit department of NBH with clear demarcation between lending
operations and support activities. Now, emphasis will have to be given to
mobilisation of resources and promotional activities for increased lending and
development of banking activities and the use of financial instruments in
support of commercial activities.
2.28     The senior mangers of ,ICB as well as middle management are mostly
drawn from NBH. They are experienced professionals in commercial as well as
development banking. HCB has commenced operations with a total of 1650 staff
of which about 500 are coltege graduates and constitute the bulk of management
and professionals carrying out lending and support activities. There is need
of intensive training and technical assistance for institution building
especially in the following areas: (a) project appraisal, (b) management
information system, (c) accounting, budgeting and planning, and (d) project
promotion and promotion of banking activities.
2.29     HCB's objectives are to promote and finance productive enterprises in
industry,  agriculture,  infrastructure.   At  present  HCB  has  about  3200
customers,  252 of which are  in Budapest.   Its portfolio  is about evenly
distributed in investment financing (521) and short term financing. It plays
a major role in onlending of World Bank funds equivalent to Ft 9 billion.
2.30     Appraisal of short term and hire purchase loans consists mainly of
checks of borrowers' final financial position and liquidity, credit record and
adequacy  1of  collateral,  which  seems  to  be  adequate.    Appraisal  and
supervisions of long term investment lending is done with the assistance of
specialist iustitutions$ and the procedures laid down in an oper .&inal manual
prepared in conjunction with the Bank-Financed Industrial Export rroject (Loan
No. 2397)
2. Financial Aspects
2.31     HCB's loan portfolio  is mainly in  the  industrial  sector  (66%),
agriculture (92), agro-industry (51) and transport and telecommunications
(41).   The  main  industrial  sub-sectors  are  electrical  and  mechanical
industries and chemicals.  HCB's objective is to reduce its long term lending
and develop its leasing and bond activities. It also intends to participate
actively  in  the  inter-bank  market.   In ICB's opening balance  sheet  the
debt/equity ratio was 55:1. However, as soon as the total share capital is
paid in by 1988 the debt/equity ratio would be below the allowed maximum of
24:1.



- 106 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 14
2.31     Presently , the 10 largest accotmts of HCB represent 22.4% of total
portfolio.  Although HCB is still in the process of assessing its portfolio,
12  companies  have  had   financial  difficulties  in  the  past  including  3
companies among its 10 largest clients, but HCB has received state guarentees
and mortgages to protect itself against possible losses.  These 12 companies
represent Ft 21 billion in outstanding loans (132 of total portfolio). Based
on HCB's assessment, 11 of the companies have soumd financial situation now
because most of them were restructured in 1986. The bank does not expect any
future losses or arrears, except for the remaining company, which has a very
small amount outstanding (Ft 28 million). HCB cancelled its entire loan and
will start liquidation procedures. Before negotiation of the proposed loan
HCB has agreed to provide the Bank with detailed financial data and assessment
on he 10 largest accounts fnd the 12 mentioneC above.
3. Operational and Financial Projections
2.32     Based on the assumptions un4erlying the monetary purvey for 1987, HCB
projects no increase in demand deposits and LT deposits, while ST deposits
would decrease by 51 during 1987. For the remaining 4 years, demand deposits
will increase by 151, ST and LT deposits by 0l as also assumed by the other
two banks.   Paid-in capital will increase to  Ft 9 bilion  in  1988.   HCB
expects to purchase government issued bonds for Ft 2 billion for the next 3
years. LT lending increases by 51. The increase in LT refinancing needed
totals Ft 2.07 billion  (752 of LT lending).   This increase is within the
limits set in the monetary program. The increase in ST lending is projected
to increase by 101 per year, consistent with HCB's policy to emphasis ST
lending.
2.33     Provisions will increase from 1% of outstanding lending portfolio to
31 in 1991.  The liquidity of HCB improves only slightly.  The current ratio
increases from 0.83 in 1987 to 1.01 in 1991. The ST refinancing to subscribed
capital ratio, which set by the central bank not to exceed a maximum of 6.75,
is 6.72 in 1987, decreases to 5.57 in 1990 due to the increase in paid-in
capital but will increase to 6.53 times again, which is still within the
limits.
2.34     The leversge ratio set by NBE not to exceed 25:1 is respected by HCB
from 1988, after a projected capital increase in June 1988. The profitability
ratio of net profit/average assets starts at a low of 1.41 in 1987 and
increases gradually to 3.21 in 1991. This low profitability in the first two
years , and the very small profit margin later, points to the need to raise
lending rates by about two points, and also to step up other activities such
as  leasing  to  increase HCB's margins.   A  Summary  of Projected  financial
statements is given in Attachment 3.
EMENA/IDF
May 1987



-107-                                     ANNEX 4-2
Attachmieit  1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Comercial tad Credit Bank
Summary of Projected Fimaci7l Statesents
RATIOS OF PROFITABILITY                                                 1987      198s      1989    19 1O991
(AS PERCEiTA6E OF AVERAGE ASSETS)                                    129       150       162       176       193
PROFIT BEFORE TAX, RISK FUND AND PROY                  2.9X      3.6?      3.72      4.4?     5.3t
PROFIT BEFRE 'AXES AnD RISK FUND                       1.9?      2.52      2.6?     3.32      4.1X
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                    !.3?      1.92      1.9?     2.42      3.1I
NET PROFIT                                             0.0       0.21      0.22     0.5?      0.9X
FINANCIAL INCORE                                       9.0?      9.71      9.9Z    '0.01    10.2?
FINANCIAL EXPENSES                                     6.1?      6.12      5.9%     '.82      S.5%
EARNIN6 SPREAD                                         2.9?      3.7%      3.9%      4.,2     4.6?
(AS PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE LOAN PORTFOLIO)                            105       105       123       137      153
INTEREST INCOME                                      11.7%    12.9?    12.4?    12.2S    12.1?
INTEREST EXPENSE                                       '.9%     8.01      7.5?      t.1?      6.7%
INTEREST SPREAD                                       3.72      4.n       4.8?      5.0%      5.4?
(AS PERCENTA6E OF AVERAGE EUUITYI                                      5         9        tl        14        18
PROFIT BEFORE TAX, RISK FUND AND PROY                 84.6?    58.6%    52.3?    53.4I    55.2?
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES AND RISK FUND                     54.61    40.22    36.8%    39.89    43.4?
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                   37.72    28.52    26.3%    29.1?    32.4?
*       NET PROFIT                                             0.4%      2.7?      3.3X      5.6%     8.1?
. RATIOS 8F LIQOUIDITY
CURRENT RAI10                                         0.75     0.82      0.87      0.95      1.03
TOTAL DEPOSITS   T tOTAL LOANS                        0.50     0.50      0.53      0.54      0.58
TOTAL REFINANCING / TOTAL LOANS                       0.72     0.67      0.63      1.59      0.54
S.T. DEPOSITS I CASH t S.T. LOANS                     1.33      1.20     1.13      1.03      0.94
L.T. DEPOSITS / L.T. LOANS                            0.51     0.57      0.65      0.78      0.94
DEBT SERVICE COVCRASE RATIO                           0.88     0.80      0.87      0.94      1.03
INTEREST COVERABE RATIO                              0.15      0.21      0.20      0.22      0.24
S.T. REFINANCING I SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL                6.74      6.70      6.47      6.3:      6.06
RATIOS OF STRUCTURE
TOTAL DEBT I YEAR-END 'QUITY                        16.49    14.02    12.16    10.43         8.78
L.T. DEBTI YEAR-END EQUITY                           2.60      2.37      2.30      2.14      1.94
ASSETS / YEAR-END EQUITY                            17.49    15.02    13.19    11.43         9.78
PROVISIONS 1,YEAR-END PORTFOLIO                      0.01      0.01      0.02      0.02      0.03
RATIOS OF EFFICIENCY
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES I TOTAL ASSETS               0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0101
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES / TOTAL EIPENSES             0.11      0.12      0.12      0.12      0.12
DISBURSEMENTS I AVERMAE CURRENT '-A1ILITIES           ).09     0.16      0.20      0.24      0.27
IENNA/ IDF
may 1987



ANNEX 4-2
- 108 -                                     Attachment 2
&,.sA-RY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL UMSTRUCTURING PROJECT
Buda,zst Credit and D,velgoment Bank
Summary of Propjeted Financial Statements
RATIOS OF PROFITABILITY                                            :987     1988      *989     1990     1991
'AS PERCENTAE OF AVERA8E ASSETS)                                 60        67       76       82        88
?ROFIT BEFORE TAX, RISK FUND AND PhOV              3.2%      4.0%     4.3%     5.1X     6. 1%
PRGFIT BEFORE TAXES AND RISK FUND                  2.0%      2.7%     3.0%     3.8%     4.7%
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                1.17.    1.9?      2. 1     7.aY     3.5I
NET PRFIT                                          0.0      0.2%     0.2X     0.57.    0.9%
FINANCIAL INCOME                                   8.7%      ?.4%     9.67.    ?.8%    1C.0%
FINANCIAL EXPENSES                                 5.3%      5.4%     :.3%    5.17     5.0%,
EARNING SPREAD                                     3.4?      4;0%     4.3%     4.7%     5.!X
(AS FERCENTASE OF AVERASE LOAN PFRTFOLIO)                        45        49       57       64        '0
INTEREST INCOI£                                   11.32    12.0Z   11.8%    11.8%    1!.8X
INTEREST EXPENSE                                   6.9?     6.97      6.6%     6.3%     6_.a
,NTEREST SPREAD                                    4.4%     5.11%     5.2%     5.4X     5.7%
(AS PERCENTArE OF AVERAGE. EUITY1                                 3         Y        6        8        IQ
PROFIT BEFORE TAX, RISo FUND AND PROV             63.4%    54.5%    48.1%    47.91    52.4Z
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES AND RISK FUND                 39.3?    33..41    33.6     3'.6%    41.0X
PROFIT BE!ORE TAXES                               27.'%    26.5%    2'.9%    26.Q0    '0.S%
NET PROFIT                                        -0.8?      2.51     2.B%     4.9%     7.4%
RATIOS OF LIQUIJDTY
CURRENT RATIC                                     0.7'    0.76       0.80     Q.84     0.?1
TOTAL DEPOSITS I TOTAL LCANS                      0.96     0.88      0.84     0.83     0.84
TOTAL REFINANCINS I TOTAL LOANS                        0.v5  0.55    0.52     0.50     0.46
S.T. DEPOSITS I CASH + S.T. LOP.iS                1.35      1.31     1.23     '.!6    1.?7
L.T. DEPOSITS I L.T, LOANS                        0.66     C.6?      0.69     0.74     0.79
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                       0.78     0.77      0.8!     0.88     0.95
:NTEREST DMVERASE RAT'O                           0.17     O.1       0.1'9    0.22     0.24
S.T. REFtINACING /SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL              0.?4      1.90     1.12     1.03  A.71
RATIOS CF STRlUCTURE
TOTAL DEBT i YEAR-END EDUI'TY                    12.73    12.57      8.74     8.17     7.18
L.T. DEBT! YEAR-Eftf EQUITY                       3.35     3.51      2.81     2.94     2.69
ASSETS ,' YEAR-E,D EQUITY                        13.73    ,3.57      9.74     q.!7     8.IE
PRCVIS!ONS I YEAR-END PORTFOLIO                  01.0!     0.02      0.03     0.03     0.04
RATIOS OF EFFICIENCY
ADNINISTRATIYE EJPENSES I TOTAL ASSETS            0.01     O.B'    0.01       0.01     0.01
ADRINISTRATIVE EXPENSES I TOTAL EXPENSES          0.14     0.14      0.14     0.14     0.13
DISBURSERENTS J AVERAGE CURRENT LIABILITIES       0.15     0.27      0.45     0.61     0.78
FENK/IWDF
May 1987



ANNEX 4-2
- 109 -                                    Attachment 3
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Hungarian Credit Bank
Suumary of Projected Financial Statements
P.ATIO9 OF PROFITABILITY                                             1987      1988     198q      1990     1991
*   (AS PERCENTAGE 6F AVERAGE ASSETS)                                  167       187      197       226      252
PROF'T BEFORE TAX, RISK FUND AND PROV                3.2%     4,0%      4.7%     4.9%      5.6b
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES AND RISK FUND                    2.1%     2.8%      3.5X     3.6%      4.3%
MPROFIT BEFORE TAtES                                 1.4%     2.0%      2.5%      2.7%     3.2%
NET PROFIT                                           0.0%     0.2%      0.o%     0.5%      0.8%
FINANCIAL INCOBE                                     9.3Z.   10.0%   1.2%    10.3%    10.5%
FINANCIAL EXPENSzS                                   7.0%     7.;%      6.8%     6.8%      6.8%
EARNING SPREAD                                       2.3%     2.9%      3.4%      3.5%     3.7%
(AS PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE LOAN PORTFOLIO)                         133       140       156      !77       204
INTEREST INCOME                                     11.7%    12.6%    12.4%    12.1%    11.9%
INTEREST EXPENSE                                     e.8%     9.0%      8.4%     8.1%      7.97%
INTEREST SPREAD                                      2.9%     3.6%      4.0%     4.0%      4.0%
(AS PERCENTAGE OF AVERAGE E£UITY)                                   4         f        14       19        25
PROFIT BEFORE TAX, RISK FUND AND PROV              150.4%    86.5     66.4%    55.3%    53.5%
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES AND RISK. FUND                  98.0a    60.3%    49.2%    41.0%    41.5%
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                 67.qZ    4!.O%     5.9%   3S.0%    30.8%
AE  PPOFIT                                           1.7X     4.9%      6.71     '.6%      7.3%
RATIOS OF LISUIDITY
CURRENT RATIO                                       0.83     0.?3      0.93     0.97      I.Al
TOTAL DEPOSITS ! TOTAL LOANS                        0.26     0.33      0.35     0.32      0.32
TDTAL REFINANCIN6 / TOTAL LOANS                     0.84     0.74      0.71     0.70      0.69
S.T. DEPOSITS f CASH t S.T. LOANS                   1.20     1.07      1.05     !.01      0.9t
L.T. DEPOSITS f L.T. LOANS                          ,.76     0.81      0.80     0.77      0.81
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO                         0.97     0.88      0,9      1.01      1.05
INTEREST COVERA8E RATIO                             0.23     0.25      0.27     0.28      0.28
S.T. PEFINANCING I SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL               6.72     6.7l      6.67     5.57      6.53
RATIOS OF STRUCTURE
TOTAL DE8T I YEAR-END EtJITY                       39.43    14.41    12.26      9.01      8.30
L.T. DE8T/ YEAR-END EQUITY                          9.55     3.9t      3.62     2.54      2.31
ASSETS / YEAR-END E3UITY                           40.43    '5.41      3.2L    10.01      9.30
PROVISIONS I YEAR-END PORTFOLIO                     0.01     0.01      0.02     0.03      0.03
RATIOS OF EFFICIENCY
ADNINISTRATIVE EXPENSES I TOTAL ASSETS              0.01     0.01      0.0Q     0.04'     0.01
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES ; TOTAL EXPENSES            0.06     0.06      0.06     0.07      0.07
DIEBURSENEITS I AYERAGE CURRENT LIABILITIES         0.0      0.21      0.3T     0.42      C.47
EHENA/ IDF
May 1987



- 110 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Background .n Subsectors' Main Enterprises
A. Rubber Processing Subsector
1.   Taurus Rubber Works
1.          In 1963 several rubber processing enterprises, including the
first rubber company in Hungary which was founded in 1882, were merged
to create Taurus Rubber Works (Taurus) as a state-owned enterprise.   At
present it is the dominating enterprise in the subsector producing about
70% of the total rubber products output in Hungary.   Taurus has 6 major
factories with 11 plants comprising of 24 workshops at different sites
around Hungary (see 1ap). At present Taurus employs over 11,000 people.
2.         Taurus has two principal activities:   (i) research, development
and manufacturing of a wide range of rubber products with related marketing
at home ana abroad; and (ii) trading of other producers' as well as
imported rubber goods and raw materials.   Tne split of Taurus'  sales
between own production and trading activities has remained relatively
constant with around two thirds for own production and one third for
trading. The following table shows the development of Taurus sales during
1981P85.
Table 1
Taurus - Details of Sales Revenues, 1981-85
Annual
Growth,
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985   1981-85
--    (Ft million in current prices)    (Constant
Prices)
Taurus Produced Goods    7,215    7,335    8,133    9,010    9,664    2.1
Of which:
Domestic Sale           4,668    4,747    4,880    5,307    5,609   (0.5)
CHEA Sale               1,112    1,029    1,313    1,364    1,591    3.6
Non-CMEA Sale           1,435    1,559    1,940    2,339    2,464    8.6
Traded Goods              4,013    4,277    4,000    4,075    4,370   (3.0)
Total Sales         11,228   11,612   12,i33   13,085   14,034    0.4
3.         While the overall growth of sales of Taurus' own products sale
has been 2.1% per year (in constant prices) over 1981-85, exports have



- 111 -                          AI1NEX 4-3
Page 2
grown faster at 7.3% per year, especially to convertible currency markets
(8.6% per year). This has been offset by a small decline of 0.5% per year
in the considerably larger volume of domestic sales.   Similarly in the
trading activities, there has been a decline of 3% per year which was due
to a rapid decline of about 14% per year in the value of hard currency
imports, which was only partially offset by a rapid increase of 8% per year
in the hard currency resale of rubber products of other Hungarian
enterprises.   Of its total sales of own products of Ft 9,664 million
(US$193 million) in 1985, the contribution of its major processed rubber
goods  are:   truck and agricultural tires,  35%;  hydraulic,  rotary and
special hoses, 12%; belting products, 10%; technical goods, 7%; and camping
and air springs, each 5%.   The domestic market accounts for 58% of its
sales of own products, while CMEA and non-CMEA exports are 16% and 26%,
respectively.    rhe  major  exports  in  non-CMEA  markets  are  truck  and
agricultural tires (12% of total sales), camping goods (4X); belting
products (2%), and hoses (2%) to North America, Europe, and selected
countries in the Middle East. Taurus has established its trading company
in Hungary in 1981, a wholly owned company in the USA, and joint-venture
companies in the FRG and UK. In addition it has a network of distributors
covering most of the major markets in the world including some developing
countries.
4.           Taurus has established close contacts with numerous local and
foreign institutions and enterprises for the technical development and
licensing of its products. Although it has been able to develop products
with competitive design features, its narrow range of products and sizes
due to its limited access to resources for upgrading of RD&E and production
facilities provides consi6erable disadvantages in the commercialization of
its products. Further, its productior. technologies and techniques are old,
production layouts are poor, and production organization inefficient.
There is an urgent need of upgrading and replacing production and quality
control -quipment as well as consolidation of its numerous dispersed
workshops.   The production advantages due to lower cost of raw materials
from CMEA and lower cost of labor compared to major European rubber
producers is offset to a large extent by higher rates of material scrap,
rejection of finished goods, and material usage; higher energy consumption;
lower productivity; and higher overhead costs.
5.         Overall control and direction of Taurus is provided by the newly
created Enterprise Council of 37 members in accordance with recent
enterprise  management  system  reform.        Its  organization  is  highly
centralized  and  functional  in  nature  and  has  led  to  a  complex
decision-making   process   and   slow   management   development.         The
management systems of the enterprise need to be upgraded, particularly for
marketing, financial accounting and management, and information systems.
The enterprise also lacks the tools of an integrated planning system.  In
addition to its organizatibn and management system there are other
"tsoftware" areas, such as technical and marketing information, quality
control system, and training, which require substantial strengthening in
order to provide efficient supporting facilities for the enterprise.



- 112 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 3
6.        Taurus has & very satifactory financial situation.  A summary of
the main financial indictors is provided in Attachment 1.  Its profit has
been about 10% of sales over the recent years.  Its trading activity has
been most profitable with a return of 30-35% of sales. The domestic sales
have generated profits of about 5% on sales on average.   The overall
convertible currency sales, which had shown a break-even performance in the
early 1980s, have been unprofitable lately (around 3% on sales in 1985).
The CMEA exports, which are carried out in the context of barter trade
agreements, made a profit of 10-15X over 1981-85.
2. Kaloplasztik
7.         Kaloplasatik was established in 1964 by the executive committee
of  the  local  county  council.    The  enterprise,  located  in  Kalocsa,
originally started as a plastic processing enterprise with rubber
constituting a small portion of its production. At present, its operations
are about evenly divided between rubber and plastic processing activities.
It is a medium size enterprise with 520 employees and operates two plants
in Kalocsa and Dunapataj (20 miles from Kalocsa).
8.         The rubber processing activities of Kaloplasztik can be grouped
into 3 major operations namely:  moldings, extrusions and compounds.  Its
products (profiles, compounds, water seals and machine components) are
mostly specific to a given customer. Kaloplasztik uses standard production
technologies of mixing, extrusion and molding.   Its products are fairly
competitive in relation to competitors, both domestic and foreign. However
its comparative advantage would further increase if it reduces its high
energy consumption, maintenance cost, material scrap and usage, and
overheads.    Further,  it  needs  to upgrade  and  replace  its  equiipment
technologies; for example, it should move away from its installed
technology of compression molding towards a more productive injection
molding technology.
9.            The enterprise is governed by a 43-man Board of Delegates
(council) representing the emplXqees of the enterprise. The council elects
the managing board for running the enterprise for a duration of five
years.   The current organization combines the two business activities -
rubber and plastics processing - with no clear organizational distinctions
between them.   Given thq present size of the enterprise, this lack of
distinction does not appear to be an obstacle in the decision-making
process.   Kaloplasztik has a comprehensive management reporting system
which is in the process of being updated with a new computer.   Some
management functions such as finance, control and strategic planning need
to be strengthened.
10.        All of Kaloplasztik's sales are to domestic clients, although
several products are involved in indirect export. Each of its products is
typically sold to one or two major clients only. The overall growth of its
sales has been 2.4% per year over 1981-85 (in 1985 prices), with rubber
processing activities showing a higher growth of 3.9% per year. The growth
of rubber goods sales was caused by the start-up of the compounds activity
in 1981-82, while the sales of the molded and extruded operations have



-113 -                          UNIX 4-3
Page 4
decreased at around 32 per year.  The overall profitability of the rubber
processing was very satisfactory at 13X of sales in 1985.   The major
financial indicators are shown in Attachment 1,
Bo Aricultural Machinery Subsector
1. Raba
11,       Raba is one of the largest and more dynamic Hungarian enterprises
which was established in 1896 in Gyor to produce railroad cars.   Raba's
overall sales of Ft 24.6 billion (US$492 million) in 1985 are dominated by
crucks, engines, undercarriages and components, while agricultural field
machinery accounts for only 8X of total sales. Its agricultural machinery
business is the oldest and largest in Hungary, with 202 of total subsector
sales.  Since 1975, its main agricultural acehinery product has been the
large tractor, made in Gyor under a cooperative license from Steiger (US).
Other important products are planters, grain drills, disks, harrows and
plows.   These are all licensed from International Harvester (US).   Raba
also  produces  poultry  equipment  mainly  for  CMIA  sales.    Sales  of
agricultural machinery are evenly distributed between poultry equipment and
agricultural field machinery and combined employ some 3,100 peoplee
12.        Agricultural machinery production is mainly carried out in three
plants:     Gyor  (the  enterprise's  main  truck  and  engines  plant),
Mosonmagyarovar and Szentgotthard.   Tractors are produced in Gyor in a
modern well-equipped plent, using the components from the nearby truck
factories. The plant is sufficiently tooled for projected vGlumes through
1990. Components and some disk harrows are made in Szentgotthard, and most
implements are assembled in Mosounagyarovar. Tooling is reasonable for the
low production volumes involved but materials handling at both implement
factories is currently poor due to the multitude of old buildings.
13.        Raba exports a"ut 802 of its total production (652 direct, 15%
indirect through IKARUS, the bus manufactuier).  In contrast to its main
trucks, engines and components business, which is largely exported to both
CMEA and non-CMUA markets, sales of agricultural field machinery are
primarily on the domestic market.   Exports to non-CMIA markets, include
tractor axles to their US cooperator and some tractor sales to Spain.
Poultry equipment is largely exported to the USSR.



- 114 -                         'ANNEX 4-3
Page 5
Table 2
Raba - Sales of Agricultural Field Machinery, 1985
(US$ million)
Product                  Domestic    CNEA    Non-CMEA    Total    Z of Total
Tractors                    10.0      -          0.3       10.3       30.7
Primary Tillage Toole        9.5      -          0.4        9.9       29.6
Planters and Drills         13.3      _          -         13.3        39.7
Total                  30.8 _67                       33.5      100.0
Z of Total             97.9      -         2.1       100.0
rn                  -
14.       Raba now operates under the supervision of an enterprise council
in accordance with recent enterprise management system reform. Managemient
at Raba is currently- quite centralized, but effective.   It is organized
along functional lines with some functions or partial functions located at
the  individual  factories,  especially  in  the  case  of  agricultural
machinery.   Although the enterprise's decision making process is quite
heavy, Raba has a light structure in comparison to Hungarian enterprises of
similar-size. Plant activities are mostly specialized, and plant managers
report to the central production manager who in turn report to the
entbrprise's managing director.
15.        Given Rabats exposure to international competition in its main
activities, it has improved its technology, through licensing where
necessary, to achieve international levels. Raba's investments in licenses
for production of tractors (Steiger) and for tillage and planting equipment
(International Harvester) have been an adequate strategy in this respect.
Originally there was about a balanced buy-back with these cooperators, but
now the balance is distinctly in Raba's favor based on its exports of
components. However, the above strategy has led to very little independent
development of agricultural machinery by Raba.   It has no independent
manufacture  and  testing  of  prototypes.    They  have  good  field  test
capability, however, through an agreement with nearby production systems
farms.  Its domestic marketing activities, focused on production systems
farmers, is efficient.
16.           The overall financial situation of the enterprise is very
satisfactory.   Raba has consistently been profitable and thus able to
finance most of its ongoing investments from internal funds.   Profits
before tax have increased over the last years from 12 to 17% of sales.
The enterprise is expected to remain profitable in the future (main
financial indicators are shown in Attachment 1).



- 115 -                           ANNEX 4-3
Page 6
2. Szolnok Agricul.ural Machinery Enterprise (Szolnok)
17.         The Szolnok enterprise was formed in 1976 through a merger of
four agricultural machinery firms which started operations in the early
1950g. The enterprise was part of the Mezogep Trust until end-1984 and is
operated independently since January 1985. It specializes in agricultural
machinery production.   In addition, the enterprise is involved in barrel
production  and  servicing  of  buses  and  forklifts.         The  enterprise
headquarters  and  main  plant  are  located  in  Szolnok  (see Map).    The
production is scattered in some ten factories, five around Szolnok and five
located at 50-100 km from the headquarters. The enterprise also operates a
foundry, both for internal needs and outside sales, which has been
rehabilitated recently.   The enterprise has started to restructure its
operations by closing one factory, selling two, and trading another for
needed land.   They have dropped several product lines and services.  The
enterprise employs some 3,200 persons.
18.       Details of ente'rprise agricultural machinery sales in 1985 by its
main products and markets are shown in the following table.
Table 3
Szolnok - Sales of Agricultural Machinery, 1985
(IS$ million
Product                  Domestic    CMEA    Non-CMEA    Total    % of Total
Forage Harvester Headers    2.2        11.7      -          13.9        30.0
Straw Choppers               0.2        -        4.1         4.3         9.3
Large Round Balers           2.7        -        0           2.7         5.8
Rotary Mowers                2.7        -        0           2.7          5.8
Rotary Mower Frames          0          -        2.1         2.1         4.5
Flail Shredders              2.1        -        -           2.1         4.5
Combine Sieves               0.2        -        0.5         0.7         1.5
Subtotal               10.1      11.7       6.7       28.5         61.4
Other                       10.1            7.7             17.8        38.6
Total                  20.2           26.1             46.3       100.0
- ~~_ _ =,.
% of Total             43.6           56.4            100.0
19.        Szolnok's long-term contract for manufacturing of two models of
forage harvester headers for Fortschritt in GDR is distinctly larger than
any other export contract  for agricultural machinery in Hungary.   It
provides over tialf of all CMEA exports of field machines by the selected
agricultural  machinery  subsector  enterprises.    Szolnok's  second  most
important product is straw choppers which are primarily sold on Western
markets through Claas in FRG.  This is the highest value non-CMEA export
item in the subsector.



- 116 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 7
20.        Szolnok is a leader in marketing effort and results.  Sales in
the domestic market are mainly through the local distributor Agroker. CHEA
sales are based on the contract for forage harvester headers with
Fortschritt, which provides a solid base for volume production and
expansion in other markets.   A multiple approach is used for non-CMEA
markets.   Szolnok has elther direct contracts with original equipment
manufacturers such as in FRG for straw choppers, or through a wholesaler,
for sales in various West European markets.   Szolnok and three other
Hungarian manufacturers have recently formed a joint venture with a FRG
wholesaler for sale of their products in convertible currency uarkets.
21,         Szolnok's top three products, which amount to almost half of
sales, were designed by Fortschritt in GDR, Claas in FRG, and Hesston in
the USA respectively.   Szolnok has been able to redesign the Claas straw
chopper so that it may be fitted to the Fortschritt and some other
combines. In 1986 the enterprise started a product engineering department
to accelerate its own product development. Szolnok leads the agricultural
machinery industry in Hungary in the use of modern machine tools which
include 35 modern NC tools.  However, production organizatior is affected
by poor plant layout along with too many factories, businesses, and
products.
22.        Szolnok operates under the new enterprise management system and
is corrolled by an enterprise council.  Szolnok's centralized management
is  quite  effective  given  their  production  focus.    Its  functional
organization is desirable for an enterprise which is increasing its
specialization in agricultural machinery. The level of decentralization is
reasonable with maintenance, purchasing, and personnel primarily at the
factory level. A central computer is in use for production management, but
the enterprise will need to estihlish a management information system.
23.       Szolnok's financial situation is satisfactory with profit before
taxes averaging 10% on sale..   The enterprise has succeeded to achieve
improvements in sales and profits in a locally and internationally
depressed market.   Internally generated funds have financed most past
investments. Main financial indicators are shown in Attachment 1.
3. Oroshaza Agricultural Machinery Enterprise (Oroshaza)
24.         The Oroshaza enterprise was part of the Mezogep Trust until
end-1964 and now operates independently.   It is a small enterprise with
some 700 employees. However, it has the best focused product line of the
main subsector enterprises and operates in two nearby plants in
Mezokovacshazi and Oroshaza.  The Mezokovacshazi plant produces row units
which are completed into maize headers for combines at Oroshaza. Details
of sales by main markets are shown in the following table.



-117 -                          ANNEX 4-3
Page 8
Table 4
Oroshaza - Sales of Agricultural Machinery, 1985
(3US$ million)
Product                 Domestic    CHEA    Non-CMEA    Total    Z of Total
Combine Maize Readers      2.2       2.2       2.9        7.3         73.0
Combine Parts              1.3       0.4      -           1.7         17.0
Others                     0.7       -        0.3         1.0         10.0
Totals                4.2                3.2        10.0        100.0
_ --                            -             -_
% of Total          42.0       26.0     32.0       100.0
- _         m
25.        For about a decade, Oroshaza has had similar good markets for
their maize headers domestically, in 1he CMEA, and to Claas in RG. All
the sales are handled by the foreign trade enterprise Komplex.    The
enterprise is promoting further contracts with combine manufacturers
through enlargement of their product line with additional componentse
26.        Product development skills at Oroshaza are the best among the
"Hungarian agricultural machinery enterprises.   Steady progresa has been
made since the purchase of the first license from Claas in 1974. The sales
of their original redesigned maize header now approaches those of the
previous designs sold to Claas and on CMEA markets and a new design for the
US  market  is under preparation.    Products are well  tested,  and the
engineering staff also travels outside the country, to demonstrate their
performance products on the main export markets.
27.       The division of production between Mezokovacshaza and Oroshaza is
quite  effective.    At  Oroshaza,  construction  of  a  new  building  for
production and storage of purchased components has improved plant layout.
While parts of the Mesokovacshaza plant are quite efficient, materials
handling needs major improvement, as well as plant layout.
28.         Oroshaza has centralized management organized along functional
lines, which is considered quite suitable for a two factory enterprise with
a single dominant product. As a relatively new enterprise, spun off from
the Mezogep Trust without services and management tools, Oroshaza
management has initiated the establishment of a modern production system
and management information system. The overall financial situation of the
enterprise is satisfactory.  Its limited product line which dominates the
domestic market and its strong exports continue to be very profitable with
a return on sales before taxes in the range of 152.



- 118 -                         ANNEX 4-3
Page 9
Co Food Processing Machinery Subsector
1. ELGEP
29.       ELGEP was created in 1964 by the merger of four medium-sized food
processing machine manufacturing and maintenance enterprises, and a
plastics  processing  plant.    In the  late  1960s,  two new plants were
established at Szombathely and Budapest for dairy processing and milling
machinery  respectively.    The  enterprise  headquarters  are  located  in
Budapest and it currently operates seven plants in Budapest, Szombathely
(including a facility at Rormend), Paszto and Celldomolk (see Map), of
which one plastics processing plant; as well as a separate subsidiary for
engineering and erection activities for enterprise projects both in the
CMEA and convertible currency markets.   The enterprise also operates an
outdated foundry for internal needs and outside sales.   ELGEP currently
employs about 3,500 persons.
30.       ELGEP's sales amounted to about Ft 3.8 million (US$76 million) in
1985, of which 76% for food processing machinery and related components, 7%
for plastics processing, and the remaining 16% for other machines, foundry
parts and erection services.   Its sales included about Ft 1.3 billion
(US$25.5 million) of subcontracted parts and components, mostly for Western
exports  of  milling  lines.    ELGEP  is  the  largest  food  processing
manufacturer in Hungary and accounted for about 35% of the subsector
machinery  output in  1984.   The enterprise produces a broad range of
machinery amounting to nearly 500 products, including for milling and
fodder mixing (38% of turnover), cheese processing and dairy (27%), bakery
(5%), meat processing (5%), and packaging machinery (1%). The enterprise
also produces related tanks and silos, conveyor belt and elevator systems,
pumps and fittings.  Of its machinery sales, the majority is sold to the
CMEA markets (42%), particularly for dairy processing, bakery, and meat
processing. The domestic market accounts for 35% of sales, while non-CMEA
exports are about 23% of sales, mainly for milling equipment which are sold
to developing countries on a turnkey basis.
31.       During 1972-84, the enterprise fell under the supervision of the
Agricultural Machinery Trust which was  decentralized in  1984.   Since
December 1985, ELGEP operates under the supervision of an enterprise
council, which consists of 32 meAbers and which is responsible for overall
strategy and planning of the enterprise. ELGEP's organizational structure
is highly centralized with the headquarter organization and seven plants
reporting  directly  to  the  gedieral  manager.    ELGEP  has  started  to
decentralize management functions to make separate plants more independent,
which effort will be accelerated under the Project.   However, important
functions such as strategic planning and marketing are underdeveloped and
need  strengthening.    Further,  R&D  activities  are  centralized  with
insufficient links to operations, and the enterprise management information
systems  are  geared  toward  Government  information  needs,  rather  than
supporting enterprise management. Its cost accounting and control systems
need strengthening in this respect.



- 119 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 10
32.              The  overall  financial  situation  of  the  enterprise  is
satisfactory, with profits before tax increasing from 6% to 9% of revenues
between 1984-85. This is mostly due to good profitability on sales to CMEA
markets of 22% on average in 1985, while profitability on domestic sales
was 14% on sales.   Sales to Western markets, on the other hand, although
providing a positive gross margin (8% of sales), realized a slight net loss
(6% of sales).  The unsatisfactory financial performance on Western markets
highlights the need for production rationalization and cost reduction which
forms an important part of the focus of the restructuring efforts for the
enterprise leading to profitable exports.  A summary of the main indicators
of the enterpriea financial performance is shown in Attachment 1l
2.   Kecskemet Agricultural and Food Processing Machinery Enterprise
(Keeskemet)
33.       The Xecskemet enterprise was formed in 1968 with the merger of a
number of machine shops.   Gradually the enterprise was transformed from
maintenance  activities  to  industrial  operations  initially  for  the
automotive industry and agricultural machinery production, while its
activities expanded to food processing machinery in 1975.   During the
1970s, the enterprise developed foreign cooperation agreements with a
number of Western firms, including Claas, Hesston, Rau and Rabewerk and
improved its technological base through license agreements.   At present,
the enternrise is active in three major areas:   agricultural machinery
(soil' implements, crop storage and seeders), food processing machinery
(canning machinery), and other products (cabins for combine harvesters,
wire mesh and fans).   Its headquarters is located in Kecskemet, and it
operates six plants in Kecskemet, Kiskoros, Kiskumojsu, Solt, Tiszakecsk_.
and a subsidiary in kerekegyhaza (see Map). The enterprise also operates a
separate general contracting office for canning machinery and crop storage
projects, as well as a joint foreign trade office with Komplex.   The
enterprise employs about 3,000 persons.
34.               Kecskemet's  sales  amounted  to  about  Ft  2.4  billion
(US$48 million) in 1985, of which agricultural machinery accounted for 38%,
including crop storage (21%), and soil implements (17%); canning machinery
for 29%; cabins for 5%; and other activities for 28%.  The enterprise is
largely export oriented.   Of its agricultural machinery, a major share
(47%) is sold on convertible currency markets, particularly grain storage
systems which are sold to developing countries on a turnkey basis, and to a
smaller degree soil implements.   Cabins for combine harvesters are fully
exported under agreement with Claas (FR','. For canning machinery, exports
are largely to the CMEA markets, whicb represented 89% of canning sales in
1985, largely for complete canning lines on a turnkey basis.
35.          During 1972-84, the enterprise was part of the Agricultural
Machinery Trust.   Currently,  it is independent and operates under the
supervision of an enterprise council which was established in February
1986. The enterprise organization structure is highly centralized with the
headquarters organization and six plants reporting directly to the general
manager.    Also  management  functions  are  largely  centralized  in  the



- 120 -                           ANNEX 4-3
Page 11
headquarter  organization,  while  important  functions  such as strategic
planning and marketing need strengthening. The enterprise has initiated a
concept of product managers f or main product groups which will be further
developed under the project. R&D is centralized and has insufficient links
to operations while its output of new product development is limiteJ. The
enterprise management information systems are largely production oriented,
with emphasis on statistical data for Government use. The cost accounting
and control systems do not provide adequate information on costs and
profitability of various activities.
36.        The financial situation of the enterprise is satisfactory with
profitability before tax of about  10% of revenues in  1985.   Overall
profitability for agricultural and food processing machines, both on
domestic and export markets ranges from 7-32X, although for storage
equipment profitability on non-CMEA markets is relatively low (32 of sales)
which is expected to be improved under the Project.   Some of the other
activities of the enterprise, on the other hand, including its wire mesh
production, incurred losses and their continued operation will be studied
under the Project.  The financial situation of the enterprise for 1983-85
is summarized in Attvchment 1.
Industry Department
May 1987



- 121 -
AN! 4-5
Attaclunmt I
HUR -- S          mD PRO=
MM=  ON SL1 5(1M' K4IN  aEPR1
S!umr of Historical Financia Performance of Mein MtE!!wse
Profit                   term
Over Sales       Ig-   Debt
Profit        Profit      term   Service
Profit After Profit After  Qr- Dsbt/  Cover-
Total      t     4 Before Profit Before Profit rent    ity  ae
Eititie             Assets  ReUm    Tax    Tax    Ta    Tax  Ratio Ratio  Ratio
-  a m  fo0lts )          - (     )     F (t    )   -ts
Rubber  P2gf:
Taurus      1983  7,964.5  12,133.0  1,285.6  654.6  10.6  5.4   2.7  11/89    2.7
-        ~-     1984  8,091.5  13,084.8  1,307.4  587.4  10.0  4.5   2.1   6/94    2.1
1985  8,730.2  14,034.2  1,446.8  735.7  10.3  5.2   2.2   6/94    2.2
alorlss=7r4 1983    296.1     354.2     74.1   34.3  20.9  9.7   3.8  13/87    3.5
1984    278.2     391.5      69.8   36.6  17.8  9.3   5.3  11/89    4.5
1985    285.1     387.7      57.0   32.8  14.7  8.5   5.1   7/93    3.2
Paba        1983 19,295.6  20,030.8  2,391.9 1,079.3  11.9  5.4   3.5   8/92    1.3
1984 19,240.6  21,496.5  3,307.9 1,856.6  15.4  8.6   4.6   6/94    2.8
1985 19,870.8  23,603.3  4,009.0 1,994.0  17.0  8.4   6.3   5/95    4.2
Szolibk     1983  1,922.7   2,542.2    228.5   73.4   9.0  2.9   2.2  12/88    1.7
1984  2,108.2   29629.7    251.3  166.2   9.6  6.3   2.6  15/85    2.5
1985  2,061.7   2,684.9    278.7  144.2  10.4  5.4   403  14/86    2.3
Orosdah    1983       -          -        -      -      -    -      -      -       -
1984    296.0     517.3     50.1   23.2   9.7  4.5   3.0   -           -
1985    266.4     538.8      79.0   41.9  14.7  7.8   6.2   2/98    8.8
Food Ir2Mft
M18ep       1983  1,993.8   29770.9    203.0   38.4   7.3  1.4   1.9  17/83    2.7
1984  2,061.1   3,293.4    207.9   91.5   6.3  2.8   2.0  14/86   14.6
1985  2,427.1   3,774.7    339.8  164.6   9.0  4.4   3.2  30/70   21.3
ecskmemt   1983  1,557.0   29345.4    301.4  107.1  12.9  4.6   2.1  19/81    2.3
1984  1,650.7   2,339.0    294.3  129.2  12.6  5.6   2.0  17/83    1.8
1985  2,017.3   2,444.3    266.6  130.0  10.9  5.4   1.9  21/79    1.5
Lh2usty Drbmn
may 19B7



-122 -                          ANNEX 5-1
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Feeder Industries Study
A. Background
1.         Experience of advanced countries shows that the development of
feeder   industries   specializing  in  the  manufacture   of  components
intermediate  products,  and  sub-assemblies  contributes  to  increased
efficiency and competitiveness of the industrial sector as a whole. Feeder
industries, which tend to be smaller than vertically integrated plants, are
less capital intensive, and demand less physical infrastructure. There is
also considerable evidence that smaller specialized units result in greater
capital saving, in comparison to their higher consumption of labor and
other inputs, thus bringing about a net saving in total factor consumption
and increased economic efficiency.
2.            Product groups of the feeder industry include, but are not
limited to, the following: (i) parts and components (e.g., fittings, bolts
and nuts, joints, springs, electrical and electronical connections, etc.);
(i1)   sub-assemblies   (e.g.,   pneumatic   and   hydraulic   cylinders,
transformers,   gear.R boxes,  etc.);   (iii)  tools  and  fixtures;   and
(iv)   auxiliary   material   supplies   (e.g.,   tubes   and   adhesives).
Manufacturing of such product groups in specialized companies contributes
to the increased efficiency of the user unit processing the next stage of
manufacturing, resulting in higher value final product, and increased
competitiveness and exportability of the final products.
3.           There has been a strong vertical integration of production
enterprises in Hungarian industry.   The industrial enterprises have not
built up a strong and widespread network of feeder industries as they
preferred to manufacture their components themselvas. This resulted in the
development of component manufacturers lagging behind and reinforced in
turn the tendency of the final product manufacturers to set up component
manufacture capacity of their core business as regards its technology and
international competitiveness.  In order to correct the situation, in the
context of the restructuring of Hungarian industrial sector, the Hungarian
authorities have decided to launch a program to develop a network of
specialized feeder industries.   The specific objectives of the program
include improving the efficiency of industrial manufacturing, reduction of
cQsts, reduction of the lead time for introduction of new products, and
^velopment of a more flexible industrial structure, thus leading to
iiproved interaational competitiveness and increased export.
B. Obiectives of the Study
4.          The objectives of the study are to:  (i) review the present
situation of Hungarian feeder industries; (ii) identify constraints to
their development; (iii) identify, drawing on international experience,
measures to remove the identified constraints; (iv) identify priority areas
for the development of feeder industries in Hungary; (v) develop a strategy



- 123 -                         ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
and action plan for the development of the feeder industry and related
infrastructure facilities; and (vii) investigate, based on international
experience, what kind of economic environment and incentives are needed to
encourage and stimulate the establishment and growth of small and medium
sized companies of the feeder industry and their sales to manufacturers of
finished products.
C. Scope and Coverage
5.           Within these general objectives, the study should cover the
specific topics elaborated below.   (This is not a desk study:  extensive
interviews and visits to supplier enterprises, as well as those using, or
intending to use bought-out components should be carried out and recorded
to substantiate the recommendations.)
(a) Present Status of Development
-    Major product groups  (including, but not limited to, product
groups given in para 1.2).
-    List of major producers and users of components, product lines,
volumes of production, etc.
i   Import  and export  volumes,  value  added  and  other  important
indices to describe the size and importance of feeder industries
in Hungary.
-    input/output, matrix of component/user industries to explain the
interrelationships between users and suppliers of product groups.
-    Comparison of the state of feeder industries in Hungary with that
in other selected industrialized countries.
(b)  Constraints on Development
The following listing is only illustrative, and the Consultant
should not restrict his analysis to the listing.   He should
identify and analyse all major constraints.
(i) Policy Environment
-    The impact of the present planning and resource allocation
process on the development of feeder industries, including
the impact of the system of pricing and taxation on the
"make-or-buy" decisions of the enterprises.
(ii) Technological Constraints
-    Availability of foreign product and production technology
including external constraints of technology transfer.



-124 -                          ANNEX 5-1
Page 3
Existence and availability of product standards.
kvailability of testing and quality control facilities.
(ili)  Materials Availability
Availability and constraints in the procurement of imported
raw materials.
Access to off-the-shelf purchases of small quantities of
imported and domestic materials and parts.
Other material availability factors such as terms offered by
major domestic producers of raw materials.
Constraints on the side of both manufacturers and  .sers on
inventory holding of products of feeder industries.
(iv)  Finance and Trade Credtlt
Availability and institutional arrangements for investment
finance for smaller feeder industries.
Terms of trade credit available to feeder industries.
(v) Marketing Constraints
Necessity of a subcontracting exchange.
Arrangements for order pooling to obtain scarce materials at
competitive price..
Arrangements for division of large orders anong several
feeder industry units,
Availability of market information on prospective orders.
Organisation of regular symposia or ex?ositioaas by users of
products.
(vi) Manpower and Technical Assistance
Requirements of feeder industries in respect of skilled
workers.
Training and technical assistance requirements of workers
and managements of feeder industries.



- 125 -                         ANNEX 5-1
Page 4
(c) Measures for Development of Feeder Industries
6.          The study should bring out recommendations affecting both the
supply and demand sides of feeder industry development, and which would be
appropriate in the Hungarian environment .  These measures will have to be
essentially the converse of the constraints outlined above. Here follows
an indicative listing of possible measures to be investigated.
(i) Supply Side Measures
-  . Appropriateness  of  regulations  on  specialized  feeder
industries to encourage their growth and development.
-    Incentives to encourage large vertically integrated units to
spin-off component manufacturing facilities into separate
feeder units.
=    Setting up a program for technology transfer from large
units to smaller units.
-    Measures leading to the establishment of subcontracting and
cooperation.
-    Mechanism  for  bulk  ordering  of  materials  for  feeder
industries.
-    Establishment  of  specialized  credit  windows  for  feeder
industries to meet investment resources needs.
-    Development of credit facilities to improve access to trade
credits of the small and medium size company of the feeder
industries.
-    Arrangements for obtaining licenses, knowhow and technical
cooperation, with foreign units.
(ii) Demand Side Measures
-    Appropriateness of regulations to encourage the users to
purchase.
-    Development of incentives for encouraging the purchase of
components from feeder industries as compared with internal
manufacture of the components.
-    Arrangements   for   publicizing   prospective   orders   of
components and materials by large enterprises.
-    Appropriateness  of  import   tariffs  on  components  to
discourage   vertically   integrated   units   from   their
manufacture.
i1



- 126 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 5
Reservation  of  certain  components   or  materials  for
manufacture by specialized feeder industries, in cases where
such reservation is justified on economic grounds.
(d) Priority Areas for Development of Feeder Industries
7.         The Consultant shall recommend priority areas for development of
the feeder  industries.   Based on analysis of domestic needs,  export
potential and comparative advantage of (potential) Hungarian feeder
industries, the Consultant should identify which product groups and
industries should be promoted in the near and medium-term, and what
infrastructural facilities would be required on a priority basis including
an estimate of overall investment needs in the medium-term.
(e) Recommendations and Action Plan
8.         The study should result in strategy for the short- and long-term
development of feeder industries as well as specific steps to be taken in
order to ensure the efficiency and competitive growth of the feeder
industry in Hungary. The time span of the program can be divided into two
periods, the first being the period of the seventh five-year plan up to
1990, while the second is the period after 1990. The steps to be taken in
the next three years should be presented in detailed and monitorable
actions.
D. Time Schedule and Reporting
9.          It is expected that the study can be completed in six months.
Progress reports and interim presentations are expected after one month and
four months from the start of work, respectively. The presentation of the
final report is expected six months after start of the work.
Industry Department
May 1987



-127 -                          ANNEX 5-2
Page I
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Details on Support for the Banking System
A. Introduction
1.         The Project would provide support to the banking system in two
areas: (i) support for development of the computer facilities, which will
enable the separation of the accounting of the three commercial banks from
the accounts of NBH as the bank of issue, as well as meet other data
processing needs of NBH, the Foreign Trade Bank, the National Savings Bank,
and the General Banking and Trust Company; and (ii) provision of technical
assistance to the new commercial banks, to strengthen their operational
capabilities. These two subcomponents of the Project are described below.
B. Support for Development of Computing Facilities
1. Description of Present Facilities
2.        The computing network at present available in NBH is built around
two mainframe computers which are now being upgraded.   In addition there
are five minicomputers with 60 work stations in the Cash Department of
NBH.  The minicomputers communicate with the main frames through magnetic
tape.   None of the work stations is interactive:   all data retrievel is
by printout.  The previous 82 branches of NBH are equipped with obsolete
accounting machines, which can communicate with NBH main frames only by
transmission of punched paper tape. The two mainframes, and the
minicomputers are served with software which is adequate for present
needs.   The Computing Services Department has a total of 200 hardware
specialists, software specialists, and system analysts which is being
expanded to 210 in  1987.   The computing center  provides  information
resources management services to NBH in respect of all its activities. The
services are:   data processing, statistical work, management information
for issue activities, as well as accounting and credit activities.
2.  Concept for Developent of Computing Services
'I
3.         The overall concept for the development of computing services to
meet the needs of NBH and the banking community in Hungary has been
formulated taking into account the creation of the two-tier banking system
in Hungary. Under the new system, NBH is the only bank of issue and credit
activities are cartied out by the newly established commercial banks. The
previous branch offices of NBH have been taken over by the commercial banks
except for the 18 county headquarters offices, which will remain with NBH.
The commercial banks will set up their own branches, some in the buildings
housing the NBH offices at present.  It will be necessary to separate the
accounting and credit information management services, which will be needed
only by the commercial banks, from the macro-economic and other data
requirements of NBH, as the bank of issue.



-128 -                          ANNEX 5-2
Page 2
4.        While the development of the commercial banks will determine to a
great extent the future system requirements for computing services, the
following three-stage development plan has Leen formulated, which allows
sufficient flexibility to meet future needs of the commercial banks.   In
designing the development plan, an Important limitation has to be kept in
view:   in the immediate future,  there is no prospect of an upgraded
telecommunications network in Hungary which would permit data transmission
over telephone lines on an online basis. Data will have to be transmitted
by transfer of magnetic tapes or diskettes from the branches to Budapest.
3. Development Plan
5.         In the first stage of development, the computing activity of NBH
will b# transformed into a service activity, meeting the needs of NBH, and
servicing the commercial banks at the same time.   In this phase, the
existing computer center will provide all the accounting services, and will
sell time to the commercial banks to meet their needs.   The commercial
banks will therefore be able to supply statutory information to NBH quite
easily, as the same computer center will serve both NBH and the commercial
banks.
6.         In the second stage of development, a separation of facilities
servicing NBH and the commercial banks will be realized,  NBH, will be
equipped to allow this separation, with a local area network (LAN) at the
head office.  At the same time, the 18 county offices of NBH, which are
located at the larger towns in the country with a higher level of activity,
will be equipped with microcomputers serving four or six work stations
each. This will enable transmission by diskettes of data from the various
offices to Nsa headquarters.
7e         In the third, and for the present, final stage of development,
the cpmputer center serving the commrcial banks will function as an
independeap clearing center exclusively, which will allow the commercial
banks to maintain their accounts in facilities completely independent of
NBH. At this stage, NBH will need to acquire a separate mainframe computer
to meet its requirements as a bank of issue and the country's central bank.
4. Phasing of the Development Plan
8.        The implementation of the development plan has been initiated in
1986 and will be completed by 1989. The development plan is divided into
six phases as described below:
(a)  Phase 1-A.  In this phase, minicomputers will be installed at
each of the 18 county offices of NBH and data will be transferred
to NBH headq'sarters by diskettes. The cost of the minicomputers
is being borne by NBH.  At NIH headquarters, the existing two
mainframes will serve the needs of NBH as well as of the
commercial banks.  The commercial banks will be provided with
most of the 60 work stations which present meet the needs of
NBH'e Cash Department, to enable them to enter data into the two



-129-                           ANNEX 5-2
Page 3
mainframes in Budapest.   The related investment costs of the
commercial banks from January 1, 1987, will be borne by NBH from
its own resources.
(b)  Phase 1-B.   In this phase, all the branches at the remaining
locations will be equipped with microcomputers to enable them to
transmit data to NBH in Budapest by diskette.   It is foreseen
that the commercial banks will also replace a part of the
obsolete accounting machines at the branches. Such replacement
will be financed from the first industrial restructuring project.
(c)  Phase 2-A.   During this phase, NBH will install a Local Area
Network (LAN) with 100 work stations in its headquarters, for its
activities as bank of issue,   The foreign cost of the LAN is
being financed by the first industrial restructuring project.
(d)  Phase 2-B.    In this phase,  the facilities of a number of
Hungarian banks including NBH, will be upgraded to allow access
to the international SWIFT II network. The SWIFT system, which
facilitates international money transactions, is changing over to
SWIFT II. and the banks in Hungary which are subscribers to SWIFT
will be equiped with t?rminals to allow the transition.  A SWIFT
coordination group has been established under NBH chairmanship.
The Project would finance the acquisition of new ST 200 terminals
by NBH, the Foreign Trade Bank, the National Savings Bank, and
the General Banking and Trust Company.
(e)  Phase 3-A.   In this phase, NBH will acquire a new mainframe
computer capable  of handling  1-2 MIPS  along with necessary
software to release the existing mainframes to the clearing
house.   This is essential to enable the commercial banks to
acquire independent accounting capability, and to meet their
needs for information management.   The Project would meet the
cost of this new mainframe computer.
(f)  Phase 3-B.   The final phase of the present development plan
provides for connecting the minicomputers at the county offices
online to the mainframes at Budapest. For the time being there
is no possibility of connecting all the commercial banks' branch
offices online to Budapest due to the lack of adequate
telecommnications facilities.
5. Technical Assistance. Training and Implementation
9.         Apart from the technical assistance for the design of the LAN at
NBH headquarters which is financed under the first industrial restructuring
project, hardware suppliers will be asked to provide training assistance to
a nucleus of NBH staff to operate the system. A similar arrangement will
be made at each new hardware acquisition proposed in the development plan.
No other technical assistance is likely to be needed*



ANNEX 5-2
-130-                            Page 4
6. Cost Estimate
10.        The estimate of foreign costs for the above development plan is
as follows:
Cost Estimate for Develogment of Computing Facilities
US$ Milion
Phs 1-A
Iistallatii  of 18t W costy offim                         Already incurred
Ptovision of nEsWa to cownre1al boft at DAVest             Already incrred
Phs 1-B
i lteion of --.. 11  r  '  MIat brahso  owWbA
1.2
hse 2-A
stallation of loal Ama NMatrk (AN) at MR hed office with
IO iork statios,  idi% pwndme of neoessary softwe             1.6
cdhicof al  stawa.for dsign of AN                                0.1
The 2-B
P&wrse ad Installation of ST 200 terinias for dbgaerw to
SWIFT II, inwtiuxzg purcim  of nexssy sotme                    0.6 a/
.ae 3-A
huxbose and insalation at NEH of  dafora   oxqutr with
capeity of 1-2 MEPS, alwg with naossay aofdtze                 2.4 a/
Phase 3-B
nstalaion of telemlines bl            b        the Comty
offics and  umIit   c       ftr fo onlna daf tra-dsm            N.AL
Total                                                      5.9
a/ lb be finaxdc udr the Project.
C. Technical Assistance for Commercial Banks
1. Background
11.        The Project would support mainly the techn.cal assistance needs
of the three major commercial banks banks (para !6) which will be the
initial  intermediaries  for  onlending  of  Bank  funds.    To  enable  the
development of more onlending cbhanels for delivery of Bank funds to the
industrial restructuring program the Project also includes a component to
meet the immediate technical assistance needs of other banks. An outline
of the program which was prepared jointly with the banks is given below.



- 131 -                         ANNEX 5-2
Page 5
2. Technical Assistance Needs
12.           The technical assistance needs of the new banks has been
determined keeping their likely development in view, which will be guided
by the following principles of the banking system reform:  (i) the banks
will not be exclusively linked tt any sector or territory; (ii) enterprises
and other economic entities will be free to choose their banks; (iii) the
banks will be free to deal with enterprises in any sector, and offer the
full  range of banking  servicep to  the enterprises,  including working
capital finance, investment finance and export finance.   Given the above
principles, the three new banks will need to become full-service commercial
banks, though confined to the enterprise sector. They will therefore need
technical assistance for the full range of banking activities. The Project
would support the technical assistance needs of new banks during 1987-88 in
the following areas:
(a) Staff Training
(i)  Organization and Management.  The organization structure of
the constituent units of the new banks is very likely to be
appropriate  to the functioning of a modern bank.   The
assistance of an organization and management expert in the
banking sector is foreseen in this respect.  Also, at this
stage it is critically important that the new banks start
off with a modern outlook, which includes the setting up of
written policies and procedures for various operations of
the bank.   These policies have to be within an overall
policy framework which should be laid out in a policy
statement, backed up by a medium-term strategy or plan,
which should include quantified targets where possible. The
new banks would be provided access to expertise in this
area.  There will be a provision for visits by the senior
officers of the new banks to banking institutes in other
countries.
(ii)  Commercial  Banking  Operations.      Firstly,  training  and
technical assistance will be needed in the areas of credit
risk  analysis,  assessment  of  working  capital  needs,
assessment of repayment capacity, asset and liability
management, matching of resource and loan maturities,
portfolio management and banking operational procedures. As
the banks get involved in provision of post-shipment credit
to exporters, assessment of country risk will also have to
be strengthened.   Secondly, when the banks begin to deal
with individual depositors, a whole new era of deposit
mobilization, depositor services, product development, etc.,
will open up.   For the present, only the 'irst group of
needs will be taken into account. There are well developed
course   packages   in   all   these   specific   subjects.
Arrangements for the banks' staff to be put through a series
of training courses for trainers at a suitable institution
would be funded by the Project, after which the training
process can be continued in-house by the banks.



-132 -                          ANNEX 5-2
Page 6
(iii)  Investment Project -ppraisal and Supervision.   Under the
proposed Project, assistance will be provided to the new
banks to bring their project appraisal and supervision
activities to acceptable levels.  The staff of the General
Credit Section of NBH which deals with industrial credits
has received considerable training and technical support in
this respect under the Bank-supported Industrial Exports
Project (Loan No. 2397-HU) and this support should continue
for the commercial banks.   An Operations Manual has been
prepared by NBH, as agreed under the Export Industries
Project.     This  Manual  has  considerably  upgraded  and
systematized both project appraisal and supervision.   An
area of weakness is the technical appraisal of projects and
market analysis.  It is proposed to continue the extensive
use of domestic consultants, as at present.
(b) Training of Trainers. As the number of staff requiring training
is very large, it would be necessary for the banks to set up an
in-house training capacity. A program of training for trainers
will therefore be funded, under which six trainers from each bank
will be trained at specialized institutions abroad.
(c)  Management Information Systems and New Technolog.   The banks
would require assistance  in purchasing  computers,  accounting
equipment, telecommunications facilities, etc.  It is essential
that this be done within a long-term framework to avoid ad hoc
purchases, duplication and waste due to incompatibility of
systems. At the same time their needs for an independent credit
and  accounting  information  system  must  be met.   Under the
proposed Project, assistance for concept development and systera
design is proposed to be provided to the banks.
(d)  Feasibility Studies.   Assistance will also be provided to the
banking system as a whole by funding (i) a feasibility study
under agreed TORs for the establishment of a bank staff training
school and (ii) a feasibility study for a joint venture for
provision of audit services to the banking system.
3. Cost Estimate
14.            A cost estimate for the technical assistance program is
summarized below:



- 133 -                         ANNEX 5-2
Page 7
Foreign      Local
Purpose of Technical Assistance                           Costs       Costs
(USIT000)   (HF '0006
Three Major Banks:
Management & Organization:
Technical Assistance                                    141         360
Study Tours                                              43         108
Project Appraisal & Banking Operations
Technical Assistance                                    186         720
Attendance of Courses                                    57         216
Training of Trainers:
Attendance at Courses                                    38          72
MIS and Technology Needs:
Technical Assistance                                    141       1,080
Study Tours                                              13         720
Peasibility Studies:
Banking School                                           45         450
Audit Institution                                        45         450
Other Banks:
Management, Organization & Strategic Planning              66         240
Total                                                  832       4,344
Contingencies                                               144         401
Total Including Contingencies                          976       4,705
in US$ thousand                                             976          94
ENQayID7
May 1987



- 134 -                           ANNEX 5-3
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Details on Restructuring Programs of Main Entergrises
A. Rubber Processing Subsector
1. Taurus Rubber Works (Taurus)
1.            Product/Market Strateg.   With the objective of achieving
reasonable profitability in all its markets and for all its products by
1990 and to increase its non-CMEA exports, Taurus will concentrate its
activities  on:    (i) large company products - steel radial truck and
agricultural tires; air springs; hydraulic, rotary, and special hoses;
conveyor and v-belts; rubber sheeting; and replacement articles for camping
goods; (ii) small company products involving precision and high technology;
and (iii) rubber related background activities - rubber processing machines
and molds; and retreading and reprocessing operations.   For the above
products, it will acquire new technologies (steel radial truck tires,
hydraulic hoses and v-belts); conduct market studies prior to capacity
expansion to ensure markets (hydraulic and special hoses, air springs,
rubber sheets, precision technical rubber goods, and replacement products);
adjust its product-mix and range to suit market needs (radial tires,
conveyor belts); reduce its material usage (agricultural radial tires and
mixing operations); and upgrade its current equipment through restructuring
measures in order to increase productivity, improve quality and reduce
material  consumption.    In  parallel  with  the  implementation  of  its
restructuring project, Taurus will pnase out by 1991 uneconomical products
- croesply tires, tubes, air mattresses and beds and technical rubber goods
with low technology (such as uncured rubber, simple injection molded parts,
sheets and compress molded products), and electrical control systems.
2.             Organization and Systems Strategy.   To support the above
product/market strategy, Taurus will:   (i) develop and implement a new
organization structure through grouping of its products in four divisions
(tire, heavy technical goods, light technical goods, and machine-building
divisions).   Each division, supported by common corporate functions, will
be self contained in major functions - product/market strategic planning,
product development, production, financial accounting and personnel - and
will operate as profit center on the basis o, performance of different
products groups within each division; (ii) develop and implement a
production  rationalization  program,   including  plants'  layouts,  for
consolidation of products at one site requiring similar manufacturing
technologies and techniques; (iii) streamline and strengthen the existing
computerized management information system in order to support the major
functional areas of strategic planning, marketing, financial planning and
control, quality control; (iv) implement the management development and
training program in major functional areas, foreign languages, and
specialized technology processes; (v) undertake marketing studies through
the use of foreign consultants in six product groups (para 1);
(vi) establish and introduce a corporate quality control system with the
assistance of foreign consultants; and (vii) undertake a study of its
indirect personnel with the objective of reducing its personnel by about
15%.



- 135 -                          ANNEX 5-3
Page 2
v.           Software Measures.  The software measures indicated in para 2
above, including the hardware requirements for these measures will be
supported under the Project.  Their cost estimate, of which the Bank loan
will finance the foreign costs, is as follows:
Table 1
Taurus: Cost Estimate of Software Measures
Million Forint          US$ Million
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Market Research/Studies            7.0   18.0   25.0   0.15   0.40   0.55
Management and Tech. Training     16.0    9.0   25.0   0.36   0.20   0.56
Quality Control incl. Consultancy  16.0   35.0   51.0   0.36   0.78   1.13
Research and Development          17.0   31.5   48.5   0.38   0.70   1.08
Management Systems                40.0   94.5  134.5   0.89   2.10   2.99
Subtotal                     96.0  188.0  284.0   2.14   4.18   6.32
Contingencies                     27.0   25.0   52.0   0.60   0.56   1.16
Total                       123.0  213.0  336.0   2.74   4.74   7.48
4.            Impact of Restructuring Program.   The restructuring program
outlined above, including the restructuring investment to implement the
program, would result in a significant impyrovement in Taurus' products,
markets and organization enhancing its international competitiveness,
thereby facilitating expanded exports to convertible currency markets,
which is the main objective of both Taurus and the Hungarian Government.
There would be an overall increase in productivity of about 30% by 1990.
This would not only allow Taurus to maintain its export growth to non-CHEA
countries at about 8% per -year (constant prices) but also increase its
non-CMEA share of its products sales to over 30% by 1990 from its present
level of 26% and its overall profitability from 10% in .1985 to 15% by 1990.
2. Kaloplasztik
5e               Product/Market  Strategy.    Kaloplasztik will  focus  its
product/market strategy on three areas - (i) mixing of compounds;
(ii) extrusion of profiles; and (iii) molding of a diversified range of
machine rubber goods - in order to serve as a feeder industry with the
prime objective of gaining a higher share in the domestic market at the
current level of profitability and to gain exports to non-CMEA countries.
6.         Or ani ation and Systems Strategy.  Initially Kaloplasztik will
establish two ind endent production functions for its rubber and plastics
processing facilities with centralized functional support to these two
operations, which shall provide the basis for the establishment of two
profit centers with decentralized functions as the two business grow in the
future. It will establish a concept of strategic planning and management
information system including a training program for managers covering
strategic planning, marketing and financial management which will be
implemented under the Project.   Also, it will establish and implement an
action plan to reduce overheads, energy consumption, maintenance cost, and
material waste and rejection, with the objective to reduce by at least 20%.



- 136 -                         ANUMX 5-3
Page 3
7,         Software Measures.  The program of software investments proposed
under the Project would address the organization and system strategy
described above as well as enhance the quality of raw materials and goods
through strengthening its quality control system and mold-repairing
facility.   The cost estimate,  the foreign exchange of which would be
supported by the Bank loan, is as follows:
Table 2
Kaloplasatik: Cost Estimate of Software Measures
Forint Million               US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
Management Training         0.5      0.9       1.4     0.01     0.02    0.03
Quality Control             -        2.6       2.6     -        0.06    0.06
Management Systems          0.5      0.9       1.4     0.01     0.02    0.03
Mold-Facility               3.0      4.3       7.3     0.07     0.09    0.16
Subtotal              4.0       8.7     12.7      0.09     0.19    0.28
Contingencies               1.1      1.2      2.3      0.02     0.03    0.05
Total                  5.1      9e9     15.0      0.11     0.22    0.33
8.            Impact of Restructuring Program.   The major impact of the
restructuring program will be the development of an understanding by the
management of a small company like Kaloplasztik, of the determinants of
competitive success in a business. The program will enable Kaloplasztik to
reduce its costs by about 20%, achieve a higher than average subsector's
growth of 5% per year by 1990, expand its domestic market, and export about
5% of its production to convertible currency markets.
B. Agricultural Machinery Subsector
1. Raba
9.            Product/Market Strateg.   With the objective of achileving
improved profitability in 1990 in all its products and markets and to
increase its non-CMEA exports, Raba will base its medium/lonp-term strategy
for agricultural machinery on four lines of products:   tractors, soil
implements, poultry equipment, and components.   In particular,  it will
(M) concentrate in heavy tractors (power superior to 200 UP) without.
additional investments and expand sales in selected non-CMKA markets
requiring such heavy tractors (China), as well as abandon small tractors
production; (ii) maintain market share in established poultry equipment
markets (CMEA) and expand in selected areas (Middle East, China);
(iii) diversify its existing soil implement range adequate for heavy
tractors to light products, both to satisfy domestic demand (import
substitution for implements designed for tractors from 60 to 100 UP), and
to expand exports in Western European markets, within the current product
designs.    In  diversifying  its  production,  the  enterprise  will  avoid
overlapping products, abandon low volume models of products and increase
standardization; and (iv) initiate expand components production on a large
scale so as to meet domestic demand and penetrate export markets (in



- 137 -                           ANNEX 5-3
Page 4
particular working elements for implements such as plowshares, moldboards,
disk leaves, etc.).
10.        Production Rationalization.   The rationalization of production
will be realized by building a new plant in Szentgotthard and specializing
each site:   Mosonmagyarovar for poultry equipment and Szentgotthard for
soil implements and components*  The small old shops will be phased out,
and all production will be rationalized by end of 1988.
11.       Organization and Systems Strategy.  Raba has decided to gradually
transform its organization into a divisional organization structure.  The
agricultural machinery majufacturing division will be formed as a first
step with full authority to decide on the various aspects of the business.
Upon review of experience, the divisional structure will be expanded to all
other  activities:    undercarriages,  engines,  trucks,  etc.,  including
castings, parts and components for which a study is under way to evaluate
the most appropriate structure. The divisions will be supported by common
corporate functions. In parallel with the setting up of the new divisional
organization, Raba is planning to develop its management information
system, to implement a computerized production control system, to develop a
new accounting system, to continue to reduce overheads, to improve quality
control, and to foster independent research and development.
12.         Software Measures.  The measures described in para 11 above,
including the hardware requirements will be supported under the Project,
for which a cost estimate is shown in the following table.   Raba will
finance the local part from its own resources and the Bank loan will
finance the foreign cost.
Table 3
Raba:. Cost Estimate of Software Measures
Ft Million     US$ Million
(Foreign)       (Foreign)
Training                    2.2             0.05
Quality Control             8.6             0.19
Management System           8.6a/           O.19a/
Subtotal              19.4             0.43
Contingencies               2.6             0.06
Total                 22.0             0.49
s/ Agricultural machinery division, part of
the global enterprise system.
13.          Impact of RestructurinA Program.   The restructuring program
outlined above would result in a 8significant improvement of Raba's
agricultural machinery production, markets and organization.   This will
allow Raba to enhance its International  competitiveness.    Raba which
already leads the industry in sales value per employee, intends to double
its production of implements between 1985 and 1990 without An 1nEr^flfb 4-



138                   ~~~~~~ANNEX 5-3
Page 5
total employment.   Raba will broaden its product lines within existing
product families.   This strategy will enable Raba to almost double its
sales of agricultural implements on the domestic market and to penetrate
non-CMEA exports, to increase sales in this area from Ft 33 million in 1985
to Ft 113 million in 1990 (1985 prices)o Furthermore, Raba will enter the
component business for which sales are expected to reach Ft 680 million in
1980, and of which 80% is intended for external sales (70X on domestic
market and 10% on non-CMEA export).
2. Szolnok Agricultural MachinerZ Enterprise (Szolnok)
14.         Product/Market Strategy,   The main strategy of Szolnok is to
further  concentrate  its  activities  on  agricultural  machinery.    The
enterprise will stop its barrel production, and eliminate the service
activities of motor rewinding and pump repair. Bus repair and overhauling
of forklifts will be separated from the main business.   The important
domestic and CMEA markets are to be maintained and more effort will be
placed on non-CMEA markets, especially for combine straw choppers and
combine sieves.
15.          Production Rationalization.   Szolnok which has the greatest
number of factory locations and factory buildings among the main
agricultural machinery enterprises, will undertake a cost-benefit study to
determine the merits of concentration of the production facilities and the
closure of some of its smaller factories.
16.         Organization and System Strategy.  With its primary focus on
harvesting machinery, Szolnok plans to keep its functional form of
organization while separating unrelated businesses.   The foundry and the
two major service operations initially will become separate profit centers
(the foundry is already a profit center since November 1986) and at a later
stage become independent subsidiaries. The existing management information
system will be strengthened to support operational decision making and will
be further integrated to support the strategic planning function.   Cost
accounting will be improved,  including an analysis to better allocate
overheads.    Foreign marketing  consultants will be used  to assist  in
preparing a marketing plan and a marketing information system to promote
the further increase of sales in the convertible currency market.
17.            Software Measures.   The  Project  will support  the above
restructuring strategy, in particular the expansion and improvement of the,
management information system, the training of staff dealing with strategic
planning, marketing, technological development, and the marketing study.
The cost estimate for the software measures supported by the Project are
shown below:



- 139-                           ANNEX 5-3
Page 6
Table 4
Szolnok: Cost Estimates of Software Measures
Ft Million             US$ million
local Foreign Total   local Foreig    Total
Management Training              1.5    5.0    6.5    0.03   0.11    0.14
Management Information System    10.1   13.5   23.6    0.22   0.30    0.52
Market Study                     0.7    5.5    6.2    0.02   0.12    0.14
R&D                              4.4    5.5    9.9    0.10   0.12    0.22
Subtotal                   16.7   29.5   46.2    W.37   6.65    1.02
Contingencies                    4.7    4.0    8.7    0.10   0.09    0.19
Total                      21.4   33.5   54.9    0.47   0.74    1.21
_ C     - 3            __
18.        Impact of Restructuring.  The product-mix for Szolnok is being
simplified with the dropping of barrels and some service operations.  Also,
the standardization of products will decrease the number of parts and
increase the production volume. By 1990, production volume is expected to
increase by 45% compared with 1985 levels, with the largest increases for
CMEA and non-CMEA exports.  Cost reductions will be effected, both through
improved labor productivity as Szolnok intends to keep its employment
stable, economies of scale and the implementation of the production
rationalization strategy. Profitability will improve from 10.5% on sales
in 1985 to 12% in 1990.
3. Oroshaza Agricultural Machinery Enterprise (Oroshaza)
19.        Product/Market Strategy,  The enterprise will continue to focus
its activity on harvesting attachmento. In particular, cornheader business
will be expanded through diversification of sales network for non-CMEA
markets as well as marketing efforts and introduction of stem crusher and
other special devices for models directed for western export markets. The
enterprise will develop harvesting attachments for other crops such as
sunflower  and  specialized  equipment  for  hybrid  maize  seeds.    The
non-related small activity in car repair will be eliminated by the end of
1988.
20.        Production Rationalization Strategy.  The enterprise will focus
on the improvement of plants layout, material handling and elimination of
small,  old shops.    A long  term plan stressing the various steps to
eliminate bottlenecks and inefficiencies will be prepared for the two
factories.
21.       Organlzation and System Strategy.  Present organization structure
suits Oroshaza market strategy. To support the marketing strategy, a new
unit in charge of marketing, market information, sales promotion will be
created under the responsibility of the comercial manager.  A management
information system will be studied and Implemented to improve the
decision-making process. It will be asociated with a production control
system  and  a  marketing  information  system.    A  better  allocation  of
overheads will be studied and implemented.



-140 -                          ANNEX 5-3
Page 7
22.        Software Measures*  The Project will support the above measures,
in particular the development of management information system, the
marketing information system and marketing research, the training and the
export promotion.  The Bank loan would finance the foreign component of
these measures, for which the cost estimate is show below.
Table 5
Oroshaza: Cost Estimate of Software Measures
Pt Million                 US$ Million
Local Foreip   Total      Local Foreign  Total
Management System          5.0      15.8    20.8      0.11    0.35    0.46
Marketing Research         0.3       3.4     3.7      0.01    0.08    0.09
Training                   0.5       0.9     1.4      0.01    0.02    0.03
Export Promotion           -         2.3     2.3       -       0.05    0.05
Subtotal              5.8     22.4    28-.2      0.713    0.50   063
Contingencies               1.6      3.0     4.6      0.04    0.07    0.11
Total                 7.4      25.4    32.8      0.17    0.57    0.74
Impact of Restructuring
23.       Total sales in 1990 are projected to reach US$14.8 million (1985
prices), 5421 higher than those In 1985 with the help of restructuring.
This growth is led by additional sales of maize headers and stalk cutter
attachments in non-CMEA markets, which should rise above the domestic sales
level of US$5.67 million (1985 prices).  The enterprise will be able to
increase production with only a minor Increase in employment.   This is
possible through new tooling and savings in transport and materials
handling.  Most cost reductions will relate to improved materials handling
with resultant savings In labor, equipment, work in process, and storage.
C.  Food Processin  machinery Subeectr
1.  ELGEP
24.          Product/Market Strategy.  ELGEP will narrow its diversified
product-mix and focu on three main product groups, namely machinery for
cheese processing and dairy tanks, milling/fodder mixing, and bakery. The
enterprise will withdraw from production of small volume and unprofitable
items, and products which do not fit in its production profile such as
machinery for meat processing and canning, and storage silos, while it will
study its contined involvement in packaging machinery.   The enterprise
will study the expansion of its pump and fitting production for own needs
and the requirements of other enterprises. For cheese processing, emphasis
will be on upgrading product technology for the CHRA and domestic markets
and to develop cooperation agreements for Western exports. The focus for
milling/fodder mixing will be on upgrading design and finish as well as
cost reduction for non-QCA exports.  For bakery equipment, the emphasis
will be on development of equipment for smaller bakeries for local and CMEA
markets.



- 141 -                         ANNEX 5-3
Page 8
25.        Production Rationalization,  Rationalization of production will
be realized by narrowing of the product-mix and specialization of
production among its plants as follows:   (i) milling/fodder mixing in
factory 1 (Budapest); (ii) cheese processing machinery, dairy tanks, and
components of stainless steel sheeting in factory 4 (Szombathely); and
(iii) bakery machinery in factory 7 (Celldomolk).   ELWEP will study the
necessary adjustment of its production organization in this respect and the
viability of continued manufacturing operations of smaller plants number
3 and 6 (Budapest), and number 5 (Paszto). The enterprise will discontinue
the operation of the outdated foundry at Szombathely by 1990.
26.          Organization and Systems Strategy.   ELUEP will implement a
divisional organization structure for its main product groups, which will
operate as profit ceanters each responsible for marketing, pricing,
production and development.   It will streamline its engineering, main
contracting and erection organization; develop and carry out a management
training program; and develop an action program for reduction of overhead
costs, including reduction of indirect personn#31.   The enterprise will
study   and   implement   an  enterprise-wide   computer-based   management
information system, including improvements in cost accounting and control,
market information gathering, and incentive systems.
27.           Software Measures.   The Project will support the following
measures: Wi) studies for the elaboration of the above strategy, including
for production rationalization, organization and MIS development, and
management training program, and technical assistance for implementation of
the detailed concepts in these areas; (ii) market research in selected
Western export markets; (iii) purchase of equipment and related software
for  implementation  of  a  computer-based  MIS;  and  (iv)  purchase  of
instruments to improve quality control and R&D systems. The cost estimate
for these software measures, of which the Bank loan would support the
foreign costs, is as follows:
Table 6
EGEP - Cost Estimate of Software Measures
million Forint           US$ Million
Local ForegAn Total  kwcal  Foreign  Total
Studies/Technical Assistance      2.0    8.3   10.3   0,04    0,19    0.23
Managemlent Training              1.0    6.8    7,8   0.02    0.15    0,17
Market Research                   2.0   10.0   12.0   0.02    0.22    0.24
MIS Equipment                    15.0   45.0   60.0   0.34    1.00    1.34
QC/R&D Instruments               13.0   31.7   44.7   0.29    0.70    0.99
Subtotal                    33.0  101.8  134.8   0.71    2.26    2.97
Contingencies                     9,2   13.7   22.9   0.20    0.30    0.50
Total                       42,2  115,5  157.7   0.91    2.56    3.47
28.       Impact of Restructuriag Programe  The implementation of the above
strategy with related software measures and restructuring investments is
expected to lead to more competitive products through isproved quality and



- 142 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 9
reduced cost, and to improve sales for the domestic market and Western
exports.   Between 1986-92, the number of products will be reduced from
about 500 to 200 with increasing focus on selected strategic products; the
number of employees wili be reduced by 20%; the shares of domestic and
Western sales will increase to 42% and 32%, respectively, of total sales by
1990 from 35% and 23%, respectively, in 1985; and overall profitability
would improve due to cost reduction and improved price realization from
about 9% of sales in 1985 to 13% by 1990. The enterprise objectives are to
reduce cost by 8-10%, and to increase Western exports by 40-50% between
1985-90.
2. Kecskemet Agricultural and Food Processing Machinery Enterprise
(Kecakemet)
29.          Product/Market Strategy.   For its food processing machinery
activities, Kecskemet will narrow its product range with focus on the
production   of   vegetable   canning   equipment,   including   preparation
equipment, filling/closing equipment, and aseptic packaging for the CMEA
and local markets, and develop non-CMEA exports, particularly LDCs, through
turnkey projects and through cooperation agreements.  The enterprise will
subcontract simple preparation equipment with other local manufactures.
Concerning its agricultural machinery activities, the enterprise will
concentrate on soil implements, particularly combinators, tillage equipment
and harrows. The strategy will focus on maintaining its CMEA market share,
expanding its Hungarian market share and penetrating selected LDCs.  The
focus for grain storage systems will be on turnkey projects managed by the
enterprise with local/international cooperation both for domestic market
and LDCs.  The focus for the cabin segment will be on expanding sales to
original equipment manufacturers requiring specific cabins in small
volume.   Seeder production will be abandoned by 1988.   Components and
subassembly sales will be marketed in both domestic and export markets.
30.        Production Rationalization.  For canning equipment, preparatory
equipment will be concentrated in Tiszakecske, while more sophisticated
closing, filling and packaging equipment will be produced in Kecskemet.
Soil implements will be concentrated in Kiskoros by 1988 without increasing
the labor force in the plant, while seeder production will be stopped in
the  same  year.      The  enterprise  will  study  the  possible  future
subcontracting of steel structures for silos produced in Solt, and of its
low volume fitting production in Tiszakecske, and will review the financial
viability of its wire mesh production in Kiskumajsa as well as of other
loss-making products with a view to stopping such activities.
31.         Organization and Systems Strategy.  Kecskemet will study and
implement a divisional structure for its organization based on its main
product groups with decentralized management functions operating as
separate profit centers, while realizing a clear separation of its
agricultural machinery and food processing machinery activities.   It will
strengthen the strategic planning function and after sale service; and
develop and carry out a management training program, as well as an action
program for reduction of overhead costs, including of indirect personnel.
The enterprise will study and implement an enterprise-wide computer-based
management Information system, including improvements in cost accounting
and control, and market information gathering.



-143 -                           ANNEX 5-3
Page 10
32.           Software Measures.   The Project will support the following
measures:  (i) studies for the elaboration of the strategy, including for
production   rationalization,   organization   and  MIS   development,   and
management training program, and technical assistance for implementatior of
detailed concepts in these areas; (ii) market research in selected WesLeru
export markets; (iii) purchase of equipment and software for implementation
of a computer-based MIS; and (iv) purchase of instruments to improve
quality control systems.   The cost estimate for these measures, for which
the Bank loan will support the foreign costs, is as follows:
Table 7
Kecskemet - Cost Estimate of Software Measures
Million Forint             US$ Million
Local Foreign Total   local  Foreign  Total
Studies/Technical Assistance      1.8    8.6   10.4    0.04    0.19    0.23
Managemant Training               2.8    3.2    6.0    0.06    0.07    0.13
Market Research                   2.0   10.0   12.0    0.05    0.22    0.27
MIS Equipment                    15.3   24.0   39.3    0.34    0.53    0.87
QC/R&D Instruments               10.0    6.0   16.0    0.22    0.14    0.36
Subtotal                    3i.    51.8   83.7    0.71    1.15    1.86
Contingencies                     8.9    7.0   15.9    0,20    0.16    0.36
Total                       40.8   58.8   99.6    0.91    1.31    2.22
33.        Impact of Restructuring Program.  The enterprise will narrow its
product-mix and focus on strategic products as outlined in its product
strategy.   For canning machinery the number of product  lines will  be
reduced by 1990.   For agricultural machinery also, the number of product
lines will be reduced by 1990. Further, the enterprise intends to reduce
employment by 23% from 1985 levels. These measures together with upgraded
production facilities as a result of the restructuring investments under
the Project are expected to lead to improved quality, lower cost and better
price zealization. While the share of domestic sales and CMEA sales would
decline and stabilize, respectively, Western exports would increase from
10% of sales in 1986 to 27% in 1990. Overall profitability is expected to
increase  from  10% of sales  in  1985 to  15% in  1990.   The enterprise
objectives are to reduce production costs by 10-15% and increase Western
exports by 300% between 1985-90.
Industry Department
May 1987



-144 -                          ANNEX 5-4
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Scope of Restructuring Programs for Subectors' Enterprises
Enterprises which intend to participate in the Project are
expected to prepare an integrated restructuring program. The objective of
the enterprise restructuring program should be to increase enterprise
international competitiveness and efficiency and to develop its potential
for direct and indirect exports to convertible currency markets.   Such
enterprise restructuring programs should include the following elements:
1.    Past and Current Activities of Enterprise.   Description and
analysis of product groups, markets, main raw materials and sources,
technology, production organization, structure of distribution and sales
network, and major constraints affecting growth of the enterprise.   The
analysis should be supported by documentation on recent performance
(production, sales, etc.) and financial history.
2.    Product and Market Strategy.   This includes (i) analysis of
current and potential competitiveness of major product groups in the
domestic and export markets; (ii) recomendation for product groups/markets
that should form the enterprise's focus to ensure its economic and
financial viability, and (iii) identification and recommendation of
marketing and distribution arrangements and practices.   The product and
market strategy should be based on a competitiveness analysis of enterprise
main product groups as compared to domestic and foreign competitors,
including  comparative  analysis  of  quality,   cost,  price,  service
competitiveness, etc.
3.    Technology and Production Organization.   Evaluation of product
technology of existing and proposed product-mix with focus on: assessment
of present production facilities with respect to production technology,
tooling, etc., indicating areas for upgrading, replacement and improvement;
assessment of need for production rationalization, including improvement of
plant  layout,  material  handling  and  transportation,  and  need  for
specialization   of   factories;   available   material   inputs   providing
recommendations for materials substitution and savings; examination of
existing licensing and know-how arrangements with recommendation for
necessary know-how acquisition; evaluation of quality control and testing
facilities and need for its strengthening; and overview of research,
development and engineering program of the enterprise.
4.    Organization.  Analysis of the organization structure of the
enterprise, and recommendations for providing an environment of efficient
independent operations for the main business units of the enterprise.
5   Management and 8Sstem Development.  Analysis and recommendations
to strengthen the enterprise management systems, including strategic
planning,  marketing (e.g., market development, market promotion,  sales
distribution, pricing); technical (e.g., production planning and control,



-145-                           ANNEX 5-4
Page 2
maintenance systems, industrial organization and engineering);  financial
(e.g., financial and cost accounting, financial planning, budgeting).
Further, specific recommendations for short-term improvements in management
reporting systems operational activities and long-term development of
management information systems.
6.     Project Analysis.    A detailed analysis should be made  of
proposed  investments  to support  strategies  in the above areas.    The
projects (soft and hardware) should be proposed for their strategic fit,
and an assessment of each project and its viability included in the
program.     Only  investments  which  improve  enterprise  technological
capability, and efficiency and competitiveness at international level
should  be  considered.    The analysis  should  include market assessment
(domestic and export in CMEA and non-CHZA markets); technical aspects
(nature and prices of major equipment and sources of origin); estimation of
capital costs; competitiveness analysis of main product groups (before and
after the implementation of the project) including estimation of new
production cost compared with international levels; and incremental
financial and economic viability of the project (with and without the
proposed investment).    The analysis  should also  include  the proposed
financing plan for the project and financial forecasts for the enterprise
with the project.
Industry Department
May 1987



- 146 -
~61
- gm nW AL r
yew    1987  -                         1 .        1991
Qm ._w  I u     m       _V I  _ m  n I u  _ I  IV I _1m1_ I
-   yehLL Sbha       - _ _-   _.__   
- lMAUt &                 _utai  -  - - _    _                       a
-ii S.tp  afV             -  a -        _--
- F a ~    ~~~~                 -- a -            
I~~~ -  W-  ap                     _af    -  - - a a l- a      
19   I



- 147 -
ANNEX 6-2
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule a9
Cumulative
Calendar Year           Fiscal Year                                        Z of
and Semester            and Semester          Amount          Amount      Total
- (US$ million) -
1987   II               FY68    I              16.4            16.4        10.9
1988    I               FY88   II              26.4            42.8        28.5
II              FY89    I               10.5            53.3        35.5
1989    I               FY89   II              10.1            63.4        42.3
II              FY90    I               12.1            75.5       50.3
1990    I               FY90  'I               14,3            89.8        59.9
II              .'Y91    I              12.9           102.7       68.5
1991    I               FY91   II              12.1           114.8        76.5
II              FY92    I                9.7           124.5       83.0
1992    I               FY92   II               8.7           133.2        88.8
II              FY93    I                5.7           138.9       92.6
1993    I               FY93   II               4.6           143.5        95.7
TI              FY94    I                3.5           147.0       98.0
1994    I               FY94   II               3.0           150.0       100.0
The restructuring imports component of US$40 million is expected to be
disbursed within 12 months of loan effectiveness.
Industry Department
May 1987



-148 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 1
HUNGARY - SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Industrial Sector and Subsectors
A-1: Restructuring program for the Hungarian rubber industry, prepared
by the Boston Consulting Group, UK, June 1986.
A-2: Documents   on  the  rubber   processing   subsector   and   its
infrastructure, prepared by the Ministry of Industry, September
1986.
A-3: Development Strategy to Modernize the Hungarian Farm and Food
Processing Machinery Industry, prepared by Prognos consulting
firm, February 1985.
A-4: Development Strategy for the Modernization  of the Hungarian
Agricultural and Food Processing Machine Production, prepared by
Ministry of Industry, 1985.
A-5: Organization and Environment of the Agricultural Machinery
Subsector in Hungary: Diagnostics and Recomendations, prepared
by Sema-Metra Conse:.l, July 1986.
A-6: Organization and Environment of the Food Processing Machinery
Subsector, prepared by Sema-Metra Conseil, July 1986.
A-7: Agricultural Machinery and Food Processing Machinery Subsector:
Statistical Abstract, prepared by Sema-Metra Conseil, July 1986.
A-8: Documents on food processing machinery subsector and its
infrastructure, prepared by Ministry of Industry, September 1986.
A-9: Document on background of Hungarian supplier (background)
industry, prepared by System consulting company, September 1986.
B. Selected Reports and Studies on Subsector Enterprises and Institutes
B-1: Restructuring program for Taurus Hungarian Rubber Works, prepared
by the Boston Consulting Group, UK, June 1986.
B-2: Restructuring program for Kaloplasztik, prepared by the Boston
Consulting Group, UK, June 1986.
B-3: Organizational  Development  of  Taurus,  prepared  by  Boston
Consulting Group, UK, September 1986.
B-4: Enterprise Restructuring Program for Raba, prepared by Sema-Metra
Conceil, July 1986.
B-5: Enterprise Restructuring Program for Szolnok, prepared by
Sema-Metra Conseil, July 1986.
B-6: Enterprise Restructuring Program for Oroshaza, prepared by
Sema-Metra Conseil, July 1986,
B-7: Enterprise  Restructuring  Program  for  Elgep,  prepared  by
Sema-Metra Conseil, July 1986.
B-8: Enterprise Restructuring Program for Kecakemet, prepared by
Sema-Metra Conseil, July 1986.



-149 -                            ANEX 8
Page 2
C. Selected Working Papers
C-i: Background information on main subsector enterprises, prepared by
the enterprises, September 1986.
C-2: Details on software measures for main subsector enterprises,
prepared by enterprises, September 1986.
C-3: Terms of reference for consulting services for organization and
management system development of main subsector enterprises,
prepared by System consulting company and enterprises.
C-4: Historic and projected financial statements of the seven
enterprises in rubber processing, agricultural machinery, and
.food processing machinery subsectors.
C-5: Background   information  on   intermediary   commercial  banks,
including   detalls   on   their   organization   and   financial
projections.
Industry Department
Nay 1987



NOTES



?'4AP SECTION



1AI
H U N G A P/ Y
SECOND INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SUBSECTOR RESTRUCTURING COMPONENT
LOCATION OF MAIN ENTERPRISES AND PLANTS
Motorway
Main roads
Railroads
)   To&o~',s/o.,o       Canals
-4r ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~              Qartshr  ~                  CRiavears                             <_      -7J
National capital
AUSTRIA                                                 0o    Megye capitals                \I
f   .      I \@ )                    -        Megye (countyl)boundaries      i
Mosor nogyorovo                        International 
To                                                                                      
Vie.nn                                                            Kom6rom                7-'
Csorna         Uf;     yor                                           martaxn    Dunokeszi
Szondn hhely      -zf6kPs    ver
to Gr,                                                                                                                    -''
'<erekel
Keitht                               /                                   1 u   \  -*
46'              <        X       >      X       >     >       Mohocs4!     ' i  ,*    r    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oc
YUGOSLAVIA ~~~~~41                          Kopovor
461                                              oc
j} to Osiek          lOMkTERS 0
MILES 0
Is.



IBRD 20372
20' ~~~CZECHOSLOVAKIA2-,_
ifHdasn6meti                 ro wigafoe     US.S.R
/           y                XSororollovlhely~~~~~~~~W   l  U        R.W7
*>#{<z>KaZl   zinclx ika                                                     vvf.2  ,     
,  > <  r   Mislsol  X  <'Miskol
t  ii>S  {   >\   *          1 ._                             . m~~~~~~~~~vasdr  Niregyh6zra  i s/J
:%Szt<S f > s __ X <S95 >t ~~~~Leninv<2     ir
P    13 O96S         /        o k6vesd                                                                    -_    5/r
Ho N7           g           A/''-OFrdXI                                                       'J
,   +/>\f9  '   .J     j    . NodudvX  |                               y ROMA NI A
<  \   >         .      />      ~~~~~~~Puspoklodony -,   
-~~~ 0 <             ( ~~~~~~Koc_,c
J  c   W  t  '>      <          t ? itices        A  tO Otodeo  Machine~~~~~~~~~~~ral Mauinry
1t)  ? \                    7    A            Mezokovacshazaaza
cse6  -0>                                                                            Rabalc  0L<-  /t->ZCoLvKA   .. 
<;>W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t~~~~o Aod Piroc Wg8uoe|
; to 5ewbotro * _'- A0 5ubottre    . wf *    'ke'             ro ,r). MHinr SUbsecAoR Y/
(346s-6ass/rs^>*                                KeGOskmtAl      ;    _ 
x~~~~~~~~~~7 Aef(T   a;.S            -       bsecUor - -
Bor-,y                            %,, ,, _,%. t ,3sAND.9
~~~HUNGARF8RARY'98



