Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2834 HU
             (Second Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 31, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2834 HU
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 31,  1987, between HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor  hereby  declares its commitment to
the execution of the program  (the Program) referred to in Recital
(A) of the Preamble to the  loan agreement (the Loan Agreement) of
even date herewith  between  the  Bank  and  the  National Bank of
Hungary (the Borrower);
     (B)   the Guarantor and  the  Borrower, having been satisfied
as to the feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (C)   by the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to extend to
the Borrower  a  loan  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the  Guarantor  agree  to  guarantee  the  obligations of the
Borrower in respect  of  such  loan  and  to  undertake such other
obligations as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
     (D)   by an agreement (the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower  and  the Guarantor, part of the
proceeds of the loan  provided  under  the  Loan Agreement will be
made available to the  Guarantor  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's support
of the Program  and  entering  into  the  Loan  Agreement with the
Borrower, has  agreed  so  to  guarantee  such  obligations of the
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as modi-
fied in Section 1.01  of  the  Loan  Agreement (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to, and  Section  1.02  of,  the  Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of  the  Loan, and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of  the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor speci-
fically undertakes, whenever there  is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available  to  the  Borrower  will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures  required  for the carrying out of
Parts B through F  of  the  Project,  to make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                Execution of Part A of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Guarantor  shall  carry  out,  or cause to
be carried out,  Part  A  of  the  Project  with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods  and  services  required  for  Part A of the
Project and to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.03. In order to:
     (a)  assist the  Guarantor  in  carrying  out  Part  A of the
Project, the Guarantor  shall  employ  consultants with qualifica-
tions and experience and under  terms of reference satisfactory to
Page  3
the Bank; and
     (b)  facilitate the carrying out  of  Part  A of the Project,
the  Guarantor  shall  maintain  the  Restructuring  Council,  the
Steering  Committee  and  the   Restructuring  Program  Office  in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07  and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services,  plans   and   schedules,   records   and   reports  and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor  shall:  (a) furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comments, a copy of the study referred to under
Part A (2)  (a)  of  the  Project  upon  its  preparation; and (b)
promptly thereafter  develop  and  carry  out  a  program  for the
further development  of  feeder  industries  within  its territory
based on the results  and  conclusions  of  the said study, taking
into consideration the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall  duly perform all its obli-
gations under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor  shall  not take or concur in
any action which would  have  the  effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Guarantor  shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard to progress of
Part A of the  Project,  the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor  shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part A of the  Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses thereof or the performance  by  the Guarantor of its obliga-
tions  under  this  Agreement   and   under  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                          Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) the Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part  A  of  the Project of the depart-
ments, agencies, institutions and  other entities of the Guarantor
responsible for the carrying out thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
      (i)    have the records  and  accounts  referred to in para-
             graph  (a)  of  this  Section  for  each  fiscal year
             audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate  auditing
             principles  consistently   applied,   by  independent
             auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)    furnish to the Bank as  soon as available, but in any
             case not later than five months after the end of each
             such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
             of such scope and  in  such  detail as the Bank shall
             have reasonably requested; and
    (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
             said records and  accounts  and  the audit thereof as
             the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. In order to: (a) facilitate the carrying out of
the Guarantor's obligations pursuant to Sections 3.03 (b) and 4.03
Page  4
of this Agreement; and  (b)  assist  the Borrower and the Partici-
pating Banks in carrying  out  the  tasks,  in accordance with the
arrangements, referred to in Section 3.03  (b) of, and Part B.5 of
Schedule 7 to, the  Loan  Agreement,  the Guarantor shall maintain
the  Restructuring  Council,   the   Steering  Committee  and  the
Restructuring  Program  Office  with   composition  and  terms  of
reference, satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) The Guarantor  and the Bank shall from time
to time, at the request  of  either party, exchange views, through
the Restructuring Council,  on  the  progress achieved in carrying
out the Program.
     (b)  Prior to  each  such  exchange  of  views, the Guarantor
shall furnish to the Bank for  its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Deputy Chairman of the Guarantor's National
Planning Office or the  Deputy  Minister  of  Foreign Trade of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Foreign Trade  or the Managing Director of
the Borrower is designated as  representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          National Bank of Hungary
          International Monetary Department
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungary People's Republic
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BANKO                            227267 SMAFU-H
               Budapest                         275755 BANKO-H
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                     By /s/ Andras Patko
                                       Authorized Representative
Page  5
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                  Acting Regional Vice President
                            Europe, Middle East and North Africa
