Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2834 HU
             (Second Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                     NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
                       Dated August 31, 1987
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2834 HU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  31,  1987 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK OF
HUNGARY (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank  has  received  the "Letter of Intent on
the  Development  of  Economic  Conditions  Concerning  Industrial
Restructuring in Hungary" dated  May  6,  1986,  and the letter on
"Statement concerning the  Development  of Economic Conditions for
Industrial Restructuring in Hungary" dated  May 8, 1987, both from
the Government of  the  Hungarian  People's  Republic describing a
program of objectives,  policies  and  actions designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the industrial sector of the economy (the
Program) of the Hungarian People's Republic (the Guarantor);
     (B)  the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project;
     (C)  by the Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has declared its commit-
ment to the execution of  the  Program and agreed to guarantee the
obligations of the Borrower in  respect  of the Loan and to under-
Page  2
take such other obligations as  set  forth in the Guarantee Agree-
ment; and
     WHEREAS on the basis, inter  alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided, in support of the  Program  and in order to assist in
the carrying  out  of  the  Project,  to  extend  the  Loan to the
Borrower  upon  the  terms  and   conditions  set  forth  in  this
Agreement.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the  Borrower  and  the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Lending Agreement" means any agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and an Eligible Bank pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time, and  such  term  includes all schedules to such
Subsidiary Lending Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Financing Agreement"  means any agreement to
be entered into  between  the  Borrower  and  a Participating Bank 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
such Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
     (d)  "Eligible  Bank"  means  the  Foreign  Trade  Bank,  the
National Savings Bank, the  General  Banking and Trust Company and
any other banking institution  designated  as an eligible Bank for
purposes of Part D of  the  Project  by agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower and  with  which  the Borrower shall have entered
into a Subsidiary Lending Agreement;
     (e)  "Participating Bank" means any banking institution which
satisfies the conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 7 to this
Agreement and with which  the  Borrower  shall have entered into a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
     (f)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a
Participating Bank, out of the  equivalent  of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by  the Borrower, to a Beneficiary for a
Restructuring Project or a Restructuring Study;
     (g)  "Beneficiary" means any enterprise or institute referred
to in Part F  of  the  Project  and  to which a Participating Bank
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (h)  "Restructuring Project"  means  a specific restructuring
and development project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utiliz-
ing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (i)  "Restructuring Study" means a  study to prepare an inte-
grated program for the improvement of the organization, management
and operating systems of a  Beneficiary  to be carried out by such
Page  3
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (j)  "eligible  industrial  subsectors"  means  the  plastics
processing, rubber  processing,  agricultural  machinery  and food
processing  machinery  subsectors  of  the  Guarantor's industrial
sector;
     (k)  "feeder industries" means industrial enterprises engaged
in the production of  intermediate  goods for utilization by other
industrial enterprises in their manufacturing operation;
     (l)  "Category" means a category of  items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan set  forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (m)  "Special Account A"  and  "Special  Account  B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (n)  "Basic Law" means  Law  Decree  No.  36  of 1967, of the
Presidential Council of the Guarantor,  as  amended to the date of
this Agreement;
     (o)  "Credit Policy Guidelines" means the guidelines regulat-
ing the provisions  of  credit  by  financial  institutions in the
Hungarian People's Republic as  established by Resolution No. 1082
of 1986, of the Council of Ministers of the Guarantor;
     (p)  "Restructuring Council"  means  the  Council established
pursuant  to  the  Resolution  of  the  Economic  Council  of  the
Guarantor,  dated  October  3,  1985,  and  to  be  maintained  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Section  4.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (q)  "Steering  Committee"  means  the  Committee established
pursuant to the Resolution of  the Economic Council of the Guaran-
tor, dated October 3,  1985,  and  to  be maintained in accordance
with the provisions of  Section  4.02  of the Guarantee Agreement;
and
     (r)  "Restructuring Program Office"  means  the Office estab-
lished pursuant to the  Resolution  of the Guarantor's Minister of
Industry, dated July 26,  1985,  as  amended  to  the date of this
Agreement, and to be maintained  in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
and fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the purposes of, respectively,
(i) Part B of the Project, and (ii) Parts A and C through F of the
Project, open and maintain  on  its  books  in dollars two special
accounts to be designated, respectively,  as Special Account A and
Special Account B,  on  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and  payments  out  of, Special Account A and
Special Account B shall be  made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement, respectively.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
Page  4
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent (1/2  of  1%)  per annum above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  or  cause to be
carried out the  Project  and  conduct  its operations and affairs
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate technical, administrative, economic and financial standards
and practices, with qualified management  and staff and in accord-
ance with the  Basic  Law  and  the  Credit Policy Guidelines, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
     (b)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available  to the Guarantor the equivalent
in the currency of  the  Guarantor  (determined  as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account or payment
out of the Special  Account  B)  of  the  value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or  paid  out  on  account  of the cost of
goods and services for Part  A  of  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  allocated  from time to time to
Category (1) under a subsidiary  loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Guarantor, under terms and conditions
which shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank,  and which shall
include, without limitation, terms pursuant to which the Guarantor
shall undertake to: (i) repay  the principal amount so made avail-
able over a period of  15  years,  inclusive  of a grace period of
three years; and (ii) pay interest on the principal amount so made
available and withdrawn and  outstanding  from  time  to time at a
rate equal at least to  (A)  the  rate of interest applicable from
Page  5
time to time to the Loan  pursuant  to Section 2.05 of this Agree-
ment, and (B) an additional  charge  equal to twenty percent (20%)
of the amounts to be paid pursuant to subparagraph (ii)(A) hereof.
     (c)  For the purpose of carrying  out  Part D of the Project,
the Borrower  shall  make  available  to  the  Eligible  Banks the
equivalent in the currency of  the Guarantor (determined as of the
date or respective dates  of  withdrawal  from the Loan Account or
payment out of the Special Account B) of the value of the currency
or currencies so withdrawn or paid  out  on account of the cost of
goods and Consultants' services, on  the  basis  of a list of such
goods and services approved  by  the  Bank for procurement by each
such Eligible Bank in  accordance  with the provisions of Sections
II and III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be financed out the
proceeds of the Loan allocated  from  time to time to Category (4)
under subsidiary lending agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each such  Eligible  Bank, under terms and conditions
which shall  have  been  approved  by  the  Bank,  and which shall
include, without limitation, terms pursuant to which such Eligible
Bank shall undertake to:  (i)  repay  the principal amount so made
available over a period of not more than ten years, inclusive of a
grace period of not more  than  three years; and (ii) pay interest
to the Borrower  on  the  principal  amount  so made available and
withdrawn and outstanding from  time  to  time  at a rate equal at
least to: (A) the rate of interest applicable from time to time to
the Loan pursuant to Section  2.05  of  this Agreement, and (B) an
additional charge equal to twenty  percent (20%) of the amounts to
be paid pursuant to subparagraph (ii) (A) hereof.
     (d)  For the purpose of  carrying  out  Parts  E and F of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  make  available to the Participating
Banks the equivalent of the  proceeds  of  the Loan referred to in
Part  A.1  of  Schedule  7  to  this  Agreement  under  subsidiary
financing agreements to be  entered  into between the Borrower and
each of the Participating Banks,  under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved  by  the  Bank,  and which shall include,
without  limitation,  those  set  forth  in  Schedule  7  to  this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  coordinate and  monitor  the  overall  execution  of the
Project and supervise the carrying  out by the Participating Banks
and the Eligible  Banks  of  their respective Subsidiary Financing
and Subsidiary Lending Agreements  in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  ensure that, except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) not more than one  Sub-loan  shall  be made to any one Benefi-
ciary under Part F  (1)  of  the  Project;  and (ii) the aggregate
amount of all Sub-loans  made  by  the Participating Banks, or any
one Participating Bank,  shall  not  exceed  (A) the equivalent of
$10,000,000 to any one  Beneficiary  under  Part  F (2) (a) of the
Project and $4,000,000 to any one Beneficiary under Part F (2) (b)
of the Project, and (B) when added to any other amount financed or
proposed to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of any other loan
provided for by the Bank in any outstanding loan agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower, the  proceeds of which have been or are
being  used  for  financing   goods   and  services  directly  and
materially related to a  Restructuring  Project or a Restructuring
Study to  be  financed  under  such  Sub-loans,  the equivalent of
$200,000 for any one Restructuring  Study  under Part F (1) of the
Project, $5,000,000 for any one Restructuring Project under Part F
(2) (a) of the  Project  and  $2,000,000 for any one Restructuring
Project under Part F (2) (b) of the Project.
     (c)  without limitation or restriction  upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan  Agreement,  take all action, including
the provision of funds,  facilities,  services or other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Participating Banks and the
Eligible Banks to  perform  in  accordance  with the provisions of
their  respective  Subsidiary  Financing  and  Subsidiary  Lending
Page  6
Agreements all the obligations  of  such  Banks therein set forth,
and not take any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance; and
     (d)  exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the Subsidiary  Financing  Agreements  and  the Subsidiary Lending
Agreements in such  manner  as  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to  accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank  shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall,  in  order to assist it in
carrying out:
     (a)  Part C of the  Project, employ consultants with qualifi-
cations and experience and  under  terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank; and
     (b)  its obligations pursuant  to  Sections  9.06 and 9.07 of
the General  Conditions  (relating  to  plans  and  schedules, and
records and reports,  respectively), maintain arrangements, satis-
factory to the Bank, with the Restructuring Program Office.
     Section 3.04. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, licenses and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections  9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and  reports and mainte-
nance, respectively) shall be carried out  in respect of Part A of
the Project by  the  Guarantor  pursuant  to  Section  3.04 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  and  the  records and
               accounts for  the  Special  Account  A, the Special
               Account B and  the  account  referred to in Section
               4.02  of  this  Agreement   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
      (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts  as well as the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
        (i)    maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
       (ii)    retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Except  as  the  Bank  may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  open, by the date  on  which  it shall receive the first
payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of principal
under,  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  any  of  the Subsidiary
Financing Agreements, or any of the Subsidiary Lending Agreements,
and  thereafter  maintain  a  separate  account  on  its  books in
accordance with its normal  financial  practices and on conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  upon receipt of  each  such  payment  or repayment under
each such Agreement, credit the same to the said separate account.
All amounts so  credited  to  the  said  separate account shall be
utilized by the Borrower, to the  extent they are not yet required
to meet the  Borrower's  repayment  obligations  to the Bank under
this Agreement, exclusively  to  finance the further restructuring
and development of industrial  enterprises  in accordance with the
Credit Policy Guidelines and on the basis of criteria satisfactory
to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Basic Law or the Credit Policy Guidelines shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated,  repealed  or  waived so as to
affect materially and  adversely  the  ability  of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  An event shall have occurred which shall make it improb-
able that the  Program,  or  a  significant  part thereof, will be
carried out.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional  event is  specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
Page  8
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
     (b)  that at least  two  Subsidiary Financing Agreements have
been executed on  behalf  of  the  Borrower  and two Participating
Banks.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Guarantor and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with its
terms; and
     (b)  that each of the  Subsidiary Financing Agreements refer-
red to in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower and a Participating
Bank and is legally binding  upon the Borrower and a Participating
Bank in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The President of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          National Bank of Hungary
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               BANKO                             227267 SMAFU-H
               Budapest                          275755 BANKO-H
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  9
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
                    By /s/ Ferenc Horvath
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods, consul-            5,000,000        100% of foreign
     tants' services                            expenditures and
     and training for                           100% of local
     Part A of the                              expenditures (ex-
     Project                                    factory cost) for
                                                goods and 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for con-
                                                sultants' services
                                                and training
(2)  Goods for                40,000,000        100% of foreign
     Part B of                                  expenditures
     the Project
(3)  Goods, consul-            2,000,000        100% of foreign
     tants'services                             expenditures and
     and training for                           100% of local
     Part C of the                              expenditures (ex-
     Project                                    factory cost) for
                                                goods and 100% of
                                                foreign expendi-
                                                tures for consul-
                                                tants' services
                                                and training
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Goods and                     500,000    100% of foreign
     consultants'                             expenditures and
     services for                             100% of local
     Part D of                                expenditures (ex-
     the Project                              factory cost) for
Page  10
                                              goods and 100% of
                                              foreign expendi-
                                              tures for consul-
                                              tants' services
(5)  Consultants' ser-             700,000    100% of foreign
     vices and training                       expenditures
     for Part E of the
     Project
(6)  Goods, consultants'                      100% of foreign
     services, technical                      expenditures and
     licenses and train-                      100% of local
     ing:                                     expenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost) for
     (a)  for Part F (1)         1,800,000    goods and 100% of
          of the Project                      foreign expendi-
                                              tures for consul-
                                              tants' services,
     (b)  for Part F (2) (a)    44,000,000    technical licenses
          of the Project                      and training
     (c)  for Part F (2) (b)    46,000,000
          of the Project
(7)  Unallocated                10,000,000
          TOTAL                150,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures under Category (2) except: (i) for expendi-
tures on account of the  import by industrial enterprises of goods
described in the Annex to this  Schedule; and (ii) on the basis of
a certification by the Borrower  that  such goods are not supplied
under a contract  which  any  national  or international financing
institution or agency, other than the Bank, shall have financed or
agreed to finance;
     (c)  expenditures under  Category  (4)  by  an  Eligible Bank
until evidence satisfactory to  the  Bank shall have been received
by the Bank that a  Subsidiary Lending Agreement has been executed
on behalf of, and is  legally  binding upon, the Borrower and such
Eligible Bank; and
     (d)  expenditures under Categories (5)  and (6) by a Partici-
pating Bank or by  a  Beneficiary  under  a  Sub-loan made by such
Participating Bank, until evidence  satisfactory to the Bank shall
have been received by the  Bank that a Subsidiary Financing Agree-
ment has been executed on behalf  of, and is legally binding upon,
the Borrower and such Participating Bank.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
              Goods to be financed under Category (2)
     Further  to  the  provisions  set  forth  or  referred  to in
Page  11
Schedule 1 to this Agreement,  withdrawals  of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time  to Category (2) shall be made in
respect of expenditures by enterprises on account of the import of
goods included in the following  Heading numbers of the year 1985-
1986 English version of  the  Hungary's Bulletin International des
Douanes, Number 192 (8th  Edition), published by the International
Customs Tariffs Bureau:
          Heading No.                  Description of Goods
          27.01                        Coal
          39                           Artificial resins, plastic
                                       materials and products
          40                           Rubber, synthetic rubber
                                       and articles thereof
          73.09 through 73.16          Flat and non-flat finished
                                       steel products.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to (1) implement industrial
policy and institutional  reforms  to  facilitate the execution of
the Program, and (2) restructure  and further develop the eligible
industrial subsectors and feeder industries.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     (1)  The carrying out of a  program to strengthen the organi-
zations and capacities  of  the  agencies,  institutions and other
entities involved in the formulation and execution of the Program,
including the design and application of a suitable tax information
system and the provision of studies to develop appropriate strate-
gies for the  application  of  policies  under  the Program, staff
training, equipment and computer hardware and software.
     (2)  The carrying out, through the Steering Committee, of (a)
a study to prepare a program for the further development of feeder
industries, and (b)  an  analysis  of selected priority industrial
subsectors and the identification of suitable strategies for their
further development.
     (3)  The  strengthening  of  the  functions  of  research and
engineering institutes providing  quality control, product testing
and research and engineering  services to the eligible subsectors,
including the provision of staff training and equipment.
     (4)  The  carrying   out,   with   the   assistance   of  the
Restructuring Program Office,  of  a  program  to (a) appraise the
technical feasibility of, and  supervise  the procurement of goods
and services for, the Restructuring  Projects, and (b) promote the
preparation  of,  and   evaluate,   the  integrated  restructuring
programs of the Beneficiaries.
Part B:
     The carrying out  of  a  program  for  the financing, through
the sale of foreign exchange  by  the Borrower, of urgently needed
imports  by  enterprises   resulting   from   the  elimination  of
uneconomic lines of production and  the expansion of economic ones
under the Program.
Page  12
Part C:
     (1)  The carrying out of  a  study  for  the  setting up of a
payment and clearing center for the Guarantor's banking sector.
     (2)  The design and carrying out of a program for the further
development of the information  system  of the Borrower, including
the provision of equipment and staff training.
Part D:
     The strengthening of the management organization and the data
processing operations of the  Eligible Banks, including the provi-
sion of equipment.
Part E:
     The design and carrying  out  of  a program to strengthen the
organization,  management  and  operations  of  the  Participating
Banks, including the provision of staff training.
Part F:
     The financing, through the provision of loans, including Sub-
loans, by Participating Banks out  of  the proceeds of funds to be
made available to them  by  the Borrower, including those referred
to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement:
     (1) of studies to  prepare  integrated programs for improving
the product  and  market  strategy,  organization,  management and
operating systems of industrial enterprises; and
     (2) of specific  restructuring  and  development projects for
the upgrading and  expansion  of  the  facilities  and the streng-
thening of  the  organization,  management  and  operations of (a)
enterprises and institutes  operating  within the eligible indust-
rial subsectors or  supporting  the  operations of said subsectors
through the provision  of  quality  control and testing, research,
development and engineering, technical  and market information and
export promotion services, and  (b) industrial enterprises engaged
in the production of  intermediate  goods for utilization by other
industrial enterprises in their manufacturing operations.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1991
     through August 15, 2002                          6,250,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
Page  13
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years                             1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods to be Financed under Category (2)
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
Page  14
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $3,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods on the basis
of comparison of price  quotations  solicited  from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Part B:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to  each  of  the  first  three  contracts to be
procured pursuant to paragraph 1  of  Part  A of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where  payments  for  such contract are to
be made out of  the  Special  Account  A, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment out of  the  Special  Account  A  in respect of such
contracts.
2.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
Part A of this Section and not governed by the preceding paragraph
1 of this Part, the Borrower  shall  furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in respect of such contracts, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
Part A of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall furnish to the Bank,
prior to the submission to  the  Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as  the  Bank may reasonably request
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  2 and 3 of this
Part, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account A,  the copies of such contract or
the documentation and the information  to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to the provisions of  said  paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 as
the case may be, shall  be  furnished  to  the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
5.   The provisions of paragraphs 1  through  4 of this Part shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
6.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.    Procurement  of   Goods   to   be   Financed  under
               Categories (1) and (3) through (6)
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistentwith those set forth 
in Sections I and II of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the territory of
the Guarantor may be granted  a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
Page  15
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods and technical licenses  which  the Bank agrees: (a) are
of a proprietary  nature,  or  (b)  the  timely  supply thereof is
critical for efficient Project  execution, may be procured through
direct negotiations with the suppliers of such goods and licenses,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   (a)  Goods and technical licenses  which  the Bank agrees are
supplied through  a  limited  number  of  sources,  and  (b) goods
estimated to cost less than  the equivalent of $1,000,000 per con-
tract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent of
$40,000,000,  may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded through
limited  international  bidding   procedures   on   the  basis  of
evaluation and comparison  of  bids  invited  from  at least three
qualified suppliers from at  least  three countries eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance  with the procedures set forth in
Sections I and  II  of  the  Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Goods which are estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$50,000 per  contract  and  in  the  aggregate  not  more than the
equivalent of $5,000,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison  of  price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to  bid  and  proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to (i)  each  of  (A)  the first three con-
tracts to be financed  under  Category  6  (b),  and (B) the first
three contracts to be financed under Category 6 (c), and estimated
to cost less than the equivalent  of $1,000,000 and (ii) each con-
tract estimated to cost the  equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account  B, such procedures shall be modi-
fied to ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the contract
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment out of  the  Special  Account  B  in respect of such
contracts.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding subparagraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be  made  out  of the Special Account B, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section III.   Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Page  16
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Account A
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Category" means Category (2);
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for Part B of the
Project and  to  be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1  to this Agreement and the Annex
thereto; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in Special Account A  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, payments out of
Special  Account  A  shall   be   made  exclusively  for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account A  has  been  duly  opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account A may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account A  such  amount  or  amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special  Account  A  at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify. On the basis  of such requests, the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account A with amounts not  exceeding  the amount of payments made
out of the Special Account  A  for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the  eligible  Category,  and  in  the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account A for which  the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  the  Special Account A shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made directly by the Borrower
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
Page  17
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to Categories (1) through  (6), minus the amount of
               any outstanding special  commitment entered into by
               the Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of $40,000,000.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account A as of  the  date  of  such  notice  have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account A (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account A (or, if the Bank  shall  so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible  or  justified.  No further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account  A  shall be made until the Borrower
has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account  A will not be required
to cover further payments  for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(3) through (6);
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of  goods required for Parts A, C,
D, E and F of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
and the Annex thereto; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $5,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited in Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, payments out of
Special Account B shall be  made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account B  has  been  duly  opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account B may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account B such  amount  or  amounts  as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
Page  18
replenishment of the Special  Account  B  at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify. On the basis  of such requests, the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account B with amounts not  exceeding  the amount of payments made
out of the Special Account  B  for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the  eligible  Category,  and  in  the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account B for which  the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the  provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into  the  Special Account B shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made directly by the Borrower
               from the Loan Account  in  accordance with the pro-
               visions of paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to Parts A, C, D, E and F of the
               Project, shall be equivalent of twice the amount of
               the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account B as of  the  date  of  such  notice  have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account B (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account B (or, if the Bank  shall  so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal  to  the  amount  of  such  payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible  or  justified.  No further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account  B  shall be made until the Borrower
has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account  B will not be required
to cover further payments  for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 7
               Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                  Subsidiary Financing Agreements
     Except as the Bank  and  the  Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the principal terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in this Schedule
Page  19
shall  apply  for  the  purposes  of  Section  3.01  (d)  of  this
Agreement.
A.   Terms:
1.   The aggregate amount to be  made available by the Borrower to
a Participating  Bank  under  its  respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement (the Subsidiary Finance) shall  be the equivalent in the
currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the respective date or
dates of withdrawal from the  Loan  Account  or payment out of the
Special Account B) of the  value  of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of:
     (a)  the consultants' services  and  training  to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  allocated  from time to time to
Category (5) for  such  Participating  Bank  under  Part  E of the
Project (Part A of the Subsidiary Finance); and
     (b)  the goods, consultants' services, technical licenses and
training to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to  Category  (6) for Restructuring Projects and
Restructuring Studies under  Sub-loans  made by such Participating
Bank under  Part  F  of  the  Project  (Part  B  of the Subsidiary
Finance).
2.   The Subsidiary Finance  shall  be  charged,  on the principal
amount  thereof  withdrawn  and  outstanding  from  time  to time,
interest at a rate equal  at  least  to:  (a) the rate of interest
applicable from time to  time  to  the Finance pursuant to Section
2.05 of this  Agreement;  and  (b)  an  additional charge equal to
twenty percent  (20%)  of  the  amounts  to  be  paid  pursuant to
subparagraph (a) hereof.
3.   The Subsidiary Finance shall be  repaid in accordance with an
amortization schedule pursuant to which:
     (a)  Part A thereof shall  have  a  maturity of not more than
ten years, inclusive of  a  grace  period  of  not more than three
years; and
     (b)  each portion of Part B thereof utilized in the making of
a Sub-loan shall  have  a  maturity  calculated  to conform to the
amortization schedule applicable to such Sub-loan.
4.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the right of a
Participating Bank to the  use  of  the proceeds of its respective
Subsidiary Finance shall be:  (a)  suspended  upon failure by such
Participating Bank to  perform  any  of  its obligations under its
respective Subsidiary Financing  Agreement;  and (b) terminated if
such right shall have been  suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a)
hereof for a continuous period of forty-five days.
B.   Conditions:
     A Subsidiary Financing Agreement  may  be entered into with a
banking institution, duly established and operating under the laws
of the Guarantor, which the Borrower shall have determined, on the
basis of an appropriate  review,  and  the Bank shall have agreed,
that such institution:
1.   has  a  sound  financial   structure   and  the  lending  and
investment  policy,  organization,  management,  staff  and  other
resources  required  for  the   efficient   carrying  out  of  its
operations and affairs, and has  undertaken  to carry out the same
in accordance with  its  lending  and  investment policy and sound
financial standards and practices;
2.   has undertaken to  provide,  promptly  as  needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying
out of Parts E and F of the Project and has adopted and undertaken
to maintain suitable procedures to enable it effectively to:
Page  20
     (a)  appraise  the  financial  and  economic  feasibility  of
Restructuring Projects  and  make  Sub-loans  to Beneficiaries for
Restructuring Projects  and  Restructuring  Studies  in accordance
with its lending and  investment  policy  and  on the basis of the
criteria, procedures and principal  terms and conditions set forth
in the Annex to this Schedule;
     (b)  supervise, monitor and  report  on  the  carrying out by
Beneficiaries  of  the  Restructuring  Projects  and Restructuring
Studies, including  the  procurements  of  the  goods and services
therefor, and on the carrying  out  by such Beneficiaries of their
respective integrated restructuring programs  referred to in para-
graph 1 (b) (ii)  of  Part  C  of  the  Annex  to this Schedule in
accordance with policies and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank
and the Borrower; and
     (c)  exercise its rights  under  its agreements providing for
Sub-loans, in such a  manner  as  to  protect the interests of the
Bank and the Borrower, comply  with its obligations under its Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement and achieve  the purposes of Part F of
the Project;
3.   has undertaken not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of
its agreements providing  for  Sub-loans  or any provision thereof
without the prior approval of the Borrower;
4.   has developed and  undertaken  to:  (a)  carry out a program,
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, for the further strength-
ening of its organization, management  and operations under Part E
of the Project; and  (b)  as  may  be  determined necessary by the
Borrower, employ  consultants  with  qualifications and experience
and under terms  of  reference  satisfactory  to  the Bank and the
Borrower, to assist it in the carrying out of the said program;
5.   has concluded and undertaken to maintain arrangements, satis-
factory to the Bank and  the Borrower, with the Restructuring Pro-
gram Office to assist  such  Participating Bank in: (a) appraising
the technical and market feasibility of Restructuring Projects and
evaluating the integrated  restructuring  programs  of the Benefi-
ciaries in accordance with  the  provisions  of  the Annex to this
Schedule; and (b)  carrying  out  the  supervision, monitoring and
reporting activities in  accordance  with  the provisions of para-
graph 2 (b) hereof;
6.   has undertaken to  procure  the  consultants'  services to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Section III of Schedule  4 to this Agreement and use
such services  exclusively  for  the  purposes  of  Part  E of the
Project; and
7.   has undertaken to (a)  maintain records and accounts adequate
to  reflect  in  accordance  with  consistently  maintained  sound
accounting  practices  its  operations  and  financial conditions,
(b) have its financial  statements  (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and  related  statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance  with  appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied by independent  auditors acceptable to the Bank,
(c) furnish to the Borrower as  soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, certi-
fied copies  of  its  financial  statements  for  such  year as so
audited, and the report of  such  audit  by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail  as  the  Bank or the Borrower shall have
reasonably requested, and (d)  furnish  to the Borrower such other
information concerning  said  accounts,  financial  statements and
records, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank or the Borrower
shall from time to time reasonably request.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 7
           Restructuring Projects, Restructuring Studies
              and Sub-loans; Criteria, Procedures and
                  Principal Terms and Conditions
Page  21
     Subject to the provisions  of  Section  3.02  (b) of the Loan
Agreement and except as the  Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the criteria, procedures and principal terms and conditions
set forth in this Annex  shall  apply  for  the purposes of Part B
2 (a) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
A.   Terms:
1.   The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be the equivalent
in the currency of  the  Guarantor  (determined  as of the date or
respective dates of withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account or payment
out of the Special  Account  B)  of  the  value of the currency or
currencies so withdrawn or  paid  out  on  account  of the cost of
goods, consultants' services, technical licenses and training (the
goods and services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Category (6).
2.   Sub-loans shall each be  made  by  a Participating Bank for a
period not exceeding ten  years,  inclusive  of a grace period not
exceeding three years, and on  other terms, including those relat-
ing to interest and  other  charges,  which are in accordance with
the lending and investment policy of such Participating Bank.
B.   Conditions of Sub-loans under Part F (1) of the Project:
     Sub-loans shall be made:
1.   to  Beneficiaries   who   each   shall   have  satisfied  the
eligibility conditions set forth  in  paragraph  1  (b) (i) (B) of
Part C of this Annex,  for  the financing of consultants' services
to assist in carrying out a Restructuring Study; and
2.   on terms  whereby  the  Participating  Bank  shall obtain, by
written contract or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of  the  Bank and the Borrower, including
that each Beneficiary shall: (a) carry out the Restructuring Study
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in accordance with appro-
priate practices; (b) use  the  consultants' services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan exclusively in the carrying out of the
Restructuring  Study;  and   (c)   prepare   and  furnish  to  the
Participating  Bank  all  such  information  as  the  Bank  or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
C.   Conditions of Sub-loans under Part F (2) of the Project:
1.   Sub-loans shall be made:
     (a)  for Restructuring Projects  (i) whose technical feasibi-
lity shall  have  been  established  to  the  satisfaction  of the
Restructuring Program Office, and  (ii)  which are each calculated
by the Participating Bank to  have financial and economic rates of
return of at least 18%, all as shall be established and calculated
on the basis of appraisals  carried  out in accordance with guide-
lines satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  to Beneficiaries which each  shall have (i) established,
to the satisfaction  of  the  Participating  Bank  on the basis of
guidelines  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  that  (A)  its projected
internal cash generation or  equity  increases shall be sufficient
to enable it  to  meet  its  share  of  the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying  out  of  the Restructuring Project, and
(B) it is in a position to  maintain a debt to equity ratio of not
more than 65:35, a debt  service  coverage  ratio of not less than
1.5:1, and a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not
less than 1.3:1;  and  (ii)  developed  and  adopted an integrated
restructuring program,  acceptable  to  the  Restructuring Program
Office on the basis of  guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include the  improvement  of  such Beneficiary's product and
market strategy, organization,  management  and operating systems;
and
Page  22
     (c)  (i) under Part  F  (2)  (a)  of  the Project, to Benefi-
ciaries operating within  the  eligible industrial subsectors with
at least  30%  of  the  sales  revenues  of  each such Beneficiary
derived from its operations within said subsectors, and (ii) under
Part F (2) (b) of the  Project, to Beneficiaries with at least 70%
of each such Beneficiary's  output  being sold to other industrial
enterprises all as  shall  be  determined  to  the satisfaction of
Participating Bank on the basis  of guidelines satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   No  expenditures  for  goods   or  services  required  for  a
Restructuring Project shall be  eligible  for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for  such  Restructuring Project shall have
been approved by the  Bank  and  such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than  one  hundred  and  twenty days prior to the
date on which the  Bank  shall  have  received the application and
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Part in respect
of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for  such  Restructuring Project shall have
been a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the Bank shall have autho-
rized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier  than one hundred and twenty days
prior to the  date  on  which  the  Bank  shall  have received the
request and information  required  under  paragraph  3 (b) of this
Part in respect of such  free-limit  Sub-loan. For the purposes of
this Annex, a free-limit Sub-loan  shall be a Sub-loan, other than
the first two  Sub-loans  to  be  made  by each Participating Bank
under each of subparts (a) and  (b)  of Part F (2) of the Project,
for a Restructuring Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall  not exceed the sum of $2,000,000
equivalent.
3.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan  (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to  the  Bank  for  approval,  the  Participating Bank shall
furnish to the Borrower for submission to the Bank an application,
in form satisfactory to the  Bank, together with (i) a description
of  the  Beneficiary;  (ii)  the  appraisal  of  the Restructuring
Project, including a description  of  the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan; (iii) the integrated
restructuring program of the  Beneficiary referred to in paragraph
1 (b) (ii) of this Part  and the time schedule for its implementa-
tion; (iv) the  proposed  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization  thereof and (v) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request for authorization  to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain
(i) a summary description of the Beneficiary and the Restructuring
Project, including a description  of  the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a description of
the integrated restructuring  program  of the Beneficiary referred
to in paragraph 1 (b) (ii)  of  this Part and the time schedule of
its implementation; and (iii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization thereof.
4.   Sub-loans shall be  made  on  terms whereby the Participating
Bank shall obtain, by written  contract or other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to  protect  the  interests of the Bank and
the Borrower, including:
     (a)  that each Beneficiary shall  undertake to: (i) carry out
and operate  the  Restructuring  Project  with  due  diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with safety, health and environmental
standards, satisfactory to  the  Bank,  and  with sound technical,
financial and  managerial  standards  and  practices  and provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities  and other resources
required for the purpose; (ii)  procure  the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
provisions of Sections II and III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
Page  23
and use such goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of
the Restructuring Project; (iii) employ,  in order to assist it in
the  implementation  of  its  respective  integrated restructuring
program referred to in paragraph  1  (b)  (ii) of this Part and to
the  extent  determined   required   by  the  Participating  Bank,
consultants  whose   qualifications,   experience   and  terms  of
reference shall be satisfactory to  the Bank and the Borrower, and
carry out said program in such a manner as to achieve the purposes
thereof; (iv) enable the  Bank  and  the  Borrower to inspect such
goods and  the  sites  and  works  included  in  the Restructuring
Project, the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant  records and
documents; (v) take out and  maintain such insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business practice, including,  without  limitation, such insurance
to cover hazards incident  to  the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation,  any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely  usable by the Beneficiary to replace
or repair such goods; (vi)  maintain  the  debt to equity and debt
service coverage ratios and the ratio of current assets to current
liabilities as specified in paragraph 1  (b) (i) (B) of this Part;
(vii) prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Participating  Bank all such
information as the Bank  or  the Borrower shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing,  to  its administration, operations and
financial condition and to  the  benefits  to  be derived from the
Restructuring  Project;  and  (viii)   (A)  maintain  records  and
accounts  adequate  to  reflect  in  accordance  with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, (B)  have  its  financial  statements  (balance sheets,
income statements and cash  flow  statements) for each fiscal year
audited,  in  accordance   with  appropriate  auditing  principles
consistently applied, by  independent  auditors  acceptable to the
Bank, (C) furnish to the  Participating Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later  than  five months after the end of each
such year, certified copies  of  its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank or the Borrower shall
have reasonably requested,  and  (D)  furnish to the Participating
Bank such other  information  concerning  said accounts, financial
statements and records, as well as  the audit thereof, as the Bank
or the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request; and
     (b)  provisions to ensure the right of the Participating Bank
to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan  upon  failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under  its contract with the Participating
Bank.
