Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16090-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATIJRAL RESOlIRCES PROJECT
April 14, 1997
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: = Balboa
US$1 = I Balboa
Weights and Measures
I quintal (qq) = 100 pounds = 46 Kg.
Fiscal Year
January I - Decembcr 31
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
ABC            Atlantic Biological Corridor
CAP            Community Action Plan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
Comarca        Indigenous administrative district
(Corregimiento  Smallest administrative division in Panama
CTC            (COrregimiento Technical Committcc
FES            Social Emergency Fund (Fondo dc Emcrgencia Social)
FUSARD         Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development
GEF            Global Environmental Facility
GOP            Government of Panama
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IDIAP          Agricultural Rcsearch Institutc (Inst. dc Investigaci6n Agropecuaria)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Dcvelopment
IICA           Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture
INRENARE    Institute for Renewable Natural Resources (Instituto dc Recursos Naturales Renovables)
10             Implementing Organization
IPDP           Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
LIB            Limited International Bidding
MBC            Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
MIDA           Ministry of Agricultural Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
MIPPE          Ministry of Planning and Economic Policv (Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Econ6micz
NAPAS          National Protected Area System
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
PA             Protected Area
PCU            Project Coordinating Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PTC            Provincial Technical Committee
RUTA           Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in Agriculture in Central Amcrica
SA             Special Account
SDC            Sustainable Rural Development Committee
SOE            Statement of Expenses
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:                     Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                           Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Leadership Group Manager:    Michael Baxter
Sector Leader/Task Manager:        Mark Cackler



i
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page Number
Loan  and  Project Summary  .................................................... ..................................... iii
I. BACKGROUND ...................................................................1
A. COUNTRY  OVERVIEW  ..........................................................................................1
B. GOVERNMENT POLICY IN AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES ....................................................1
C. RURAL POVERTY AND NATuRAL RESOURCES .2 ...........................................e..2
D. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK                                                                                                .........................................6
E. Gov'T STRATEGY FOR RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ..........8
F. BANK  INVOLVEMENT IN  THE SECTOR .......................................................................................                                         .8
G. ACTIONS BY OTHER DONORS IN THE SECTOR ...........................9......................   ,9
H. LESSONS LEARNED .................................................                                                                                                 9
II. THE PROJECT ....................................                                                                                                                    11
A. ORIGIN .................................................                                                                                                         11
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION .................................................. 11
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK AND GEF INVOLVEMENT .                                                     ................................................. 13
D. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES ..................................                                                                                                 14
E. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................................. 15
F. PROJECT BENEFICIARIES AND  PARTICIPATION ..........................................................                                                             18
G. GENDER A SPECTS ..........................................................                                                                                      18
H. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES ASPECTS.                                                                        .......................................................... 19
I. COSTS AND FINANCING ..........................................................                                                                                  19
111 PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................................                                                                                  22
A. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ..................................    .. 22
B. PROCUREMENT ..................................                                                                                                                   26
C. DISBURSEMENTS ..................................                                                                                                                30
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ..................................                                                                                                          31
E. STATUS OF PROJECT READINESS ..................................                                                                                                  32
F. SUPERVISION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION ............................................. 32
IV. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................                                                                                                     35
A. SOCIAL IMPACT .............................................                                                                                                     35
B. ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOM ICAL ANALYSIS .............................................. 36
C. SUSTAINABILITY .3...................... .8 3
D. SUMMARY OFPROJECT BENEFITS.. .                                                                                                                                  39
E. PROJECT RISKS .. ......... 39
V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS, LOAN CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ............ 41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Panama in October 1996 consisting of: Mark Cackler,
Maurizio Guadagni, Luis Constantino, Jorge Uquillas, Teresa Roncal (Bank), Kathy Mackinnon (GEF-Bank), Martin
Raine, James Smyle (RUTA Agriculture), Nelson Espinoza (IICAIRUTA), Alicia Pitty, Manuel Rodes, Jose Morcillo,
Antonio Armas and Agapito Ledezma (Government Project Preparation Unit). Other Bank staff that have contributed
to the preparation of the project include Michael Baxter, Arnoldo Contreras, Gabriel Keynen, Silvia Castro, Cora
Shaw, Richard Ground, Jose Antonio GonzAlez, Doris Herrera-Pol, Sandra Vallimont and Socorro Gane. The Peer
Reviewers were Tom Wiens (Bank), and Janice Alcorn (World Wildlife Fund).



TABLES IN TEXT
Table 1. Project Cost Summary ........................................................     20
Table 2. Components by Financiers .21
Table 3. Procurement Arrangements .27
Table 4. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .29
Table 5. Analysis of Indicative Community Subprojects                                      37
FIGURES IN TEXT
Figure 1. Poverty in Panama: Urban-Rural Disparities                   .3
Figure 2. Migration in Panama (1990-95) by Province                    .5
ANNEXES
A - Sustainable Rural Development Component
Figure 1: FUSARD Flow of Funds
Appendix 1: Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development (FUSARD)
B - Biodiversity Conservation Component
Table 1: National Protected Area System - By Category
Table 2: National Protected Area System - Detail
Table 3: Preliminary Proposal of Protected Areas For Strengthening Under Mesoamerican
Corridor Sub-Component
Appendix 1: Land Titling
C - Project Organization, Administration and Coordination
Figure 1: Functional Organogram of the Project
Figure 2: Project Implementation Schedule
D - Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
E - Estimated Costs, Financing and Disbursements
Table 1: Components Project Cost Summary
Table 2: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
Table 3: Project Component by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
Table 4: Expenditure Accounts by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
Table 5: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Table 6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 7: Estimated Disbursements
F - Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting
Appendix 1: Financial Indicators
Appendix 2: Status of Legal Covenants
Appendix 3: Key Performance Indicators
Appendix 4: Project Impact Indicators
G - Economic Analysis of Community Subprojects and Protected Areas
Table 1: Analysis of Indicative Community Subproject
Table 2: Financial Analysis for Four Protected Areas (Option A)
Table 3: Financial Analysis for Four Protected Areas (Option B)
Table 4: Protected Areas
Table 5: Financial Analysis, Isla Bastimentos Marine Park
H - Documents in the Project File
MAPS: IBRD No. 28335  Transportation and Relief
IBRD No. 28336  Forest Cover and Atlantic Biological Corridor
IBRD No. 28337  Protected Areas
IBRD No. 28338  Rural Development Component
IBRD No. 28339  Darien Province
IBRD No. 28505  Poverty in Panama



iii
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Panama
Implementing Agencies:    Ministry of Agricultural Development (MIDA) and the
Institute for Renewable Natural Resources (INRENARE)
Poverty Category:         Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                   US$22.5 million
Lending Terms:            Single currency-loan, denominated in U.S. Dollars, based on
Libor rates.
Commitment Fee:           0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:           See para. 2.19
Net Present Value:        See paras. 4.6 - 4.10
Associated GEF Project ID: 45937
Project Identification No.:  PA-PA-7847
Maps: IBRD No. 28335: Transportation and Relief
IBRD No. 28336: Forest Cover and Atlantic Biological Corridor
IBRD No. 28337: Protected Areas
IBRD No. 28338: Rural Poverty Component
IBRD No. 28339: Darien Province
IBRD No. 28508: Poverty in Panama
Vice President:                  Shahid Javed Burki
Director:                       Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Leadership Group Manager:    Michael Baxter
Sector Leader/Task Manager:     Mark Cackler






PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Overview
1.1   Country and Sector Background. With a 1996 per capita income of US$2,880
and low inflation, the Panamanian economy appears to be among the most prosperous in
the region. Progress on the economic reform agenda has been good in recent years,
supported in part by the Economic Recovery Loan (Ln. 3438-PA), which disbursed its
third and final tranche in April 1997.
1.2   As a result of the progress made, prospects for growth in Panama are good. GDP
growth of 3.5% is projected for 1997 and 4% thereafter, and stable growth would support
Government's poverty alleviation efforts. In the meantime, however, Panama has one of
the most unequal distributions of income in the hemisphere, and, as described below, rural
poverty in particular has had a negative effect on the conservation of natural resources.
B. Government Policy in Agriculture and Natural Resources
1.3   Historically, inefficient public expenditure and policy distortions were prevalent in
the rural sector, especially prior to 1989. Public expenditure has had an urban bias, in
particular in favor of those activities related to international trade and the Panama Canal.
Expenditure in human capital formation has also been concentrated in the urban areas.
Where there has been expenditure to rural areas or agriculture in particular, it has been
targeted to medium and large farmers: the Agricultural Research Institute - Instituto de
Investigaci6n Agropecuaria, has emphasized research for crops and activities that medium
and large producers are able to invest in: irrigation, extensive cattle, mechanized rice, etc.,
and which have limited relevance for small mixed crop/livestock producers. Credit
subsidies have been used mainly by large farmers for livestock production and mechanized
rice.
1.4   The most negative impact of Governments past policies in the agricultural sector
and the livelihood of the rural population has come from trade protection, which in theory
was intended to improve (small) producers' incomes. Its actual effect was to increase the
cost of food, both for the urban as well as the rural populations, including subsistence
farmers who are net consumers of food. Government also protected and provided
subsidized credit for those activities in which Panama has no comparative advantage: rice,
milk, tomatoes, corn, sugar. For those where Panama does have a clear advantage
(sustainable forest extraction or plantations, and export crops like melon and root crops) it



-2 -
did relatively little. The more competitive crops (bananas, coffee) were taxed, while the
least competitive (milk, rice) were subsidized.
1.5   In the natural resource sector, policies have been equally contradictory, producing
on balance, a negative effect on the environment. Government has difficulties controlling
deforestation of private or protected areas. There is little research on species selection
and marketing. In the past, the support, protection, and subsidization of the cattle
industry has been a major contributor to deforestation, in Panama as in most of Central
America.
1.6    Realizing the effect these policies have had on poverty and natural resource
degradation, the Government has since 1989 initiated changes that have reduced the role
of the state in the economy, privatized state enterprises, reduced tariff and non-tariff
barriers, increased social investment in the rural sector and reduced credit subsidies.
However, there have been many decades of neglect in the rural areas, and a longer-term
concerted effort is needed to redress the situation, with special emphasis on employment-
creating and income-generating productive activities, both on- and off-farm, and improved
management of the country's unique biological resources.
C. Rural Poverty and Natural Resources
1 7    Rural Poverty. According to the 1991 national household survey, 42 percent of
households were poor, and 23 percent were in extreme poverty (Figure 1). These
percentages understate the true situation, because the survey only includes households
whose income is known, thus excluding some of the poorest groups, such as subsistence
farmers and indigenous populations. The rural poor (two-thirds of the total), can be found
throughout the country (IBRD Map No. 28508), but they are particularly concentrated in
the more mountainous, resource-depleted parts of the country. Basic needs (education,
health and housing) met are particularly low: Veraguas 9 percent, Cocle and Colon 17
percent, and Herrera 29 percent1. A graphic representation of the disparities in urban-
rural poverty in Panama is in Figure 1; poverty is considerably more widespread and more
extreme in the rural areas.
Source "Panama: Niveles de Satisfacci6n de las Necesidades Basicas, MIPPE, 1993". The definition
of basic needs includes the provision of education, health, and housing.



-3 -
Figure 1. Poverty in Panama: Urban-Rural Disparities
Families in Poverty
80%                                            ......
60%.
20%-,t.  I-l .<8;.
40%
Urban                    Rural
Families in Extreme Poverty             Average Income of the Poorest
40 Percent
40%                      rT
30%                     . . |             60%-
20%   ( ,                                 40%  K  i
10%     l     R         :                 20%-          1       eRg!
0%  ''                                    0%              ...... ... .. '1
Urban         Rural                       Urban        Rural
Poor Households Headed by                       Illiteracy Rate
Women
80%                -                    20%- 
60'   ;Lt                                15%
Urban        Rural                       Urban         Rural
Source:  "Desigualdades e Inequidades en el Desarrollo Econ6mico y Social de PanamA: Principales Indicadores",
Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Politica Econ6mica; Panama, May, 1996.
1.8    Most of the rural poor who live in these areas subsist in ecologically fragile areas
with degraded natural resources, little forest cover, poor soils, and threatened water
supplies. Many have insufficient land (47 percent have less than 1 ha), they must use
poorly maintained roads for access to markets, and they have little working capital, credit,
or new agricultural technologies. Their farm incomes are supplemented by occasional



-4 -
employment, often seasonal, which is usually considerably below the legal minimum wage.
More than half of rural men (55 percent) and women (59 percent) receive incomes below
the $250 monthly minimum. Health and education services are often absent or far from
the villages. Finally, a large percentage of their limited cash income is spent on high cost
food (para 1.5) and related to this, malnutrition is prevalent.
1.9    Women are usually the most affected by poverty, suffering from additional work,
poor nutrition, health (life expectancy is five years less than men's) and education services,
low wages and even less access than poor man to credit, land markets and technology.
Indigenous populations are the poorest of the poor (para. 2.18), and receive little
governmental assistance, although this is now changing somewhat. Recent experiences
(para 1.15 and 1.16) with both the rural poor mentioned above and the indigenous groups
show the considerable potential which exists for improving living standards through
productive activities if appropriate participatory, demand-driven assistance is provided to
the communities.
1.10  Natural Resources. The Isthmus of Panama is the terrestrial bridge which unites
the continental masses of North and South America and separates the waters of the Pacific
and Atlantic Oceans. This and a number of other biogeographic and climatic factors
combine to make Panama a high biodiversity country with 12 confirmed life zones out of
30 globally. Its narrow mass between two oceans and sharp altitudinal gradients (sea-level
to 3,400m) cause a compression of life zones and rapid changes within and between
habitat-types. The former Canal Zone transects such a gradient and represents the only
location in the Americas where an interoceanic biological corridor is still practically
uninterrupted, protecting the water supply of a $400 million per year operation (shipping
fees and services related to the Canal) of global economic importance.
1.11  In addition, a large portion of the Atlantic watershed constitutes relatively pristine
ecosystems, forming a defacto biological corridor from Colombia to Costa Rica (IBRD
Map No. 28336), making it a very important part of the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor. The forests of the Darien (IBRD Map No. 28339), which are also part of the
corridor, act as a biological barrier to the interchange of economically important crop and
livestock diseases and pests (e.g., foot and mouth disease) between South, Central, and
North America. From a conservation perspective, a recent World Bank study2 has
identified Panama as the one country in the Central American Isthmus with areas of
globally important Tropical Moist Broadleaf Forest (Choc6/Darien moist forests). Also of
note from this study, two-thirds of Panama falls either into the "highest" or "high" priority
category for biodiversity conservation.
1.12  The existence of such rich biodiversity contrasts sharply with the land use
situation. Over half the forests have disappeared mostly in the Pacific, leaving about 43
percent (33 million ha) forested mostly in the Atlantic. Another 25 percent of all lands are
considered either as degraded or in the process of rapid degradation, and as in other
2 A Conservation Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America and The Caribbean, 1995,
World Bank.



countries, this process is often tied to rural poverty, highly prevalent in Panama (para 1.8).
The lack of opportunities in the degraded areas (primarily the mountainous Central Pacific
provinces of Veraguas, Chiriqui, Colon, Cocle, Herrera) has forced thousands of small
farmers to migrate to resource-rich areas (provinces of Bocas del Toro and Darien), where
they receive a higher return to their labor by deforesting, cultivating the land for a few
years, and then, often selling the land to extensive livestock operations. Their
deforestation is usually preceded by loggers who extract the most valuable timber species.
Overall deforestation, including timber extraction and other activities, is estimated at an
annual rate of 55,000 ha. These migration patterns are graphically represented below.
Figure 2. Migration in Panama (1990-95) by Province
(number of migrants)
50,000 ~~i 
40,000
30,000
54~~~~~~~SnosCoe    oldn   ,    *  _1_
20,000-................-.....
10,0001                                         i Especial'No.2,  oa     Geneal-d
-20,000-,f                    v     ''                               ]
Panama BLocs D_   
del Toro             Helea     1                L       ''
Santos               Cln Ciiu^
Source:- "Situaci6n Demogrfifica - Proyecci6n dc la Poblacion Total de la Repuiblica, por provincia
segfin sexo y grupos de edad, Aiios 1990- 2015", Boletin Especial No.2, "Contraloria General de
la Repuiblica, Panama, 1994.
1.13   To protect what remains of the country's healthy ecosystems, the government has
set aside 23 percent of its territory to form the National Protected Area System (NAPAS -
IBRD Map No. 28337), made up of 46 management units, and with representation of
most of the 12 confirmed life zones. However, the generous size of the system has not
been adequately supported. Field personnel are under-equipped, boundaries have not
been clearly established, and there are only a few parks which have the most rudimentary
facilities to receive visitors or scientists. Strategic planning, staff training and alternative
financing strategies are often lacking or inadequate. The result of this is that the NAPAS



- 6 -
is experiencing invasions and deforestation and some "forest reserves" are now down to
only 20 percent forest cover.
D. Institutional Framework
1.14   Community Organizations. While there have been efforts to organize rural
communities in the past, most have had little lasting effect in the communities. These
efforts have involved land reform organizations, cooperatives, community-wide groups,
sectoral community groups related to religion, politics, health, education, and agricultural
production. Some of the reasons for the failure or non-sustainability of many of these
groups are: high poverty rates, paternalistic approaches to development and limited or no
efforts to strengthen community development in leadership, organization, and project
cycle methods. Despite this generally weak environment for community organization,
several rural organizations have survived and prospered, including organizations for
marketing and savings and loan. Some recent experiences have also shown that
participatory approaches have yielded significant returns in terms of reaching goals and
maintaining longer-term sustainability. Municipalities3 are quite weak, and generally
ineffective in promoting development in their constituency area. There are several
programs aimed at strengthening them, such as the Local Investments Programs and XXI
Century, executed by the Planning Ministry (MIPPE). The Social Emergency Fund (FES)
is also a successful example of a demand-driven, participatory mechanism to finance
4
mainly social infrastructure4.
1.15   Local Private Organizations. There are a number of private organizations in the
high rural poverty areas of the Central Pacific, in the Provinces of Herrera, Veraguas and
Los Santos, including non-governmental organizations (NGO), cooperatives and producer
organizations. Some of the more active NGOs include FundeProve (Desarrollo de la
Provincia de Veraguas), PRODESO (Promoci6n del Desarrollo Social), and Fundamujer.
About 20 cooperatives also operate in these areas, including two of the most important in
the country: Juan XXIII, and COOPEVE (Cooperativa del Educador Veraguense).
Other cooperatives relate to milk producers, livestock production, agricultural marketing,
savings and loans, and a union of agricultural exports cooperatives (UCA.PE). There are
also several agricultural organizations, including ADEMIP (Asociaci6n para el Desarrollo
del Micro y Pequefio Productor) for small and medium producers, and an organization of
3 The administrative division of the country is province (9), district (68), which is the municipal level,
and corregimiento (510), the representatives of which form, with the elected mayor, the municipal
council. As in other Latin American countries, the municipality covers a geographic demarcation that
includes urban and rural areas.
4 The FES, established in 1990, was formerly financed by USAID, and now is supported by the Inter-
American Development Bank, and IFAD. The World Bank is now preparing a project to support it for
an additional period. FES channels matching grants to finance investments in the whole country. It is
an autonomous public entity, independent from the cumbersome regulations on procurement,
disbursement, and financial management of other governmental institutions. It is directly managed by
the President's office. As is normally the case with such funds elsewhere in the Latin American
region, most investment is destined to social infrastructure and a small proportion of its resources
destined to productive subprojects.



- 7 -
small and micro-entrepreneurs. Several of these have worked on a small scale with donors
on rural credit, community organization, identification and implementation of community
projects, agro-industries and agricultural technology. As mentioned above, participatory,
demand-driven approaches to rural development have been the most successful, although
many of the smaller organizations require strengthening through training and the adequate
provision of equipment to improve their effectiveness in the field.
1.16 Ministry of Agricultural Development (MIDA). MIDA has the greatest
government presence in rural areas. However, despite its coverage, it is spread thinly; it is
estimated that MIDA provides technical assistance to less than 5 percent of farmers,
mostly medium and large commercial farmers, and the Agricultural Research Institute
(IDIAP) has almost exclusively emphasized developing technologies for commercial
agriculture in the past. MIDA's structure is made up of provincial directorates with
considerable decision-making delegation, and it utilizes agricultural extension offices in
each district which, typically, are made up of up to seven or eight agricultural and social
science professionals. MIDA can legally constitute farmners' organizations called
Agricultural Committees and Rural Women's Groups. Generally speaking, field staff are
inadequately trained, especially for dealing with small farmers, and underequipped for
transport, rural communications or field demonstrations. MIDA has begun to work with
NGOs in an effort to increase its coverage and effectiveness, in particular for small farmers
which it has paid relatively little attention to in the past. Its newly created Department of
Rural Development supervises various new small farmer projects (para 1.22), showing its
efforts to reach the small farmer and improve its project management capacity. Other
sectoral institutions include the Agricultural Marketing Institute, the Community
Development Institute, and the Panamanian Cooperative Institution.
1.17  Institutefor Renewable Natural Resource (INRENARE). Charged with the
conservation and management of renewable natural resources, INRENARE has focused
most of its efforts on the formation and management of the National Protected Areas
System (para 1. 14), though it also has reforestation and forest management programs, and
regulation and control of natural resource use. Considering its responsibilities,
INRENARE is inadequately staffed, trained, managed and equipped, and only recently has
the possibility of moving towards financial self-sufficiency been studied, e.g., charging
entrance fees for tourists and scientists, carbon sequestration agreements, etc. Panama is a
signatory of most international conventions, including the Biological Diversity
Convention, International Wetlands Convention-RAMSAR, Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), and the Central American Alliance for Sustainable
Development, among whose projects are the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor running
from southern Mexico through Northern Colombia.



- 8 -
E. Government Strategy for Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resource
Management
1.18  Government's strategy for alleviating poverty and inequality has four main
elements: (a) introducing the conditions for sustainable growth, in particular policy
reforms that mitigate the bias against employment creation, reduce the high cost of the
basic consumption basket, and alter the incentive framework to encourage increased
agricultural production and employment in rural areas, where most poor people live; (b)
introducing more effective mechanisms to protect people most susceptible to malnutrition
and disease; (c) improving efficiency and equity in social expenditures through social
sector reforms, especially in education and health, and targeting subsidies to the most
vulnerable groups; and (d) institutional modernization in those institutions most directly
linked to poverty.
1.19  Government's strategy in the natural resources sector emphasizes the
fulfillment of the obligations set out in the law establishing INRENARE. With a vast
mandate for the conservation and management of renewable resources, including direct
control of 23 percent of the national territory, INRENARE's immediate priorities are
strengthening its staff, introducing improved management methods, and equipping its field
operations. Although some areas that are important for biodiversity protection remain
outside the NAPAS, the priority at this point is to consolidate the management of lands
already in the system. This includes better establishing the legal boundaries of protected
areas, avoiding the expansion of settlements already inside the protected areas, and
establishing protected area management committees with surrounding communities in the
buffer zones to integrate them in day-to-day operations, so these communities will be
more likely to conserve the protected resources. Promoting the longer term financial
viability of the NAPAS is another important objective of INRENARE, and Government,
with INRENARE's oversight, has embarked on a reforestation program.
program.
F. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.20  The Bank has been relatively inactive in the agricultural sector of Panama for many
years. The most recent investment loans, which were for livestock and fisheries, were
approved in 1977. Since then, there have been two significant non-lending interventions:
First, since 1980, the Bank has been the executing agency for a United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) project called the Regional Unit for Technical
Assistance in Agriculture in Central America (RUTA), co-financed by the Central
American Governments and other donors including the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Food and
Agriculture Organization, and the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture
(IICA). RUTA is now in its third phase and provides technical assistance and other
support to Central American Ministries of Agriculture and other agencies. Second, in
1995 the Bank approved an Institutional Development Fund grant (No. 28877) for a
program to MIDA's Sectoral Planning and Programming Department, which is being



- 9 -
implemented with RUTA support. Two thirds of the program has been implemented and
it has been successful in strengthening a previously weak Department, by providing basic
training and equipping of its staff. The Department's analytical focus, which now includes
the small farmer, was conspicuously absent from MIDA's outlook and field efforts in the
past. The Bank has also supported reforms of the agricultural sector at the macro level
through the Economic Recovery Loan (No. 3438-PA, approved January 30, 1992), which
has supported Government in the removal of various distortions, particularly related to
trade (high protectionism) and price policies. The third and final tranche release was
approved for disbursement in March 1997.
G. Actions by Other Donors in the Sector
1.21  Although MIDA in the past has centered its attention on commercial farmers, the
current Administration has supported programs small farmers in an effort to alleviate
poverty (para. 1.19). These include various smaller pilot operations utilizing budgetary
resources and funds from the World Food Program and the European Union and are
aimed at promoting sustainable agriculture, increasing productivity, increasing access to
rural credit and developing community organizations. IFAD is implementing two projects
in high poverty and indigenous areas (Ngobe-Bugle and the Darien) and is preparing a
third project in the poorer central provinces. The Inter-American Development Bank is
financing a Modernization of Agriculture Services Project, aimed at increasing the
competitiveness of commercial farmers. Other projects are mentioned in para. 1.15.
1.22  INRENARE is currently implementing 23 projects, most of which are relatively
small (except for a larger project financed by the United States Government, they total
US$15.0 million). They include sustainable development in frontier agricultural areas
(European Union); training (Government of Japan); agro-forestry (Government of
Germany), strengthening the protected areas system (U.S. in association with ANCON, a
local NGO) and protected area and buffer zone management in the Darien (Global
Environment Facility, GEF).
H. Lessons Learned
1.23  Beneficiary Participation. There is considerable experience worldwide, some
supported by the Bank, on demand-driven development. A recent Latin American review
shows that: (i) participation by communities in project identification and preparation helps
meet community needs more closely than if investments are decided centrally; (ii) once the
communities develop a sense of ownership in a project, they are willing to co-invest in it
and support its maintenance; and (iii) if allowed responsibility for project implementation,
communities will better ensure that contractors execute the project honestly and according
to established standards. Some small-scale programs in Panama have adopted these
participatory methods with considerable success (paras. I . 14 and 1. 15).
1.24  Rural Decentralization. The proposed project would support the strengthening of
rural communities, typically at the village level. Other countries have chosen, in similar



- 10-
projects, to work directly with the municipalities, which cover a district that can include
hundreds of communities. The Panamanian Government, which has other municipality
strengthening projects (para 1.14), has decided in this project to work directly with the
local communities as a step toward overcoming a strong paternalistic legacy and toward
grass-root decentralization. Community organization and self-management are among the
project's prime objectives, as experience has shown them to improve the targeting of the
poor, to provide more local control and to increase development focus and accountability.
1.25  Biodiversity Protection. Recent Bank experience in this area has grown
considerably in the last five years with 27 Bank supported and 31 GEF supported projects
worldwide, totaling US$531 million. An independent review of the UNDP and Bank
affiliated projects financed by the GEF showed that more emphasis needs to be given to
avoid: (i) insufficient attention to local people and their expertise and priorities; and
(ii) inadequate NGO involvement. A recent Bank review5 of its projects in the sector
concluded that: (i) conservation incentives must be substantive and realistic; (ii) buffer-
zone activities and areas must be clearly prioritized with related rural development
activities for neighboring communities. A UNDP executed GEF project, Biodiversity in
the Darien, started in January 1995, takes into account several of these lessons:
substantive buffer zone community involvement in the implementation, and providing
greater economic incentives for project beneficiaries.
" Mainstream Biodiversity in Development: A World Bank Assistance Strategy for Implementing the
Conservation on Biological Diversity".



- 11 -
H. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
2.1   In 1994, the Bank agreed to a Panamanian Government request for assistance in
preparing a project dealing with natural resource conservation and management. Project
preparation was financed by a grant from the Japanese Government and a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). Project preparation was carried out by a small unit that
operated under the directives of a MIDA, INRENARE, and MIPPE steering committee,
with the assistance from the Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in Agriculture in
Central America (RUTA).
2.2   Although the project originated as a natural resources project, its scope was
expanded during project preparation, given the realization that a great deal of natural
resource degradation is linked to rural poverty. Experience in Panama and elsewhere had
shown that fencing off forested/protected areas does not stop invasions and deforestation;
the root causes of these have to be dealt with, including rural poverty. Neither rural
poverty programs nor natural resources management have been given sufficient attention
by Government in the past, but the present Administration has made several efforts to
reverse this situation. In the rural areas this has meant increased expenditure, mainly in
the social sectors. Few investments have been made in productive activities, however,
which are essential to increasing employment and income.
2.3   During project preparation, two issues came up which particularly influenced
project design. The first was whether the two major components, dealing with rural
poverty and natural resources, respectively, should be separated into two projects. It was
ultimately determined with Government that the arguments were stronger for keeping
them together to deal with the root causes of rural poverty, which in turn could alleviate
pressure on natural resources. In addition, it was decided that maintaining both
components in a single project would promote the coordination between public and
private institutions that work in both sectors, thereby reinforcing the links between the
two. Second (and perhaps somewhat contradictory to the first issue), in view of the fact
that this would be the first Bank financed operation in the rural productive sector in many
years, there were suggestions made during project preparation to consider including other
rural development areas that require support, such as national research and extension
programs, the rural financial sector, and the national land administration system. It was
ultimately decided that this project should maintain its focus on a few priority areas,
although during implementation of the project new areas could be identified that future
Bank-supported lending and non-lending services could address.
B. Project Objectives and Summary Description
2.4   The principal objectives of the project are to: (i) apply, on a pilot basis,
methodologies that would channel financial resources to rural communities to assist them
in promoting sustainable productive systems, and thereby reduce rural poverty, the



- 12 -
degradation of natural resources and migration; and (ii) promote the sustainable use and
conservation of selected priority biodiversity areas. Special emphasis would be placed on
gender and indigenous aspects. More specifically, operational goals include:
(a) Creating capacity at the local community level to organize, self-diagnose
problems, plan activities through participatory means, seek out and negotiate assistance,
and act in pursuit of resolving priority quality of life issues.
(b) Establishing a demand-driven financing mechanism that operates in high
poverty areas and provides matching grants to communities for activities that help reduce
rural poverty, improve the quality of life, and offer alternatives for sustainable natural
resource management and livelihood.
(c) Promoting the long-term conservation and sustainable use of Panama's
biodiversity resources, including the biological corridor that passes through the Atlantic
watershed.
2.5    To meet these objectives, the project would finance three closely related
components:
(a) Sustainable Rural Development. Implemented by the Ministry of
Agricultural Development (MIDA), NGOs, and private and community
organizations, this component would promote community training,
organization, planning and investment. The project would: (i) provide training
and organizational assistance to communities to identify their needs, in
activities related to production technology, production support, community
organization and rural development, and to prepare community development or
action plans using participatory methodologies; and (ii) establish a demand-
driven Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development (FUSARD)
that would provide matching grants to communities to help finance these plans
in whole or in part (other sources of funds would also be used when available).
Eligible investments would include: agricultural system research, agricultural
extension, technical assistance, training and productive infrastructure, including
mini-irrigation schemes, processing facilities, reforestation and rehabilitation of
rural roads.
(b) Biodiversity Conservation.6 Implemented by the Institute for Renewable
Natural Resources (INRENARE) and NGOs, this component would support
6 Although conceptually and administratively part of the same project, the GEF grant (for the Atlantic
Biological Corridor) would be managed as a separate financial operation, with different timing,
documentation, legal agreements and supervision reports. The GEF activities are still under
preparation, and expected to be submitted for Board approval in FY98, and if approved,
implementation would start about four months after the IBRD loan is effective. The description



- 13 -
activities in selected areas in the Pacific Zone and the Atlantic Biological
Corridor. The component would finance (i) biodiversity research and planning,
including base studies, management plans, and environmental impact
assessment and monitoring; (ii) capacity building for relevant actors in
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use, including modernization of
protected areas management and institutional strengthening in environmental
impact assessment processes; and (iii) activities that contribute to biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use, including protected areas delimitation and
infrastructure, and environmental subprojects.
(c) Project Coordination. The above two components would be coordinated by
a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), formed mostly by seconded staff from the
two lead institutions, MIDA, and INRENARE. Through this component, the
project would also finance technical assistance and studies agreed with the
Bank for these and other areas related to rural development and natural
resources management.
C. Rationale for Bank and GEF Involvement
2.6    Consistency with the CAS. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Panama (Report No. 13846-PAN), dated December 28, 1994, and discussed at the Board
on February 7, 1995, focuses on: (i) reviving sustainable growth; and (ii) poverty
alleviation. This strategy is consistent with the overall thrust of the donor program in
Panama, which emphasizes medium-term fiscal viability, sustainable growth, poverty
reduction, and environmental conservation. The proposed project is consistent with these
objectives and is included in the CAS. It would foster sustainable growth in rural areas,
thereby stabilizing populations that may otherwise migrate to frontier areas and to cities
(Figure 1). The Biodiversity Conservation Component would improve natural resource
use and conservation and help increase the economic potential of these areas for future
generations, and the Sustainable Rural Development Component would focus resources
on poverty alleviation.
2.7    Consistency with GEF Strategies. The proposed GEF supported activities are
consistent with the guidance from the First and Second Conferences of the Parties (COP I
and COP2). The project would: address in situ conservation; include institutiona)
capacity building; strengthen conservation management, and promote suitable use of
ecosystems and habitats, including coastal and marine ecosystems and mountain regions"
and strengthen the involvement of local and indigenous peoples and integrate social
dimensions, including those related to poverty. The proposed GEF supported activities
are also part of a larger GEF-supported strategy for an integrated Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor within GEF operational program #3 for forest ecosystems. Other
presented of GEF financed activities is preliminary and could be changed during the on-going
preparation of the component.



- 14 -
related projects are currently under preparation with Bank and GEF support in Honduras
and Nicaragua.
2.8   Complementarity with other Bank Operations. The project would complement
two on-going IBRD operations that support poverty alleviation: the Basic Education
Project (Loan No. 3994, approved March 3, 1996), the Nutrition and Health Project
(Loan No. 3841, approved 7 February, 1995) and the proposed Social Investment Fund
Project (Fondo de Emergencia Social, or FES, scheduled for Board presentation later in
1997).. The project would be especially complementary to the FES Project as part of a
rural poverty alleviation strategy. Based on experience elsewhere in Latin America
(Chapter 1), when Community Action Plans (CAPs) are prepared, they are likely to
contain a combination of productive and social needs. The Rural Poverty and Natural
Resources Project would support the preparation of CAPs including subprojects to
address both needs: the social subprojects would then be submitted to the FES and other
financing sources when available, and the productive subprojects would be submitted to
the FUSARD (for rural roads, see para. 2.11 (b)). Besides this linkage to the proposed
FES Project, project preparation has coincided with and has been linked to the Bank-
supported Living Standards Measurement Survey; many of the results of the study will be
used as part of the project's baseline survey.
2.9 Complementarity Between the Bank and GEF Financed Activities. The
proposed project has been developed to provide the Government of Panama with a
coherent, multi-sectoral response to the interrelated issues of rural poverty, natural
resources management, and biodiversity conservation. The Bank financed activities would
contribute to the specific objectives of the GEF financed activities by: (i) channeling rural
development investments and agricultural intensification to the poor mountainous regions
of the Central Pacific provinces, thereby reducing the causes leading to out-migration and
expansion of the agricultural frontier caused by farmers squatting in protected areas;
(ii) contributing to strengthening of the protected areas system and INRENARE' s
institutional capacity for conservation and management. At the same time the GEF
financed activities would complement the Bank financed activities by: (i) identifying
priority areas for conservation and sustainable use within the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor to guide public spending; (ii) establishing sustainable mechanisms for biodiversity
protection, and the financial viability of the protected areas; (iii) supporting local
subprojects related to global biodiversity benefits, and (iv) training indigenous and non-
indigenous communities in methodologies and technologies consistent with the overall
objective of biodiversity conservation and natural resources management.
D. Program Objective Categories
2.10  Most project activities and benefits are related to the productive activities of the
rural poor and the sustainable use of the natural resource base. Approximately 70% of
project communities are below the poverty line. Therefore, the project is included in the
Program of Targeted Interventions and designated as belonging to the Program Objective
Categories of: (a) Poverty Alleviation and (b) Environmentally Sustainable Development.



- 15 -
E. Detailed Project Description
(1)    Sustainable Rural Development Component (US$23.6 million, 60.6 percent of
total cost)
2.11   This component would be implemented under MIDA's responsibility through two
sequenced actions: (a) training and equipping of public and private organizations, which
would in turn train and organize communities in the project area to diagnose their
development needs and prepare Community Action Plans (CAPs); and (b) implementing
the CAPs through community investments financed by MIDA through the proposed Fund
for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development (FUSARD). These actions are
summarized below and detailed in Annex A.
(a)   Institutional and community training, organization, and planning
(US$7.9 million). The project would finance training, technical assistance,
equipment and vehicles for MIDA, NGOs and rural communities. These
funds would be used for three activities: (i) training and rural
organization (US$3.2 million), which consists of (a) strengthening
MIDA's Department of Rural Development to be better prepared for its
supervisory and normative role in the implementation of this and other rural
development projects as it only recently has commenced dealing with small,
poor producers; (b) retraining and equipping of MIDA and NGO and other
Implementing Organization staff to carry out project activities; (c) training
and organizing communities, particularly in the area of participatory
community diagnostics and planning, the end result of which would be the
development of Community Action Plans'; (ii) technical assistance to
rural communities in production technology development (US$3.0
million); and (iii) production support (US$1.6 million) to prepare
subprojects identified in the CAPs to be presented to the FUSARD for
financing. In some cases sub-projects would be grouped together and
rationalized where appropriate in a Provincial Action Plan for such
subprojects as rural roads rehabilitation, reforestation schemes, nurseries,
soil conservation schemes, agro-industries, etc. The technical assistance
for subproject preparation would be procured from existing institutions as
needed (e.g., mini-irrigation, small scale agro-industries and marketing). In
certain technical areas, however, (e.g., smallholder technology) adequate
technical assistance is not available from existing institutions, and special
programs may have to be organized by the project to meet these needs.
These are described in paras 3.7 and 3.8, and the training program is
described in Document 5 in Annex H.
A Community Action Plan is a list of investment needs (subprojects) ranked according to a defined
development strategy, resources availability, and implementation possibilities.



- 16 -
(b)   Rural Subprojects through the Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and
Rural Development (FUSARD) (US$15.7 million). This demand-driven
fund, to be created within MIDA under the project, would finance-on a
matching grant basis- productive community investment activities (called
rural subprojects) developed in the CAPs. The beneficiary communities
would contribute a variable share-ranging from 10 to 30 percent- of the
cost of the subproject in kind and/or cash. The CAPs of one province
would be submitted to the Provincial Technical Committee (PTC) and
would be grouped where appropriate in the Provincial Action Plan. Some
subprojects, such as social infrastructure, would be submitted to the Social
Emergency Fund (FES), or other similar programs for financing. Other
subprojects, such as productive agriculture and related investments, would
be submitted to FUSARD. FES has gained considerable experience
rehabilitating rural roads. Thus, in the project area, FUSARD would
finance the rehabilitation of rural roads through the FES, who would
actually contract and supervise the works. While in most cases the
technical assistance for subproject preparation would be provided under the
institutional and community training subcomponent, for larger and/or more
complex feasibility studies, such as certain community irrigation schemes or
small-scale agro-industries, the study itself could be considered a
"subproject" for financing from FUSARD.
(2)   Biodiversity Conservation Component (total cost US$11.6 million, 29.8
percent of total cost; GEF US$8.1 million).
2.12  This component includes: (a) studies to prepare management plans for selected
priority biodiversity areas; related environmental impact assessments; and a public
information campaign with respect to these areas; (b) the design and implementation of
plans to promote the participation of the population living in these areas; (c) the provision
of training and technical assistance to INRENARE, beneficiaries and others in
environmental matters, subprojects to promote the sustainable use and conservation of
project areas to identify and monitor biodiversity threats to these areas. For the purposes
of implementation, this component would be divided into two subcomponents: (a) Pacific
Zone Protected Area Management and (b) Panama Atlantic Biological Corridor. The
Bank and GOP would finance INRENARE strengthening and the investments in the
protected areas outside the Panamanian portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
on the Atlantic side of the country, which total US$2.2 million. Investments in the
Atlantic Biological Corridor are still under preparation, and financing for these, totaling
US$8.1 million, is being requested from the Global Environmental Facility (see footnote,
para 2.05).
(a)   The Pacific Zone Protected Area Management Subcomponent (total
cost US$0.9 million; GEF: no contribution) would finance civil works,
equipment, consultant services, training, workshops, community
subprojects and operation and maintenance costs. Activities would



- 17-
include: (i) improved management of priority protected areas of national
importance in the Pacific Zone including Cerro Hoya National Park and the
Islas de Canias, Isla Iguana and Isla Taboga Wildlife Refuges through
investment in infrastructure (administrative/research/visitors centers), PA
perimeter land titling, equipment for administration and management
(radios, fire fighting, boats, office), (ii) training of protected area system's
personnel; (iii) management planning and implementation; (iv) community
outreach and environmental education; and (v) development of the PA's
ecotourism potential with involvement of local communities.
(b)   The Atlantic Biological Corridor Subcomponent (total cost US$10.8;
GEF US$7.9) is still under preparation (footnote, para 2.5). This
subcomponent would include: (i) Atlantic Biological Corridor (ABC)
Information and Planning includes: (a) supporting studies to integrate
the corridor into sectoral development planning and policies;
(b) elaboration and dissemination of corridor land use plans with and
among local stakeholders (at both the municipal and community levels);
(c) biodiversity monitoring to identify, monitor, and address threats to the
corridor and biodiversity; and (d) promotion, information dissemination
and awareness building, nationally and among communities in the region on
the ABC and biodiversity. (ii) Capacity Building For Biodiversity
Conservation and Sustainable Use for: (a) strengthening indigenous and
non-indigenous communities' capacity to monitor resource use and to
conserve and sustainably use biodiversity resources; (b) creating and
strengthening partnership mechanisms involving private sector, NGOs and
local governments/communities to enhance protection of priority areas,
land use planning and better land use practices; (c) upgrading management
norms on public lands in support of biodiversity conservation; and iv)
development of a revenue capture and financial management systems for
protected areas. (iii) Atlantic Biological Corridor (ABC) Investment
Program includes: (a) assisting indigenous communities in critical areas of
the corridor to regularize their access and usufruct of lands; (b) a grant
program for local biodiversity conservation and management activities,
targeted at incremental needs for conservation and protection of priority
areas in the corridor; and (c) strengthening management in priority
protected areas within the corridor in cooperation with local stakeholders.
(3)   Project Coordination Component (total cost US$3.7 million, 9.6 percent of
total; GEF US$0.2 million)
2.13   A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be set up to coordinate the
implementation of the two components. Most staff would be seconded from MIDA and
INRENARE, but approximately seven professionals would be hired where appropriate
skills are not available in the two institutions. The PCU would be provided with office
space, vehicles, equipment, funds for project management and related technical assistance



- 18 -
and services (e.g., audits, monitoring and evaluation, legal, policy and other studies), funds
for other operating costs, and funds for selected priority studies related to rural
development and natural resources management, including for the preparation of future
projects. The PCU would be responsible for managing the FUSARD through appropriate
intermediaries, as described in Annexes A and C.
F. Project Beneficiaries and Participation
2.14  The main project beneficiaries would be communities of rural poor in some of the
poorest corregimientos in Panama, principally in the Provinces of Herrera, Veraguas, and
Los Santos (IBRD Map No. 28338 and Table 1 in Annex A). In addition, many of the
communities in the PA buffer zones are in the extreme poverty category, many of them
indigenous. The project would directly benefit approximately 15,000 families or 75,000
people, assuming 5 people per family. This would be divided between the sustainable
development component directly covering 11,000 families or 55,000 people, and another
4,000 families or 20,000 people in the Biodiversity Conservation component. This
includes in the sustainable development component approximately 2,760 communities, of
which the project is expected to work directly with about 40 percent or 1,100.
2.15  There was a considerable amount of local participation in the preparation of the
project through participatory rural diagnostics and consultations carried out over a two
month period in the project areas, followed up by community visits by the specialist
consultants for a five month period. In addition, 10 formal workshops and seminars were
held with over 360 stakeholders including government, NGOs, foundations and other
national, regional and local level organizations operating in the project areas. In addition,
over 25 community level workshops were held, as well a large number of formal and
informal consultations with the public and private institutions that would be involved in
project implementation. Several of these consultations, diagnostics and information
sharing were held in indigenous communities; an indigenous peoples development plan
(IPDP) was completed (Annex D), and the results incorporated into the formulation of the
project. Training was provided to government officials in participatory diagnostics, which
they have continued to implement. This same participatory approach would continue to
be utilized during project implementation, with the collaboration of NGOs which would
operate in the project area. Further preparation is required to complete what would be the
proposal for Panama's contribution to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, included in
the Biodiversity Conservation component. In addition to preparing the overall corridor
strategy, review of the proposed protected area investments in light of the strategy, and
ongoing participation and consultation processes with stakeholders to ensure proper
design would be carried out.
G. Gender Aspects
2.16  In developing the communities' self-management capacity, special attention and
targeting would be used to promote women's active participation in the training,
organization, planning and subproject implementation. In addition, the project would



- 19 -
support women's groups, several of which are already being assisted by MIDA, and
promote the association of these groups to provide certain economies of scale (e.g.
marketing). To promote women's participation during the community training and
organization stage, two people from each community, a man and a woman, would be sent
to training centers to receive more intensive training which they would then apply in their
communities. Specific training would be provided to women who form part of mixed
groups, or all-women groups, in areas they request. According to the diagnostics carried
out during project preparation, the areas of greatest interest to women include project
management, basic accounting, food processing (agro-industries), medicinal plants and
marketing. Gender analysis aimed at ensuring greater women's participation would also
be one of the subproject selection criteria.
H. Indigenous Peoples Aspects
2.17  The indigenous populations are the poorest in Panama. The preparation of the
IPDP and the rural diagnostics provided the project's orientation towards implementing its
activities in indigenous lands (Annex D). Indigenous groups demonstrated considerable
interest in carrying out additional income generating productive activities, but not at the
expense of their culture, forms of government or traditions. The traditional local
organization structures/government would be utilized to channel assistance to implement
the training, organization and planning stages, as well as the implementation of the
subprojects. Where possible, activities would be carried out in local languages or dialects,
and activities would attempt to take advantage of their knowledge of natural resource use
and management. Particular areas of interest expressed by indigenous populations include
improved demarcation and legal recognition of their lands, agricultural techniques for
subsistence agriculture and sale of surpluses, handicrafts improvements and marketing,
medicinal plants marketing, and eco- and ethno-tourism. Women's groups would also be
encouraged and assisted (e.g., handicrafts, certain foodstuffs, medicinal plants). Project
staff working with indigenous people would be from the same ethnic groups where
possible.
I. Costs and Financing
2.18  Project Costs. Base costs are expressed in July 1996 values, and total costs are
estimated at US$39.0 million, including incremental recurrent costs, contingencies, duties
and taxes. Base costs are US$36. 1 million, and contingencies US$2.9 million, calculating
using applicable norms. The foreign exchange expenditures are estimated to be 14 percent
of total costs, or $5.3 million. Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated to be $1.2
million. The main expenditure categories include equipment, technical assistance, training
and studies, grants for subprojects, operating costs, vehicles and works. The costs are
summarized in Table I below, and detailed in Annex E.



- 20 -
Table 1. Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
%Foreign  % Total
Local Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs
A. Sustainable Rural Development
1. Institutional and Community Training,
Organization and Planning
a. Training and Rural Organization            2.4    0.6    3.0         20          8
b. Production Technology Development          2.6    0.2    2.8          8          8
c. Production Support                         1.2    0.3    1.5         19          4
Subtotal Institutional and Community Training,  6.3    1.1    7.4         15         21
Organization and Planning
2. Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural  14.6    0.0   14.6         -         40
Development
Subtotal Sustainable Rural Development         20.9    1.1   22.0          5         61
B. Biodiversity Conservation
1. Pacific Zone Protected Area Management       0.8    0.1    0.8          7          2
2. Atlantic Biological Corridor                 6.4    3.4    9.8         35         27
Subtotal Biodiversity Conservation              7.2    3.5   10.6         33         29
C. Project Coordinating Unit                    3.3    0.2    3.5          7         10
Total BASELINE COSTS                           31.3    4.9   36.1         13        100
Physical Contingencies                        0.1    0.1    0.3         50          1
Price Contingencies                           2.3    0.3    2.6         12          7
Total PROJECT COSTS                            33.7    5.3   39.0         14        108
2. 19  Project Financing. Table 2 shows project financing by components. The
Sustainable Rural Development Component would be financed by IBRD, communities and
GOP. The Biodiversity Conservation Component would be financed by IBRD,
communities, GEF, and GOP. The Project Coordinating Component would be financed
by IBRD, GEF and GOP. Overall this corresponds to each financier as follows: IBRD
$22.5 million (58 percent), which includes the refinancing of US$1.2 million from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), GOP $4.6 million (12 percent), GEF $8.1 million (21
percent), and communities $3.8 million (10 percent). IBRD financing would be in the
form of a variable-rate US dollar single currency loan based on Libor. GEF funding is
subject to GEF Council approval, which will be requested at the May 1997 Council
meeting, and approval by the Board of the Bank, scheduled for FY98.



- 21 -
Table 2. Components by Financiers
(US$ million)
IBRD         GEF'    Communities        GOP           Total
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
A. Sustainable Rural Development
1. Institutional and Community Training,
Organization and Planning
a. Training and Rural Organization       2.9  88.7       -    -       -    -    0.4  11.3    3.2  8.3
b. Production Technology Development      1.8  59.0      -    -       -    -    1.2  41.0    3.0  7.8
c. Production Support                    0.9  56.8       -    -       -    -    0.7  43.2    1.6  4.2
Subtotal Institutional and Community        5.6  70.7      -    -       -    -    2.3  29.3    7.9  20.3
Training, Organization and Planning
2.FundforSustainableAgriculturalandRural   11.6  73.5      -    -    3.4  21.5    0.8  5.0   15.7  40.3
Development
Subtotal Sustainable Rural Development     17.1  72.6      -    -    3.4  14.3    3.1  13.1   23.6  60.6
B. Biodiversity Conservation
1. Pacific Zone ProtectedAreaManagement    0.7  76.4       -    -    0.0  3.1    0.2  20.6    0.9  2.3
2. Atlantic Biological Corridor             1.8  17.0    7.9  73.0    0.4  4.0    0.6  6.0   10.8  27.6
Subtotal Biodiversity Conservation          2.5  21.5    7.9  67.4    0.5  3.9    0.8  7.1   11.6  29.8
C. Project Coordinating Unit               2.9  76.4    0.2  6.6        -    -    0.6  17.0    3.7  9.6
Total Costs                               22.5  57.7    8.1  20.8    3.8  9.8    4.6  11.7   39.0 100.0
8 Although conceptually and administratively part of the same project, the GEF grant (for the Atlantic
Biological Corridor) would be managed as a separate financial operation, with different timing,
documentation, legal agreements and supervision reports. The GEF activities are still under
preparation, and expected to be submitted for Board approval in FY98. The cost estimates presented of
GEF financed activities are therefore preliminary and may be changed during on-going preparation of
the component.



- 22 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementation Arrangements
3.1   Two institutions would be in charge of project implementation - MIDA for the
Sustainable Rural Development Component and INRENARE for the Biodiversity
Conservation Component. Each institution would, however, assist the other implement its
component (e.g., INRENARE would assist MIDA implement reforestation subprojects).
Both institutions would execute the project through a joint Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), which would be directed and supervised by a Technical and Operational
Coordination Council. The FUSARD would be managed by the PCU. Rural communities
would participate in the implementation of project activities though the Sustainable
Rural Development Committees (SDCs) established at the local community level.
Decision-making and technical support would be coordinated-at the corregimiento
level-by the Corregimiento Technical Committees (CTCs) and-at the provincial
level-by the Provincial Technical Committees (PTCs). Staff of MIDA, INRENARE
and municipal governments would be represented on the PTCs. The CTCs would produce
the Corregimiento Action Plans and, if appropriate, the PTCs would review them on
technical grounds and rationalize them before incorporating them into Provincial Action
Plans. The functions of these organizations are further detailed below and in Annex A.
3.2   Technical and Operational Coordination Council. The Council would advise
and monitor the execution of the project in order to promote project objectives, meet
annual operating plans, and establish proper use of project funds. It would include
representatives of the communities in the project areas, and representatives of the public
and private sector (local and regional NGOs). The council would be presided by the
Minister of MIDA or his designated representative. It would include the NAPAS
Director, a representative of MIPPE, three SDC representatives-one for each
Province-, a representative of the entrepreneurial private sector, and the Director of the
PCU who would act as the Council's Executive Secretary.
3.3   Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU would be responsible for the
proper functioning of the project and promoting its objectives. It would not implement
project actions directly, but rather coordinate and contract the execution to other public
and private implementing organizations. It would carry out two essential functions: First,
it would promote, through the contracting of appropriate institutions, the delivery of high
quality goods and services described in paras 2.12 and 2.13. In many cases, sufficient or
appropriate skills do not exist in local public or private institutions, thus appropriate
training must first be provided by the project. This is particularly relevant for the
Sustainable Rural Development component, and would thus meet one of the project's
objectives of institutional strengthening. Second, the PCU would monitor and evaluate
the performance of the above institutions to ensure project objectives are met, community
training and organization is completed, subprojects implemented as programmed, and
investments in the selected priority biodiversity areas appropriately completed. Public and
private institutions (paras 1. 15 and 1.16) would compete for the provision of most of the



- 23 -
services required. It was agreed at negotiations that the PCU would have staff of quality
and experience satisfactory to the Bank to carry out project activities. The satisfactory
establishment of the PCU and the Technical and Operational Coordination Council
would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
3.4   Administratively (Annex C) the PCU would be divided in two departments, one for
each component. The PCU and the Department of Sustainable Rural Development would
be located in the one of the three Provinces where that component would be implemented,
and the Department of Biodiversity Conservation would be located at INRENARE
Headquarters in Panama City, as the project activities are scattered throughout the
country. The Head of the Sustainable Rural Development Department would coordinate
with MIDA's staff in the region, many of whom would be seconded to the project. The
Head of the Biodiversity Conservation component would coordinate with INRENARE
regional directors in charge of the priority biodiversity areas the project would assist. The
implementation schedule for the Project is in Annex C. A Subsidiary Agreement between
Government and INRENARE acceptable to the Bank would be executed as a condition of
disbursement in respect of the Biodiversity Conservation Component. Because of the
difficulties of operating within the normal budgetary processes, Government requested
funds be handled by an external specialized executing agency such as UNDP or IICA. The
signing of an agency agreement for funds administration between Government and an
external executing agency, on terms acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
Loan effectiveness. Other financial/administrative functions would be carried out by the
PCU and similar arrangements are being used for on-going IDB and IFAD projects.
3.5   Community Organization. To produce the community diagnostics, action plans
and subprojects, the project would support the establishment of local community
Sustainable Rural Development Committees. These committees would be formed or
consolidated by bringing together the various community groupings (e.g., farmers,
women's groups, church groups and specific committees) to carry out their participatory
diagnostic with the objective of identifying bottlenecks and solutions to their
developmental and income generating possibilities. Given the large number of
communities the project would work with (1,100), it would not be feasible to have an
external promoter in each locality; instead each community would select two people, a
woman and a man, to be trained to carry out the training, diagnostic, and the preparation
of a Community Action Plan (CAP), with the help of specialists as required. They would
be provided with travel expenses, per diems and certain basic materials (paper, markers,
etc., used in the participatory methodologies).
3.6   Once the CAPs are prepared, they would be passed to the Corregimiento
Technical Committee for review, technical improvement, and, where appropriate,
rationalized (e.g., where there are repetitions of certain subprojects that are of a wider
geographic scope such as some possible agro-industrial and watershed subprojects) and
incorporated in a Provincial Action Plan. The CAPs would contain prioritized subprojects
and arrangements would be made through the PCU to send the necessary specialists to the



- 24 -
community to prepare the subprojects for submission for funding, be it to the project's
FUSARD or other sources of funding (e.g., FES).
3.7   Technical Assistance. The project would provide specialized technical assistance
as requested by the communities, for the preparation of their action plans and subprojects.
The diagnostics carried out during project preparation identified the two following areas
of greatest community interest for productive subprojects: production support, including
marketing, small agro and cottage industries, rehabilitation of rural roads, and micro-
irrigation; and production technology, principally by introducing new agricultural
technology through validation and extension, and reforestation. When technical assistance
is requested for the above, the services would be contracted from public or private
organizations through a competitive process. Limited amounts of pesticides would be
purchased under the project. A condition of disbursementsfor pesticides would be that
they be on an approved list ofpesticides, satisfactory to the Bank and based on the World
Health Organization categories I-A, I-B and II.
3.8   For the production technology services, as limited smallholder agricultural
technology generation and transfer experience exists in Panama, a different methodology
would be used to build-up technological options from on-farm validation trials carried out
with interested project area farmers. With the technical backing of IDIAP, which has
demonstrated interest in increasing its work with smallholders, and/or other local or
international institutions, small technical groups would be formed made up of, as required,
an agronomist, an agricultural economist, an animal production specialist, and a
sociologist. The team would present technological options developed in areas of similar
agro-ecological and social conditions in neighboring countries, or locally, where
experience or information exists. Those deemed by the particular community most suited
to their particular conditions, would be tried on-farm by interested producers in farmer
validation groups. Technical support would continue to be provided as producers further
adapted these technologies and are ready to try new ones. As more technological
experience becomes available, the extension can become more demand-driven, and local
farmers involved in the first trials can initiate cross-visit programs to other farmers, as this
has been shown in various parts of the world to be one of the most effective means of
transmitting information.
3.9   Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development (FUSARD).
Located in the PCU, FUSARD would be operated by a Fund Administrator, under the
directives of a small Board of Directors composed of six directors, appointed respectively
by MIDA, MIPPE, INRENARE, the NGO community, sub-national government bodies
and producers/community organizations. The Board would approve the Operational
Manual, and meet a few times a year to set operating guidelines, supervise performance,
and ensure proper use of funds. The operational management of FUSARD would be
carried out by the PCU, whose Coordinator would be responsible for FUSARD's overall
operation. Within the PCU, a small FUSARD administrative unit would be created, with
four basic staff (a unit director, an expert in monitoring and evaluation, a lawyer to draw
up the agreements with the communities and contractors, a disbursement expert, plus



- 25 -
support personnel). It is expected that only the unit head would be hired by the project;
the rest of the personnel would be seconded from MIDA. The subproject technical quality
control would be carried out by the Corregimiento Technical Committees, and, where
appropriate, Provincial Technical Committees, and checked by the FUSARD unit. Where
possible, FUSARD would channel funds through implementing organizations (e.g., NGOs,
Cooperatives, Government agencies), so as not to deal directly with the disbursement of
funds for the large number of subprojects expected to be generated. Just as NGOs and
other implementing organizations have played an important role in project preparation,
they would also be essential for project execution as only minimal direct implementation
by Government is envisioned. Criteria for the selection of these organizations would be
detailed in the Subproject Operation Manual.
3.10  Subproject Operational Manual. Eligibility criteria and the subproject cycle are
described in Annex A, and further detailed in the Operational Manual currently being
finalized by Government. A preliminary version of the Operational Manual, which
establishes the terms and conditions of grant administration, including technical,
environmental, and economic criteria, was agreed at negotiations, and the final version,
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursementsfor subprojects. If
Government wishes, for the final version, it may submit separate Operation Manuals for
the rural and biodiversity subprojects. An additional condition of disbursement for
subprojects is the signing of Subproject Agreements acceptable to the Bank with the
Implementing Organizations.
3.11  The subproject appraisal by FUSARD would take into account the level of
participation in the microplanning process, cost-effectiveness, poverty focus, and
technical, economic, social and environmental sustainability. In addition, the subproject
preparation would take into account gender analysis which would promote women's
contribution and benefits in the execution of the subprojects. When funding is approved,
FUSARD and the community's requesting Implementing Organization, would enter into a
contract. When a contractor is required (e.g., for infrastructure), the contract would also
involve the contractor. Once funds are disbursed, which may be in one or more tranches
depending on the size and complexity of the project, technical supervision would be
provided by the Implementing Organizations and MIDA, INRENARE, or other line
agency field staff. Rural roads subprojects would be financed by the project, but
channeled by the FES considering their considerable experience in this field. Other
subprojects requested by the communities that could be financed through other existing
programs/sources of funds (para 1. 15), particularly social infrastructure, would be
prepared by the project, and project staff would assist the communities make the requests
for financing at the other programs. This would assist the communities learn to deal with
other institutions. The use of funds would be closely controlled by the: (i) communities;
(ii) project (internal audit), (iii) the National Controllers Office, and (iv) annual external
audits. Most of this review would be ex-post to avoid excessive procedures that could
reduce agility in the preparation and implementation of subprojects.



- 26 -
3.12  Flow of funds. Project funds would be channeled through an international
external agent (such as UNDP or IICA) under an Agency Agreement for the provision of
administrative services. This agreement would be signed with the implementing agencies
(MIDA and INRENARE) and the selected external agent would provide the services of
fund administration, including signing of contracts with consultants and suppliers, but
without responsibility for project implementation, bidding processes, or consultant
selection. This mechanism, which has been requested by Government, is a common
practice in Panama to reduce the obstacles created by the cumbersome national
requirements on procurement, disbursements, accounting and auditing. The external agent
would be selected through standard consulting services procurement procedures. A
condition of Loan effectiveness would be the execution of the external Agency Agreement.
In the case of rural roads financed under FUSARD, the funds would be channeled through
FES, given its considerable experience in infrastructure subprojects. For other FUSARD
subprojects, the PCU would request the external agent to transfer funds to the executing
agency under the provision of an implementation agreement, whose models are defined in
the Subproject Operational Manual (see Figure 1 of Annex 1). GEF funds would be
channeled in the same way as IBRD financing. The possibility of using a special account
(SA) would be left as a possible option (para. 3.26).
3.13  Counterpart Funds. An assurance of the availability of timely counterpart
financing, which would total US$4.6 million, was obtained during negotiations. For
1997, as the budget was prepared before any legal document on the project was available,
it was not possible to create a budget item for the project. To reduce difficulties, the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF P306-0 PAN) has been approved to provide, among
other things, bridge financing before project effectiveness. If the project, as expected,
becomes effective in 1997, it would be necessary to create an extraordinary line item in the
1997 budget, which is fairly common in Panama.
B. Procurement
3.14 It was agreed at negotiations that procurement under the proposed Bank Loan
would be in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA
credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996) and as further described
below. Standard bidding documents agreed to by the Bank and the Government would be
used for the procurement of goods under National Competitive Bidding. The Bank would
finance civil works, vehicles, equipment, training, consulting services, grants for
subprojects, and incremental operating costs. Procurement arrangements are summarized
in Table 3.



- 27 -
Table 3. Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
International    Local
Competitive Competitive
Bidding     Bidding    Other  N.B.F.  Total
A. Civil Works /a                                   -         1.0      0.3      -       1.3
(0.2)    (0.1)           (0.2)
B. Equipment /b                                   0.9         0.6      0.4      -       1.8
(0.3)       (0.2)    (0.1)           (0.7)
C. Vehicles/c                                       -          -       1.4      -       1.4
(0.9)            (0.9)
D. Consultants and Technical Assistance /d          -          -         -      -      11.1
(5.1)
E. Training                                                     -     0.9       -       1.9
(0.7)            (1.3)
F. Rural Development and Biodiversity               -          -      10.2      -      15.2
Subprojects /e
(7.3)          (1 1. 1)
G. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries /f                                                  -     1.8      1.8
(0.1)    (0.1)
Operation and Maintenance                                      -       3.2    0.2       3.4
(1.9)   (0.0)    (1.9)
H. PPF                                              -           -      0.7      -       1.2
(0.7)            (1.2)
Total                                             0.9         1.5    17.1    2.0      39.0
(0.3)      (0.4)   (11.6)   (0.1)   (22.5)
Notes:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
a/ Three quotations procedure for small works, including mapping.
b/ Includes LIB ($0.2 million) and national/international shopping ($0.2 million).
c/ Vehicles to be procured by LIB.
d/ Services to be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by the World Bank
as Executing Agency (August 1981).
e/ Grants for Rural Development and Biodiversity.
f/ Salaries are not financed.
3.15    Works. Civil works would consist of rehabilitation of rural roads, rehabilitation of
buildings and facilities for office use and construction of small rural markets and protected
area infrastructure. To the extent possible, contracts would be grouped in packages
valued at more than US$250,000 and procured under NCB procedures. Small works
valued at less than US$250,000 would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified domestic contractors, up
to an aggregate amount of US$300,000.
3.16 Goods. The project would procure vehicles, motorcycles, computer equipment,
office equipment, furniture, communications equipment, laboratory and field equipment,
and educational material. Where possible, goods would be packaged into contracts valued
at US$150,000 or more to be procured under ICB procedures. Vehicles, motorcycles and
computer equipment would be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB)
procedures from suppliers with established maintenance and services facilities in Panama.



- 28 -
Other goods (office equipment, furniture, etc.) estimated to cost less US$25,000 or more
but less than US$150,000 per contract would be procured under NCB up to an aggregate
amount of US$500,000. Contracts for goods valued below US$25,000 would be
procured using national and international shopping, based on price quotations from at least
three bidders up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000.
3.17  Consultant Services and Technical Assistance. All consultant services would
be procured according to the guidelines, "Use of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981) ". Consulting,
training and studies under the project would consist of consultant assignments for
individuals and firms providing direct technical and implementation assistance to MIDA
and INRENARE, in, among others, training, land titling, promotion, subprojects,
establishment of community participatory structures and participatory planning, and
environment and land use planning and monitoring.
3.18  Rural Development and Biodiversity subprojects (Grants). The average size
of a community subproject is expected to be around US$20,000. Few subprojects are
expected to exceed US$50,000, which would be the normal maximum subproject cost. In
exceptional cases a maximum of US$100,000 would be allowed, subject to approval by
FUSARD's Board of Directors. Procurement for subprojects costing the equivalent of
US$10,000 or less and procured by local communities would be carried out mainly by
direct contracting, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.5 million. This procurement
procedure is proposed taking into consideration that most subprojects: (i) would be small
and it would be difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (ii) can be managed directly by
communities that would contribute to the work through the donation of unskilled labor
and local materials; (iii) would be selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary
communities to contribute to and physically supervise their execution; and (iv) would
provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role in the local development process.
3.19  Procurement by the communities under the subprojects would follow National
Shopping procedures for goods, and procedures acceptable to the Bank for procurement
of small works under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of price
quotations (under US$25,000). For details on FUSARD's operation, see Annex A.



- 29 -
Table 4. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ thousands)
.Category              Contract Value    Procurement Method           Contracts Subject to Prior Review
Civil Works         >US$250            NCB                         First 3 contracts
<US$250           Three quotations            None
...................................... ........................................... ........................................................ .... ................................. ...... ............. ...... ...............
Goods, Vehicles,
computers and
office equipment    >US$ 150           LIB                         All
Goods except        <US$150            NCB                         First 3 contracts
vehicles            <US$25             National/International      None
shopping
Consulting          >US$100            Selection according to      All
Services                               Consultant Guidelines
-Firms              <US$ 100                                       Review of TORs only. Other steps in
selection process are exempted from
prior review.
Individuals         >US$30                                         All
<US$30                                        Review of TORs only. Other steps in
selection process are exempted from
prior review.
Rural
Development and
Biodiversity        >US$25             NCB                         First three contracts
Subprojects
Goods and Works     <US$25             National                    None
shopping/community
procurement
Technical           <10,000            Direct contracting          None
Assistance          <25,000            Community Procurement       Review of TORs only.
3.20 Post review would be carried out for all other procurement by implementing
agencies and communities. For this purpose, both MIDA and INRENARE would recruit,
through the PCU, auditors, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.30
and 3.31), who would not only examine financial implementation, but also procurement
procedures, physical implementation and impact on beneficiaries. These auditors would
carry out annual audits on the basis of a sample not lower than 60 percent of the Bank's
financed investments in the first project year, 50 percent in the second project year and 40
percent in the remaining years. For convenience and to avoid overlap, the same auditors,
if their performance is satisfactory, would be eligible to carry out an ex-post review of the
expenditures and investments financed by the Bank.
3.21    Provisions in Legal Documents. An assessment by the Bank of Panama's
procurement procedures and regulations indicates that they are not fully compatible with
Bank Group procurement guidelines and policy. To resolve inconsistencies between local
legislation and Bank's procurement guidelines, during negotiations, agreement was
reached to include the following procurement provisions in the legal documents. 1. For



- 30 -
goods and works to be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures:
(i) bids may be submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening accompanied by bid
securities acceptable to the Bank, either by mail or by courier; (ii) the contract would not
be provisionally awarded at the bid opening session; (iii) no minimum number of bids
would be required to award a contract, (iv) contracts would be awarded to the lowest
evaluated bidder; and (v) after contract award, the amounts for performance securities
would be inform and amount specified in the bidding documents. In addition, for works
to be procured under NCB, contracts may provide for mobilization advances and price
adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank; 2. For consultants' services, foreign
consultants would not be required to: (i) be locally registered as a condition of
participation in the selection process; (ii) give any participation to local consultants;
(iii) furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax
status; and (iv) personally submit their proposals.
C. Disbursements
3.22  The IBRD loan has a five-year disbursement period and the Closing Date would be
June 30, 2002. (It is expected that the associated GEF grant would have also a five-year
disbursement period subject to GEF Council approval). There is no Standard
Disbursement Profile relevant to agriculture or natural resources projects in Panama, so
the country's overall disbursement profile has been used to estimate annual disbursements
(Annex E, Table 5).
3.23  The Loan would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures at the rates of:
(i) 80 percent for civil works; (ii) 100 percent for foreign supplied and 80 percent of
locally supplied machinery, equipment, vehicles, and furniture; (iii) 100 percent for
consultant services, training and studies; (iv) 100 percent of non-beneficiary financing of
grants for community subprojects; and iv) incremental recurrent costs on a declining basis
(90 percent first two years, 60 percent third and fourth years and 40 percent thereafter).
(Annex E, page 4).
3.24  Retroactive Financing. Agreed project activities after January 1, 1997 would be
eligible for retroactive financing, up to a maximum of US$2.0 million.
3.25  Documentation of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by the
Bank and amendments to contracts raising the value of such contracts above the prior
review limits (Table 4). For all other expenditures, training, grants and recurrent costs
disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) for which
supporting documents would be maintained by MIDA and INRENARE and would be
available to the Bank for review.
3.26 Special Account. At Government's request, an international external agent would
be contracted for procurement (para 3.12). However, should government wish to take
over procurement directly, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars could be opened in a



- 31 -
bank acceptable to IBRD, and would be managed by the PCU. The authorized allocation
in the SA would be US$1.4 million corresponding to about four months of average
expenditures under the project. The initial deposit would be US$500,000 and once total
disbursements have reached US$3.5 million, the Borrower may request the balance of the
authorized allocation to be released. The SA would be replenished monthly on the
Borrower's request (but no less frequently than every three months), or whenever one
third of the authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first.
3.27 Documentation. The PCU would be responsible for submitting regular
replenishment requests with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures under the
project. The documents would include: (i) a standard withdrawal application (Form
1903) for the total amount of eligible project expenditures to be replenished into the
international external agent's account or the Special Account with a copy of the monthly
bank statement for that account; (ii) Statement of Expenses (SOEs), for expenditures not
requiring documentation, including grants to communities; (iii) summary sheets for fully
documented expenditures (designed for each subproject and included in the disbursement
letter) with the supporting documentation for all expenditures above the procurement
prior review thresholds; and (iv) a reconciliation statement for the agent or the SA. The
use of grants by communities would be checked through technical and financial audits, the
monitoring systems and project and subproject supervision arrangements.
D. Accounts and Audits
3.28 Project Financial Statements and Financial Reporting. The PCU would be
responsible for preparing project financial statements including a statement of sources and
uses of funds, and a register of project assets or balance sheet where appropriate. The
funds flow statement would indicate sources (the Bank, GEF, as well as counterpart
financing) and expenditures in accordance with main project components and
disbursement categories. Project financial statements would show actual and pending
payments against those budgeted. Information on sources and uses of funds would be
provided monthly to the PCU. Information reported would also include the value of
contracts signed, i.e., commitments, relative to actual and pending payments.
3.29 MIDA and INRENARE would maintain separate records and accounts for project
expenditures as well as a register of assets purchased with project funds. They would also
have the responsibility for preparing the project's financial statements, including balance
sheets and sources and uses of funds statements, according to internationally accepted
accounting standards. MIDA and INRENARE would also receive technical assistance to
help establish accounting procedures acceptable to the Bank. Separate accounts would
be established for GEF and Bank funds.
3.30  Auditing. A process for selection of financial and technical auditors, their TORs,
and auditing arrangements, as described below, would be agreed with MIDA and
INRENARE during negotiations. The selection process includes pre-qualifying audit
firms, contracting auditors for one year with a provision to extend for a further two years



- 32 -
based on satisfactory performance. The process for selection of auditors would be
initiated during the PPF stage with the objective of having auditors in place by the start of
Loan disbursements. The PCU would contract audit firms to audit the consolidated
financial statements for the components of the project. Separate audits would be carried
out for GEF and Bank funds.
3.31   The auditors report would include audits of the external agent or the SA, an
opinion on the use of statement of expenditures (SOEs), confirmation that project
implementation was in accordance with provisions of the Loan Agreement and verification
of procurement transactions. The auditor's TORs would also include a review of internal
controls and preparation of a management letter. Audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The first audit reports would cover
the first year's disbursement as well as disbursements under the PPF.
3.32  Annual technical audits would be carried out separately and would consist of
checks of subprojects ensuring that what is purchased is in fact there and would include
assessments of whether resources were used efficiently or appropriately or any technical
issues worth analyzing. The methodology would include having an adequate sample of
subprojects selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank. The report of the
technical audit would be submitted to the Bank within two months of the end of the fiscal
year.
E. Status of Project Readiness
3.33  With the approval of a PPF for the project, and with RUTA's assistance,
Government has initiated the advertising of key positions for the PCU. It is expected
several members of the Project Preparation Unit would form part of the PCU, thus
providing for a smoother transition to implementation. The initiation of the project with a
pilot PPF stage would allow for a simpler start and provide the opportunity to apply the
learning curve. RUTA is also organizing a project management course for April 1997.
The Living Standards Measurements Survey, which was co-financed by project
preparation funds, would also provide detailed base-line information for the project. Thus
overall, considerable effort is going into initiating project activities in an organized, small
scale, pilot fashion, which should allow for a more rapid and effective project start-up
once the Loan is effective.
F. Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.34  Supervision. Day-to-day supervision of the project would be carried out by the
PCU with MIDA and INRENARE. IBRD and GOP would monitor the project's overall
progress during joint supervision missions, annual reviews and an Implementation
Completion Review.
3.35  Because of the large number of subprojects that would be financed under the
Sustainable Rural Development Component and to a lesser degree, the Biodiversity



- 33 -
Conservation Component, the demands for close supervision would be high, and funds
have been made available for the PCU to enable it to carry out these functions. There
would be four supervision mechanisms for activities carried out by the communities in the
project area: (i) by communities: the community level Sustainable Rural Development
Committee (SDC) would supervise implementation of their subprojects, supervising in
particular the execution carried out by contractors; (ii) by the Implementing Organizations
(e.g., NGOs): these would supervise subprojects executed by contractors implementing
subprojects on behalf of communities; (iii) by the PCU: project staff would supervise the
work of the communities, implementing organizations and contractors to assess whether
the Corregimiento Action Plans, the subproject preparation and implementation by
contractors with implementing organizations oversight, are carried out according to plan;
and (iv) for the supervision of funds use, four levels of control would exist: the
community, the project's internal audit, the annual external audits, and the National
Controllers Office.
3.36 Monitoring. Based on an Annual Operating Plan agreed with the Bank, the PCU,
with MIDA and INRENARE, would monitor overall project progress and provide
quarterly reports (for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December
31) to the Minister of MIPPE and IBRD. An outline for quarterly reports is included in
Annex F. Progress would be measured against the implementation indicators included in
that Annex. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that annual operating plans
would be agreed with the Bank, and monitoring reports would be furnished to IBRD no
more than 45 days after the completion of each quarter.
3.37  Project Launch Workshops. Upon project effectiveness, the Government,
through the PCU, would organize project launch workshops targeted at: (a) MIDA and
INRENARE; (b) community leaders at the local and provincial levels; (c) local NGO,
cooperative and other possible Implementing Organizations; and (c) other Government
agencies supporting the project. An initial project management workshop organized by
RUTA, would be implemented at the during in April 1997.
3.38  Supervision Missions. At least twice a year, GOP and IBRD would organize
joint project supervision missions. Project supervision would also provide implementation
assistance. Before each mission, G'P and IBRD would agree on the major subjects to be
supervised, which would include an evaluation of the project's progress based on the
Annual Operating Plan, monitoring indicators, compliance with legal covenants, and
procurement and financial management, as detailed in Annex F. At the conclusion of each
mission, the Bank would provide an Aide Memoire to GOP that would contain the
findings of the mission and recommendations.
3.39 Annual Reviews. Each year, GOP and IBRD would carry out an annual review.
Before such a review would take place, GOP and IBRD would agree on detailed TORs
and staffing of the review teams. These reviews would have elements of supervision and
may be combined with a supervision mission, but would focus more on project impact
(evaluation) and operational changes required to correct obstacles or bottlenecks to



- 34 -
meeting project objectives. The review would cover the status of such issues as follows,
which are further detailed in Annex F: (i) community participation and role of the project
and implementing organizations in promoting it; (ii) technical assistance and training
program for the project staff and communities; (iii) training of consultants and local
availability of trained consultants and Implementing Organizations; (iv) functioning of the
subproject cycle; and (v) infrastructure and management in the protected area system.
Following these reviews GOP would, within forty-five days of the review, draw up an
action plan, satisfactory to IBRD, to make adjustments in project implementation
wherever necessary and promptly carry out the plan. It was agreed at negotiations that
adjustments, if necessary, to project implementation plans, satisfactory to IBRD, would
be carried out forty-five days after annual reviews.
3.40 Implementation Completion Report. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that, not later than six months after the project closing date, GOP and IBRD
would carry out a joint project completion review and produce an Implementation
Completion Report. Following this review, GOP would present to EBRD a plan for the
future operation of the project, furnish the plan to IBRD for comments, and carry out the
plan taking into account IBRD's comments thereon.



- 35 -
IV. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Social Impact
4.1   It is expected the project would have a significant positive social impact on project
beneficiaries by providing them with improved economic opportunities both for the short
and long term. Their better management of natural resources, an environmental benefit,
would also yield social and economic benefits through improved living conditions from
more productive soils, forests and water sources. Perhaps the greatest and most lasting
benefit the project would provide, given the paternalistic approach to rural development
often adopted by governments in the past, would be to provide communities with the tools
and the practical experience in identifying their problems, analyzing their causes,
proposing solutions, preparing projects to implement the solutions, execute the projects
and monitor and evaluate their effectiveness. Training in this type of participatory
planning is remarkably enduring: in Honduras there are communities that continue to use
the technique up to ten years after it had been taught to them.
4.2  Direct benefits would accrue to approximately 75,000 people or 15,000 families in
the poverty areas and the buffer zones spread over more than 100 corregimientos.
Indirect effects would accrue to at least 30 percent more people, or another 25,000
(service providers, farmers and consumers that benefit from better local and regional
marketing facilities, communities outside the project area that benefit from improved
roads, watershed management, etc.). Land tenure regularization related to the protected
areas would not adversely affect farmers as Government has a policy against resettlement
of squatters who have lived in protected areas before their creation or for extended
periods of time. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that no involuntary
resettlement would be carried out under the project. This restriction has been reflected in
the legal documents and will be included in the project's Operational Manual.
4.3    Approximately 70 percent of the project area communities are below the poverty
line, and a significant number of these below the extreme poverty line. Although the
project would not finance labor, the subprojects would generate fuller or new employment
at low cost: e.g., the investments in agricultural technology would cost between $600 -
$2,500 per farm, which is significantly less than creating employment in micro or small
enterprises, estimated between $3,000 and $5,000. Total employment created cannot be
calculated for a demand-driven fund like the FUSARD, but indicative employment for
typical subprojects is estimated in Table 5.
4.4    Women's benefits would derive from the targeted project interventions aiming to
provide them with equal access to participation in the planning process, training,
specialized technical assistance, and investment funds. During project preparation, women
in the project area identified certain areas of greater economic/productive interest which
would be provided with specialized assistance (marketing, agro-industries, small livestock



- 36 -
raising, medicinal plant marketing, and marketable handicraft), but other areas would also
be attended as requested to provide them with the technical and financial tools to improve
their economic opportunities.
4.5   In those project areas where the indigenous populations are not being attended by
other on-going projects (e.g., the ongoing IFAD Ngobe-Bugle project which carries out
actions in some of the rural development areas), a special program outlined in the IPDP
and Annex D would provide project services to improve the situation of the indigenous
populations, among the poorest of the extreme poverty group. Initial emphasis would be
on improving the agricultural crop/livestock subsistence level of families, which in many
cases are below even a minimum acceptable level where malnutrition is prevalent. As a
second step, they would enter into or increase the production of marketable surpluses
including crops, livestock and handicrafts for which there is considerable demand. These
actions, carried out in accordance with indigenous governance and cultural values, is
expected to provide the tools for a longer term improvement in their living standards.
When there has been assistance to indigenous groups, it has been mostly through social
services delivered in the paternalistic fashion described before, and there has been little
emphasis on developing productive activities that this project would concentrate its
actions on.
B. Environmental and Economical Analysis
4.6   The project's direct environmental benefits are considerable, even ifjust the
Biodiversity Component is taken into account, which alone covers 913,000 ha,
corresponding to 52 percent of the NAPAS and 12 percent of the national territory. The
biodiversity represented is of national, regional and global importance. Regionally, the
Panamanian segment of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, including the Choco-
Darien Humid Tropical Broadleaf Forests and others of global importance, would be
protected. While it is difficult to quantify the various environmental benefits, for
illustrative effects, it has been done for the national benefits of soil conservation and
mangroves.
4.7   Soil Conservation. The Sustainable Development area contains approximately
650,000 ha of land under agricultural activity. It is estimated conservatively the project
would improve soil conservation measures under 12 percent of the area. Taken as a
weighted average of the soil losses that can realistically be expected under the above land
uses, the project can reduce losses by 62 percent, or 2.4 million tons of non-sustainable
soil losses/year which is valued annually at approximately $220,000 or an NPV of $1.6
million over 20 years.
4.8   Mangroves. Mangroves are highly productive ecosystems yielding fish, mollusks,
shrimp, wood, etc. Panama is no exception and they are highly valued. According to the
use given, these resources have been valued from US$700 to $10,000/ha. Mangroves are,
however, sensitive to contamination, including from excessive sedimentation carried by the
rivers that feed into the mangroves. The sustainable development component area on the



- 37 -
Pacific is upriver from the largest mangroves in Panama at Golfo de Montijo and Golfo de
Parrita. If it is assumed that the project's soil conservation and reforestation activities
would protect 20% of the mangrove's area (almost 7,000 ha) that would otherwise
disappear, and using the low value estimate, the 20 year NPV would equal $11.4 million.
4.9     Community subprojects. The largest component of the project is the demand
driven fund, the FUSARD, expected to benefit approximately 1,100 communities. It is
not possible to determine ahead of time for what type and in what quantity the totality of
the grant and counterpart community funds would be used. Nonetheless, the participatory
diagnostics carried out during project preparation, gave an idea of the sorts of productive
investments the communities are most interested in. Illustrative financial analysis was
carried out for 12 probable investments: timber species seed processing, nurseries (pine
and fruit), pine plantations (1 ha, and 4000 ha), Cedro plantations (1 ha), lumber, cheese,
coffee, and fruit processing plants, farm technologies, and two export crops. The results,
summarized below, and further detailed in Annex G, are positive, with rates of return
between 13 and 24 percent, and quantifiable benefit:cost ratios between 1.0 and 12.8. An
indicative distribution of investments from FUSARD is in Table 6 of Annex A,
Appendix 1.
Table 5. Analysis of Indicative Community Subprojects (US$)
Activity           Plant       Fixed Invest-  Average    Average     Man        IRR     NPV        Benefit
Capacity    ment          cost        Income      Days      (%)      (12%yr.)   Cost
Usage (%)                 p/yr. (USS)  Plyr.      p/yr. (No.)                   Ratio
Forestry 
Seeds Processing    20-70      5,810         2,490       5,460       433       22.1     2,716      1.36
Nursery           50-100       7,063         24,850      48,500      790       24.3    15,823      1.36
Pine Plantatn. (1ha)  n.a.     930           51          660         38         16.7     1,133     6.57
Cedar Plantatn(1 ha)  n.a.     930           930         577         38         13.8       467     12.73
Plantat. (4000 has.)*  n.a.    2,576,100     2,576,100    2,713,043    29,287   18.8    25,040     9.94
Apromindustry
Cheese processor    70-96      12,372        150,225     64,966      1,248     20.0    7,091       1.31
Coffee mill       55-75        26,604        53,186      157,265     624        12.5    2,178      1.03
Fruit processor   60-80        110,910       310,241     348,507     3,120      16.1    27,140     1.20
Wood               22-66       34,350        175,546     194,400     2,400      18.9    11,686     1.17
Agriculture
Technology-        n.a.        n.a.          746         1,113       109       49.0    1,290       1.48
Squash Prod. (1 ha)  n.a.      n.a.          619         1,000       61         n.a.     340       1.61
Otoe Prod. (1 ha)-"  n.a.      n.a.          581         1,000       52         n.a.      374      1.61
*t   4.000 ha is the total area estimated to be reforested by various subprojects
**   Framework for I ha. or production in crop succession (rice, corn, beans, and cassava)
***   Otoe is a vegetable produced for the local or export market. Both otoe and squash are annual crops, thus an [RR is not calculated.
4.10   In addition to the above quantifiable financial benefits, decentralized community or
municipal investments of the demand-driven nature have been shown to be more cost-
effective than centrally controlled investments, in terms of cost, completion time, and a
more efficient mix of local investments, which, because of local participation, are used
more often and better maintained. Other benefits are improved local decision-making by
communities, and higher productivity of farmers from training activities.



- 38 -
C. Sustainability
4.11   There are various dimensions to sustainability of the two main project components:
the community subprojects, related mostly to the Sustainable Development Component,
and the natural resource conservation and management, related mostly to the Biodiversity
Management Component.
4.12 The sustainability of the participatory community planning and subprojects is
expected because of the demand-driven participatory process that would allow the
communities to define their own priorities and be directly involved in their implementation,
use and maintenance, as opposed to previous government interventions where decisions
were made centrally and often did not adequately involve the communities. Proper
financial, environmental, social and management criteria would be used to assure
subproject viability. More important for the longer term, members of the communities
would be trained and have hands-on experience in identifying problems, defining solutions,
and implementing and maintaining them, as well as dealing directly and demanding more
of their government. If the methodology is successful, which it has proven to be in other
countries, it is possible the government, with Bank support, could expand this investment
methodology in Panama.
4.13   The sustainability of the PA system in the Pacific and the Biodiversity Corridor in
the Atlantic would be improved by four actions: (a) improving the management of the PA
system in INRENARE through intensive training, new management systems, and proper
equipping; (b) resolving the land tenure problems on the PA boundaries and within the
parks; (c) providing a source of income for the system, through park entrance and user
fees, thereby making it less dependent on the vagaries of the national budgetary process
and external donations; and iv) identifying financial means to capture a larger share of the
external benefits of biodiversity protection in Panama. In addition, the sustainability of the
Panamanian portion of the Mesoamerican Corridor would be assured by the above
investments to the protected areas, as well as an intensive environmental education
programs and a community demand-driven investment program in the areas outside the
protected areas which would encourage sustainable development consistent with corridor
protection.
4.14 Protected Areas Investments. At present, entrance fees to the protected areas are
not charged. INRENARE has considered changing this policy, in order to capture a larger
share of the internal and external or global benefits of biodiversity protection.
INRENARE would begin charging visitors once they have the infrastructure to receive
them. They would charge $2 to nationals, and $5 to foreign visitors. Rates for scientific
visitors are being studied considering longer stays, and the requirement for living, eating
and laboratory facilities which the project would also provide. This concept is not new in
Panama; the Smithsonian Institution charges visiting scientists fees for using their facilities
in protected areas. An analysis of four protected areas with the greatest potential -
Bastimento, La Amistad, Volcan Baruf, and Taboga - shows that operational costs, both
existing and incremental, can be covered by year eight assuming part of the investment



- 39 -
costs would be covered by the proposed GEF grant. This would guarantee the
sustainability of GEF supported investments.
D. Summary of Project Benefits
4.15  The project would yield two principal benefits: (a) creation of a capacity at the
community level to organize, self-diagnose problems, plan through participatory means,
seek out and negotiate assistance, and act in pursuit of resolving priority quality of life
issues. This community capacity has been shown to be remarkably enduring, generally
well beyond an expected project completion period; and (b) promotion of the long-term
conservation and sustainable use of Panama's unique biodiversity resources. The first
benefit would be achieved in one region of the country, and if successful could be
expanded nationally; the second would cover most of the protected areas and the
Panamanian portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor not assisted by other
donors. The quantifiable benefits are considerable: approximately 75,000 people would be
directly benefited, most of whom live in poverty, and another 25,000 indirectly, covering
approximately 1,100 communities in the Sustainable Rural Development Component.
Moreover, over 910,000 ha of protected areas would be strengthened, and an even larger
area (the Panamanian portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor) managed in a
more sustainable fashion.
E. Project Risks
4.16 Three main risks are foreseen. One is the risk of continuing deforestation and
natural resource degradation in the project areas. The basic premise of the project itself
points towards reducing this problem, by (a) reducing the root causes of out-migration
from poverty areas to protected areas; (b) carrying out environmentally sustainable and
productive activities in the buffer zones of the protected areas that would make the
surrounding communities more conscious of the benefits to them and the country of
conserving the protected areas; and (c) carrying out land titling on private properties that
border the protected areas, thereby more clearly establishing tenure and thus promoting
sustainable use.
4.17  Another risk is whether the institutional capacity is adequate to execute the
project. Both MIDA and INRENARE have recognized their weaknesses in this respect
and during project preparation an intensive training program has been drawn up to deal
with this. In addition, training would be provided to private organizations that would
assist in project implementation. Recognizing their responsibility to small as well as to
medium and large farmers, MIDA has recently begun working with small farmers,
initiating several small farmer projects using Government budgetary funds as well as funds
from international donors.
4.18  Inadequate counterpart funding has been a risk in many countries, and efforts have
been made to reduce this risk in this project by focusing on high priority areas, and limiting
many project activities to a pilot phase. Community cofinancing of subprojects reduces



- 40 -
the Government counterpart financing requirement for the project and growing entrance
and user fees for protected areas would over time reduce budgetary requirements
associated with project objectives, as would carbon sequestration agreements, if they are
implemented in the future. In addition, Government's decision to use the Project
Preparation Facility prior to Bank approval of the full loan is an indication of the high
priority it attaches to the project.



- 41 -
V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS, LOAN CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Assurances obtained at negotiations:
(a)   The PCU would have staff of quality and experience acceptable to the
Bank to carry out project activities (para. 3.3).
(b)   Counterpart funds would be provided on a timely basis (para. 3.13).
(c)   Procurement, including the recruitment of consultants, would be carried
out as described in Chapter 3.
(d)   Disbursements would be carried out as described in Chapter 3.
(e)   Quarterly, Annual, Audit and Project Implementation Completion
Reporting would be carried out as described in Chapter 3.
(f)    Annual Operating Plans would be carried out as described in para. 3.36 and
Annex F.
(g)   No involuntary resettlement would be carried out under the project, and
this restriction would be included in the Operational Manual (para 4.2).
5.2   Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   Establishment of the Project Coordinating Unit with staff with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank and the PCU's
Technical and Operational Coordination Council (para 3.3).
(b)   Signing of an Agency Agreement for funds administration between
Government and an international external agency on terms acceptable to
the Bank (para 3.4).
5.3   Conditions of disbursement:
(a)   For disbursement of the Biodiversity Conservation Component, signing a
Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to the Bank between Government and
INRENARE (para 3.4).
(b)   For disbursements of pesticides, that they be included in a list agreed with
the Bank (para 3.7).
(c)   For disbursement for rural subprojects: approval of the respective
Operational Manual, and signing of Subproject Agreements with the
Implementing Organizations (para 3.10), both satisfactory to the Bank.



- 42 -
(d)   For disbursement for biodiversity subprojects, approval of the respective
Operational Manual (para 3. 10).
Recommendation
5.4   Based on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IBRD loan of US$22.5
million to the Republic of Panama.



- 43 -
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
ANNEXES AND MAPS
Annexes
A - Sustainable Rural Development Component
Figure 1: FUSARD Flow of Funds
Appendix 1: Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development (FUSARD)
B - Biodiversity Conservation Component
Table 1: National Protected Area System - By Category
Table 2: National Protected Area System - Detail
Table 3: Preliminary Proposal of Protected Areas For Strengthening Under Mesoamerican
Corridor Sub-Component
Appendix 1: Land Titling
C - Project Organization, Administration and Coordination
Figure 1: Functional Organogram of the Project
Figure 2: Project Implementation Schedule
D - Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
E - Estimated Costs, Financing and Disbursements
Table 1: Components Project Cost Summary
Table 2: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sumnmary
Table 3: Project Component by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
Table 4: Expenditure Accounts by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
Table 5: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
Table 6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 7: Estimated Disbursements
F - Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation and Reporting
Appendix 1: Financial Indicators
Appendix 2: Status of Legal Covenants
Appendix 3: Key Performance Indicators
Appendix 4: Project Impact Indicators
G - Economic Analysis of Community Subprojects and Protected Areas
Table 1: Analysis of Indicative Community Subproject
Table 2: Financial Analysis for Four Protected Areas (Option A)
Table 3: Financial Analysis for Four Protected Areas (Option B)
Table 4: Protected Areas
Table 5: Financial Analysis, Isla Bastimentos Marine Park
H - Documents in the Project File
MADS
IBRD No. 28335  Transportation and Relief
IBRD No. 28336  Forest Cover and Atlantic Biological Corridor
IBRD No. 28337  Protected Areas
IBRD No. 28338  Rural Development Component
IBRD No. 28339  Darien Province
IBRD No. 28508  Poverty in Panama
P-SAR-B2.DOC






ANNEX A
Page 1 of 18
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Sustainable Rural Development Component
1.    This component is divided in two: (i) the training and organization of communities
into Sustainable Development Communities to undertake communal planning including:
diagnosis of community development bottlenecks, followed by a Community Action Plan
(CAP), and then specific investments or subprojects that would operationalize the CAP.
The CAPs from all the Sustainable Development Communities would be combined at the
corregimiento and provincial levels; and (ii) the implementation of prioritized subprojects
which will be financed by the Fund for Sustainable Agricultural Rural Development
(FUSARD). Some of the subprojects would also be financed by other funding sources,
where available, such as the FES or PROINLO programs (see Chapter 1). This Annex
covers the technical support services the project would provide to the communities, and in
Appendix 1, FUSARD's operation which also includes details of the community training
and organization methodologies.
Community Organization
2.    Before the communities receive project staff, this staff must be properly trained in
community planning and organization skills. This personnel would include reassigned
MIDA staff, and contracted NGO and local organizations (e.g., producer organizations,
cooperatives) staff. They would receive training in participatory communal diagnosis,
planning and project formulation. This would be complemented with related skills training
including group dynamics, negotiations and leadership skills. Not all staff would necessarily
have the ability to become communal promoters and carry out these functions; instead they
could be assigned one of the more specific technical skills. These technical staff (see below)
would also receive refresher courses and more in depth training where necessary. Full
details of the training program for staff and communities is in Document 5 of Annex H.
3.    At the community level, to form the Sustainable Rural Development Committees
(SDC) which would carry out the community planning described above, the community
promoter would begin by describing the project and its objectives; carrying out an inventory
of all the formal and informal groups in the community including youth groups (e.g.,
women's, church, education, producers, marketing, road); integrating these groups into a
SDC; choosing two community representatives - a woman and a man - which would be sent
to specialized centers for training in communal planning, they would return to initiate the
participatory planning process in the community, with the specialized technical assistance of
project staff as needed.



ANNEX A
Page 2 of 18
4.    It is estimated that during the project period, 220 SDCs would be formed, to
organize 11,000 families for an estimated population of 55,000 people. 440 community
representatives would be trained. This process would cost approximately $2.2 million,
divided as follows: $1.27 million to form the 220 SDCs ($5,800 each) which includes
training, technical assistance, and related logistical support. Community promoter training
(project staff) would cost $78,000, community representatives $194,000, and technical
assistance to the communities $651,OOOmn.
Specialized Technical Assistance
5.    In the community diagnostics carried out during project preparation, most
communities identified the following areas of greatest interest for the purpose of developing
productive projects: production technology: agricultural technology, mini-irrigation, social
reforestation; and production support: marketing, agroindustries, rehabilitation of rural
roads. Other areas of interest were also identified, which could also be attended by the
project as all subprojects identified would be demand-driven. As the above were the most
commonly requested, specialized technical assistance delivery and possible solutions are
described below. The implementation of this assistance would be through subproject
(FUSARD or other) financing.
Production Technology
6.    Agricultural and Agroforestry Production Systems. The objective would be to
facilitate the process of the adoption of agricultural and agroforestry technologies, tailored
to the economic, natural resource, labor, and land possibilities of the producer and his
family. This area of assistance starts off with a major disadvantage which is that Panama
has not adequately developed smallholder technology: formal Government research has
emphasized only commercial agriculture for medium and large farmers. The following is the
methodology the project would utilize at least initially, to introduce smallholder
technologies, while sufficient appropriate technological options become available from
project activities.
7.    First, the Sustainable Development Component project area was divided into three
principle agroecological zones to determine possible technologies that could be introduced.
Second, a typology of the producers was carried out to determine their possibilities for
technology adoption (e.g. subsistence, subsistence and marketable surplus, mostly surplus).
Third, technologies developed for regions ecologically and socially similar in neighboring
countries were explored to determine suitability and possible adaptability to the project
area. Fourth, the Agricultural Research Institute (IDIAP) has expressed interest in
supporting smallholder research, even if they were unable to carry out all the investigation
themselves. They, or another national or international institute, would therefore provide
technical support to this technology validation and extension proposal. Fifth, to deliver the
services to the field, the following logistical set-up would be utilized.



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 18
8.    Communities that express interest in adopting new production technologies would
receive the assistance from small multidisciplinary technical groups made up of an
agronomist, an animal production specialist, an agricultural economist, and a sociologist.
The team would present technical options, and those deemed by the particular community
to be suited to their particular conditions would be tried on-farm by interested producers
through validation trials. Technical support would continue to be provided as producers
adapted the technologies and become ready to try new ones. As proven technologies are
developed, farmer to farmer extension would be encouraged. Details of the technical
options proposed for different level producers are in the Document No. 3 of the Project File
(Annex H). It is estimated these technologies would cover a majority of the families in the
project area, and costs are estimated at $6.15 million, of which $3.3mn would be used for
technical assistance, training, the costs of the technical specialists, and logistics support. The
actual subprojects implemented by the producers would total $2.86 million which would
cover the costs of purchased inputs for the first one or two years to reduce the risks
associated with technology adoption. The project would cover these costs because families
in poverty are often unwilling to try new technologies because their fragile finances are
unable to suffer losses from crop failures for even one year, even though only a portion of
the farm would be utilized to try the new technologies.
9.    Mini-irrigation schemes. The objective is to increase productivity and increase
crop diversification by extending the growing reason and reducing risk. These schemes
would be set up in those communities that express interest, and where water is available at a
relatively low cost (e.g. does not come from deep pump wells). Emphasis would be on
producing for surplus/markets (local and export), rather than for subsistence, as this would
be the only way to cover irrigation installation, operating and maintenance costs.
10.   Grouped individual producers forming community projects of up to 10 ha would be
assisted, as well as individual plots, though the assistance provided by the project to each
would vary. The community projects would be assisted with technical assistance for the
design and with purchased inputs, whereas the individual plots would be provided with only
technical assistance. MIDA's Department of Rural Engineering would assist the smaller
projects, whereas the larger ones could be covered by private firms. With an estimated 50
projects of lOha, and 100 of 1 ha, the total costs are $0.5mn divided between technical
assistance, inputs, and labor costs.
11.   Community Reforestation. The objective would be to reforest soils with little or no
agricultural potential for the medium and long term economic and environmental benefit of
small farmers. This would be carried out mainly, but not exclusively, in communities that
are already convinced of the benefits of reforestation through earlier reforestation schemes
initiated in the 1 970s. Some are being harvested now and the communities are receiving the
benefits from these harvests. Several schemes would be assisted: (i) timber seed processing
facilities, particularly for pine, but also native species appropriate for the area. Panama
imports a large percentage of its seed requirements, when this could be procured locally; (ii)
commercial nurseries to provide the interested communities and commercial reforesters



ANNEX A
Page 4 of 18
with seedlings grown utilizing improved technologies (e.g., root trainers). In addition, fruit
trees would also be raised for sale; (iii) reforestation schemes for individual and collective
farms; and (iv) small portable saw mills. INRENARE would provide the technical criteria
and assistance for the timber reforestation, while MIDA for the fruit trees.
12.   Estimated demand is 3 seed processing facilities owned by 10 families each, 9
commercial nurseries, owned by approximately 45 families each which would produce
about 250,000 trees each, and reforest about 6,000 ha of which 2,000 would be with native
species, and 4,000 ha in pine, benefiting 5,000 families. Total estimated costs of this sub-
component are $1.5 million, of which $22,000 would be used for training and the rest to
finance reforestation subprojects, principally purchased inputs.
Production Support
13.   Marketing. This is seen as a crucial aspect of income generation as the market
drives the financial viability of increased production. Several actions would be promoted: (i)
strengthening public and private institutions related to the provision of this service,
including for market price information, market intelligence, contracts with buyers,
increasing supply by bringing together various producing communities; (ii) strengthening
the managerial capacity of farmers marketing groups in such skills as management,
negotiations, legal aspects, and accounting; (iii) promoting farmers markets in regional and
subregional towns and cities, which is a proven way to increase prices to farmers if
appropriate access to the towns is available (as well as adequate roads to get to market);
and (iv) assisting provincial municipal markets, which are often an important bottleneck to
increasing flows of products to local and national markets.
14.   It is estimated 40 producer marketing groups would have been trained and another
100 formed; 90 farmers markets assisted and created; five subregional market centers
improved or built; and improved layout and operating plans would be developed for most of
the provincial markets, including improved administration. This would cost an estimated
$1.72 million, of which $81,000 would be utilized for technical assistance, and the rest for
investment sub-projects.
15.   Cottage Agroindustries. The objective is to increase value added at the local level,
increase farmers income, and promote improved links with the marketing channels.
Significant training is required for these projects as these tend to be more complex, dealing
with production, collection, processing, storing, and marketing of products. Criteria for
approval of these subprojects would therefore be more demanding. Specialized technical
assistance for management, technical aspects and marketing would most likely be required
as part of subproject financing. Previous successful experience would be an important asset.
Individual ownership, possibly a more successful form of management than community,
would be assisted as well, although not with purchased assets. The establishment of
agroindustries would be on a sub-regional or regional basis to avoid duplication.



ANNEX A
Page 5 of 18
16.   It is estimated 80 pre-investment studies would be completed ($2,000 each), 35
community level ones actually set up and running ($15,000 each), 6 regional agroindustries
(up to $100,000), and 6 small saw mills for the communities which have mature
reforestation schemes ($60,000 each), for a total cost of $ 1.96 million.
17.   Rural Roads Rehabilitafion. The objective is to improve roads to improve access
to social services, markets, and create employment. Given the generally low financial
viability of major rehabilitation of feeder roads for small rural communities, a system of
spot improvements would be utilized to eliminate bottlenecks and increase the average
speed at which vehicles can drive. These improvements include drainage, small bridges,
cover material improvement, and reducing slopes. The communities would be responsible
for maintenance through a "community road worker" who would eliminate smaller
problems such as pot holes, drainage problems, etc.
18.   Approximately 400 kms. would be rehabilitated, which represents about 30% of
feeder roads in the project area. Funds for this sub-component would be provided by the
FUSARD, but actually implemented by the FES which has considerable experience in this
field. The indicative estimate is $5.8 million, including $162,000 for the FES's supervisory
role, and the rest for subproject implementation.



ANNEX A
Page 6 of 18
Appendix 1
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development
(FUISARD)
1.    The Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development (FUSARD) would be
the mechanism responsible for financing-on a matching grant basis-rural development
activities and investments subprojects. FUSARD would be a financial intermediary,
involved with different levels of responsibility in subproject selection, appraisal, approval,
implementation, disbursement, technical follow-up, monitoring, and evaluation. It would be
located in the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) under the Rural Development Department.
On Government's request, to increase agility in the use of project resources, the funds
would be controlled by an external administrative agent such as UNDP or IICA (see Figure
1).
2.    FUSARD would have a Board composed of six Directors, representing MIDA,
MIPPE, and INRENARE, the NGO's, the municipalities and the communities. This Board
would approve the FUSARD Operational Manual and meet a on a regular basis, to take
strategic decisions, and approve subprojects with total cost above US$20,000 (see Table 1),
but would not be involved in day-to-day decision making. The operational management of
FUSARD would be carried out by the PCU, whose Director would be responsible for the
funds' overall operation. A Fund Administrator would be hired for the day-to-day
operations, and would be responsible for its administration and operation.
3.    Eligibility criteria for subprojects are detailed in the Operational Manual, of which
a draft has already been discussed with different stakeholders, and are based on the
following principles: (i) focus on a specific geographical area (see Table 2) and target
group, which is defined as peasant families associated in communities or productive groups,
and with a limited access to resources and services; (ii) selection through participatory
demand-driven mechanisms; (iii) possibility to be managed by beneficiaries or the designated
executing agencies; and (iv) technical, economic, social, and environmental feasibility and
sustainability.
Table 1. Subproject Approval Thresholds
Estimated Total Cost         Institution in charge of Final Approval
of the Subproject
<US$5,000        Corregimiento Technical Committee (CTC)
US$5,000-20,000     Provincial Technical Committee (PTC)
US$20,000-50,000    FUSARD Board of Directors
US$50,000-100,000   No-objection of the World Bank



ANNEX A
Page 7 of 18
Appendix I
Table 2. Project Area (FUSARD and Sustainable Rural Development Component)
:Corregim4entoA    ! Populatiom   Poverty*   #  Co,retimhntoA         Populhtim . Povertv*
.. .    e   :.1  :                                 .:......................... . .  1    tIndicator
Calobre District                                  Montijo District
1 Monjaras                      580       52.00  34 Arenas                       1,459      25.22
2 San Jose                      649        0.00  35 Gobernadora                  1,785      34.75
3 Barnizal                      521       23.47  36 La Garceana                   382        0.00
4 El Cocla                      608       36.13  37 Leones                        284        3.84
5 El Potrero                    687       51.98  38 Llano de Catival            2,052       14.06
6 La Laguna                   1,033       54.01  39 Quebro                       1,050       9.60
Caiiazas District                 40 Tebario (Mariato)             615       30.06
7 Agua de Salud               3,032L       0.00                    Ocu District
8 Cerro Plata                 3,5631      27.15  41 Cerro Largo                 2,121        0.00
La Mesa District                  42 Los Llanos                   3,166      28.81
9 Bisvalles                   2,370       54.94                Rio de Jesus District
10 Bor6                        2,158        0.00  43 Cabecera                    3,602       45.38
11 LLano Grande                  776       18.17  44 Las Huacas                   1,044       0.00
12 San Bartolo                 2,411      23.01  45 Utira                          393       42.96
Las Minas District                               San Francisco District
13 Chepo                       1,457        0.00  46 Panamaes                      416       58.46
14 El Toro                     1,073       12.16  47 Los Hatillos                 1,472       0.00
15 Leones                      1,193       24.31  48 Romance                      1,806      25.34
16 Quebradadel Rosario         2,090       15.16  49 San Juan                    3,797       18.81
Las Palmas District                                  Sonii District
17 Zapatillo                   1,521      39.23  50 El Marafn6n           |      2,126       28.64
18 Cerro de Casa               2,465        0.00  51 Guarumal                    3,726       54.60
19 El Piro                     2,099       34.62  52 La Soledad                   1,589      37.62
20 El Prado                    4,971       19.22  53 Quebarada de Oro             1,037}     25.27
21 ElRinc6n                    2,118       44.53  54 Rio Grande                   3,3051     46.06
Los Pozos District                 55 Rodeo Viejo                 2,558        3.30
22 Capuri                        458       23.22  56 Bahia Honda                  1,297       9.45
23 ElCedro                       543       32.13  57 Cativ|                       1,296|      0.00
24 La Pitaloza                 1,656       18.03                  Santa Fe District
25 Los Cerros de Paja          1,0751       0.00  58 El Alto                      2,242      49.37
Macaracas District                 59 El Cuay                      1,558      16.26
26 Bahia Honda                   648       26.72  60 Gatuncito _                  1,670       0.00
27 Mogoll6n                      359        0.00  61 Calidonia                    1.805       14.14
28|Bajos de Guera                897       21.58     T 0 T A               _    95,224|
29 Corozal                       591       33.22
30|El Cedro                      461       51.91
31 Espino Amarillo               254       13.471
32 La Mesa                       675       50.411
33 Las Palmas                    579       31.20 |
Notes:  ^ Corregimiento is the administrative subdivision of a district.
* The poverty indicator is a weighted average of health, education, and household indexes. Zero
represents the worst situation, and 100 represents the best situation.



ANNEX A
Page 8 of 18
Appendix 1
4.    FUSARD would finance subprojects up to a maximum total cost of US$ 100,000
each. The subprojects would be selected and prioritized according to participatory demand-
driven mechanisms carried out through committees at community, corregzmiento,
provincial, and national levels, according to the thresholds of Table 1. The FUSARD
administrator in the PCU will always be responsible that the approved subprojects respects
the rules established in the FUSARD Operational Manual. The SDC would combine the
Community Action Plans (CAP' s) and design a strategy at corregimiento level according to
pre- set budgetary limits (FUSARD indicative budgetary allocations by district are shown in
Table 3). With an equity objective, an annual limit of US$800 per beneficiary would be
enforced, subject to review over time considering overall FUSARD expenditure.
Table 3. FUSARD - Indicative Allocations by District'
(US$)
District    Year I    YearII    Year m    Year IV    Year V       Total
Calobre         76,308    152,615    248,000    295,692    181,231    953,845
Cafiazas        65,004    130,008    211,264    251,891    154,385    812,553
La Mesa         90,100    180,200    292,825    349,137    213,987  1,126,250
Las Minas       87,528    175,057    284,468    339,173    207,880  1,094,106
Las Palmas     130,018    260,036    422,558    503,820    308,793  1,625,224
Los Pozos       68,949    137,897    224,083    267,176    163,753    861,857
Macaracas      112,033    224,067    364,108    434,129    266,079  1,400,417
Montijo        128,371    256,742    417,206    497,438    304,881  1,604,638
Ocu             58,954    117,908    191,601    228,447    140,016    736,925
Rio de Jesiis   57,995    115,989    188,482   224,729    137,737    724,932
Sn Fco          87,281    174,561    283,662    338,212    207,291  1,091,007
Sond           186,897    373,793    607,414    724,224    443,879  2,336,208
Sta Fe          90,563    181,126    294,330    350,931    215,087  1,132,037
Total        1,240,000  2,480,000  4,030,000  4,805,000  2,945,000 15,500,000
Per capita          13        26         42         50         31        163
average
5.    The type of subprojects to be financed by FUSARD would concentrate on
productive investments with the objective of sustainable rural poverty alleviation. A list of
possible subprojects includes: (i) production support including basic infrastructure, such as
access/feeder road rehabilitation, bridges, small irrigation schemes, rural markets, and crop
storage structures; (ii) production technology, such as technical assistance and extension to
farmers, revolving funds, small agro and cottage industries, and selected farm inputs;
These allocations were calculated using a mathematical formula which estimates the needs
by district/corregimiento according to the following indicators and weights: population
30%, poverty 50%, and number of communities 20%. The total of $15.5 million is
indicative. In addition, INRENARE would have access to US$400,000 for subprojects in
the Biodiversity Conservation Component.



ANNEX A
Page 9 of 18
Appendix 1
(iii) environmental investments, such as land improvement and drainage subprojects,
watershed management, agro-forestry, and eco-tourism; and (iv) institutional strengthening
for executing agencies and communities, and pre-investment studies2
6.    A measure characteristically used to ensure ownership is beneficiaries' participation
in subproject finance which they can contribute in labor, cash or kind, between 10 and 30
percent of the subproject costs (see Table 4). These differences in cofinancing contributions
have been designed as an incentive for environmental subprojects.
Table 4. Cofinancing Matrix
Type of Subproject       FUSARD              Beneficiary
Contribution        Contribution
(%)                 (%)
Infrastructure              70                   30
Technology services         80                   20
Environment                 90                    10
Institutional               70                   30
Strengthening
Pre-investment              90                   10
studies
7.    Executing Agencies. FUSARD would have the possibility to channel financial
resources through Implementing Organizations (1Os), such as NGOs, cooperatives, farmer
associations, and, in case of need, Government agencies. The 10 must meet FUSARD
eligibility criteria detailed in the Operational Manual which include technical and financial
capabilities and experience with the beneficiary community and region. The 10 can be a
public or private institution, with legal status, capable of implementing investment
subprojects. The 10 would accompany local communities through the Participatory
Microplanning process, and from project conceptualization to implementation (see below).
IOs would help the communities identify and rank investment needs, formulate Community
Action Plans and present the investment needs to the appropriate funding agencies for
consideration. IOs would be primarily drawn from local NGOs and producer organizations.
2     When the pre-investment studies themselves are sufficiently complex to be treated as
subprojects.



ANNEX A
Page 10 of 18
Appendix I
Figure I - FUSARD Flow of Funds
a                World Bank
Project Coordinating    c    External Administrative      Counterpart Funding
1   Unit (FUSARD)                  Agent          +   (Finance and Planning
Unit (FUSARD)                     Agent                      Ministry)
Executing Agenci
Financial Intermediaries
Province Technical
Committees (PTCs)         _
Corregimiento Technical
Committees (CTCs)
Subprojects .
Notes:
Flow of Funds
Flow of Decision/Approval
a    =     withdrawal applications
b    =     submission/approval of subproject proposals
c          order to transfer funds to executing agency/financial internediary
8.    Participatory Microplanning. This is a process designed to seek the active
participation of the rural population in planning, design, negotiation, execution and
supervision of rural investments. Participatory Microplanning is designed to facilitate
community and grassroots organizations to be effective players in their own development.
The objectives of this planning process are to: (i) contribute to the decentralization of
decision-making; (ii) stimulate grassroots participation in local planning and demand



ANNEX A
Page 11 of 18
Appendix 1
generation; (iii) help rural communities formulate investment strategies and development
plans; and (iv) increase investment sustainability by intensifying stakeholders' commitment in
the execution and supervision of rural investments.
9.    The Participatory Microplanning methodology has been developed drawing on the
practical experiences in various countries, and has benefited from the procedures developed
by the Bolivian Fondo de Desarrollo Campesino, the Latin American Faculty for Social
Sciences, and the GTZ's Goal-Oriented Project Planning (ZOPP). It consists of the
organization of community and district workshops over the course of several weeks. At the
workshops, project field promoters and Executing Agencies help the communities formulate
a development strategy, by applying methods of groups dynamics. Workshop participants
are community delegates (two people, a woman and a man), representatives from
development organizations, and interested individuals. After each workshop, time is allotted
for the community delegates to return and inform the community of the workshops
proceedings, and receive community feedback. As some communities decisions are taken
by consensus, this process can be lengthy. The duration and cost of this process are
variable and depend on: (i) maturity of the local organizations; (ii) homogeneity of the
rural communities; (iii) time availability of community members, which is a function of
interest, cropping seasons and employment patterns; and (iv) IO capabilities and
commitment.
10.   The Participatory Microplanning would be carried out at community and
corregimiento levels and has seven stages:
(a) Preparatory phase. Project staff would participate in the training of NGOs and other
executing agencies to explain its programs and procedures detailed in the Operational
Manual;
(b) Promotion. The NGOs would disseminate FUSARD purposes and methodology and in
particular: (i) the eligibility criteria for subprojects; (ii) the processing steps for eligible
subprojects identified in their corresponding action plans, including sample
documentation and approximate times of processing, and (iii) execution and supervision
mechanisms applied by FUSARD;
(c) Constitution of the Sustainable Development Committee at community and
corregimiento levels;
(d) Self diagnostic to help the communities better perceive their economic and social
strengths and weaknesses with a view to formulating achievable socio-economic goals.
Participatory rural appraisal techniques-such as participatory mapping and seasonal
calendars-are used to assist the community in the identification of constraints, causes
and solutions;
(e) Preparation of a Community (CAP) Action Plan, which is a ranked list of subprojects
screened according to development strategy, requirements, technical feasibility, and
funds availability or potential suitability for funding (from FUSARD or other sources);
(f) Plan adjustment; and



ANNEX A
Page 12 of 18
Appendix I
(g) Subproject formulation to transform subproject ideas into financiable proposals.
11.   The participatory rural appraisal techniques and tools would include, among others:
(i) interviews, whose flexible agendas permit the participants guided discussion topics;
(ii) participatory mapping exercises, which positions socio-economic information on a map,
creates consensus and facilitates communications; (iii) seasonal calendar, showing rainfall
patterns, crop sequencing, seasonal labor demand and availability; (iv) historical profiles and
time trends, concerning changes in social organization, income opportunities and natural
resource use; and (v) short, simple questionnaires, concerning socio-economnic situation to
be completed by the whole community before the following workshop.
12.   The subproject preparation consists of three stages:
(a) Subproject Profile/Idea. This is a first description of the subproject, its rationale and an
approximation of its cost;
(b) Subproject Proposal. It is an economic, social, environmental, and financial evaluation
of the subproject, with a detailed estimation of its costs. The format of the Proposal is
suitable for presentation to funding agencies; and
(c) Subproject Design. It is a detailed technical description of the subproject. The Design is
necessary only for technically complex subprojects, such as agroindustries or irrigation
systems.
The preparation of subproject profiles begins in parallel with the preparation of the action
plan, as the ranking process requires an approximation of the costs and feasibility of various
subproject options. The final development contains a profile for every proposed subproject.



ANNEX A
Page 13 of 18
Appendix 1
Table 5. Indicative Expenditure of FUSARD Funds3
Subproject       FUSARD         Reference Cost by Sub-Project (US$) and number of
Expenditures                 possible sub-projects
(US$ millions)
a. Rural Roads              5.80  14,220 /Km. (400 kms)
b. Marketing                0.91  100.000 per rural concentration market (5 markets:
13,500 for equipment x 5, 5.200 for technical assistance
projects x 5
5.000 per training project (5 x projects)
1.613 per municipalities technical assistance project (13
projects)
1.310 per municipality training project (13 projects)
c. Agroindustry             1.36  15.000 per small project (35 projects)
100.000 per regional project (5 projects)
60.000 per silvoindustrial project (6 projects)
d. Production               2.86  700 per PRI project (1.100 projects)
Systems                           1.500 per PR2 project (660 projects)
2.500 per PR3 project (440 projects)
e. Environmental            0.40  20.000 per project (20 projects)
f. Mini-Irrigation          0.46  6.850 per community project (10 ha.)
(40 projects)
1.903 per mini-irrigation (1 ha.) (100 projects)
g. Reforestation            1.52  45.000 per nursery (9 projects)
8.000 per seed processing (3 projects)
280 per ha. of wood species
700 per ha. of fruit trees (4000 ha. for both categories)
h. Preinvestment            0.03  3% of total cost project (5% includes detailed designs)
Studies
i. Others                   2.16
TOTAL                      15.50
13.   The Subproject Cycle. Once the Community Action Plan (CAP) has been
finalized, and reviewed at the appropriate level for technical requirement and for
3      These amounts do not represent an earmarking of funds, which would go against the
demand-driven principle of FUSARD, but a preliminary estimation of the demand in the
project area.



ANNEX A
Page 14 of 18
Appendix 1
coordinating with neighboring communities, with the possibility of consolidating projects
(e.g. watershed management, agroindustries, nurseries), the processing procedures for
eligible subprojects would consist of the following phases: promotion, identification,
preparation, appraisal, approval, execution, monitoring, acceptance of works (for
infrastructure projects), and ex post evaluation:
(a) Identification. FUSARD processes subprojects originating from: (i) district or
community action plans; and (iii) eligible executing agencies. All proposals should
demonstrate community participation and consensus in the prioritization and
identification of the subprojects.
(b) Formulation. The primary responsibility for subproject formulation lies with the
executing agency and project field staff The preparation process may take one of three
possible courses: (i) the subproject profile is duly prepared according to FUSARD
requirements and guidelines and requires no further work prior to appraisal by
FUSARD; (ii) the subproject profile complies with general eligibility criteria but requires
a feasibility study; this study would usually be financed under the Sustainable Rural
Development Component; and (iii) the subproject profile does not meet eligibility
criteria, requiring the executing agency to redesign it with guidance from FUSARD.
(c) Appraisal. FUSARD, supported by project specialists, appraises the subproject,
including discrepancies between proposed unit costs and standard costs by project
category. Subproject appraisal takes into account the subproject's prioritization
process, cost-effectiveness, poverty focus, and sustainability. In addition, the
institutional capacity of the executing agency is evaluated. FUSARD also evaluates the
significance of the counterpart contribution. Approval criteria includes analysis of
alternatives, social impact and multiplier effect. Some subprojects require an
environmental analysis (see below). Any subproject deemed unfeasible on appraisal may
be rejected. The executing agency may then consider redesigning the subproject and
submit it again to FUSARD.
(d) Approval. Subprojects are approved according to thresholds set in Table 1. Approved
subprojects are then included in FUSARD annual operating plan. When funding is
approved, FUSARD and the requesting agency (or community, if provided with legal
status) enter into a contract. For some kind of subprojects, when a contractor is
required (such as for infrastructure subprojects), the contract would also involve the
contractor.
(e) Execution. The responsibility for subproject implementation lies with the executing
agency. Subproject implementation rules include: (a) FUSARD signs a contract with
the executing agency, in which the executing agency commit itself to follow FUSARD
procurement procedures; (b) the target community approves the hiring of external
consultants/sub-contractors by the executing agency; (c) where applicable, the executing
agency would enter into a contract with the construction contractor or supplier of
goods or services; and (d) the executing agency would ensure proper subproject
supervision as per its contractual obligations in (a).



ANNEX A
Page 15 of 18
Appendix 1
(f) Disbursement. Disbursements would be made against the contract signed between
FUSARD and the executing agency. Full disbursements could be done in advance only
in the case of small subprojects, while in other cases the disbursement would be divided
in tranches.
(g) Subproject supervision and technical follow-up. Responsibilities for these activities are
divided among beneficiaries and field personnel under the MIDA Department of Rural
Development. Participatory supervision and social monitoring are the pillar of the
FUSARD approach. However, given the difficult technical aspects in some subprojects
(e.g. agroindustries), the involvement of technically prepared professionals would be
essential. For the agricultural and marketing subprojects, MIDA has a major
comparative advantage over other institutions in Panama: more than half of his 2,500
staff are based outside Panama city, in provincial and district offices composed of multi-
disciplinary teams. In some cases, additional contracts between an independent
supervisor and FUSARD might be required.
(h) Monitoring. The monitoring of the subproject is shared by the executing agency, the
target community, and FUSARD staff, in a pre-determined written arrangement. All
three parties issue an approval and formal certification of due and proper project
subproject performance. FUSARD has a planning, monitoring, and evaluation system
detailing the specific instruments and the responsibilities. The long term objective of
FUSARD is to emphasize ex-post monitoring, though at the beginning a more intense
follow up would be necessary. A list of monitoring indicators is in Annex F.
(i) Operation, Maintenance and Ex-post Evaluation. The target community holds the
primary responsibility for subproject operation. However, the executing agency would
maintain a presence throughout this phase to ensure due and proper subproject
operation, the provision of technical assistance services if required, maintenance and ex-
post evaluation.
Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures
14.   The project would contribute to the implementation of various kinds of subprojects,
some with possible negative impact on the environment and others with clear positive
impact. The rehabilitation of rural infrastructure such as access roads, small scale irrigation
works, processing and market facilities, etc. could create localized environmental problems.
Subprojects of integrated watershed management, reforestation, pasture management, etc.,
would generate a positive environmental impact. The training and capacity-building
components would include sustainable natural resource management, thus generating long-
term benefits for the environment.
15.   Environmental aspects of all subprojects would be reviewed during feasibility studies
and, when appropriate, mitigating measures would be designed for implementation. IOs
would prepare an environmental description of every infrastructure and production support
subproject. This information would be reviewed by INRENARE, which would be
responsible for the screening and which would assign the subproject to one of the following



ANNEX A
Page 16 of 18
Appendix I
categories: (i) full environment assessment required; (ii) specific environment assessment
required; (iii) although an environment assessment is not required, environmental analysis is
suggested; and (iv) no environment assessment or environmental analysis required. Besides,
subproject identification and preparation through the participatory community-planning
process would help avert negative impact on human and social environment.
16.   Access Road Rehabilitation. FUSARD would finance only rehabilitation and spot
improvement of existing roads. A simplified environmental analysis would carried out for
each subproject of this kind as the roads are already in existence. This analysis would take
into account not only the disturbance to natural environment caused by soil erosion,
changes to stream and underground water, interference with animal life, deforestation on
the road blade, but also the increases in agricultural production. These consequences are
inherent with agricultural growth and intensification. Access roads would not be
rehabilitated in forest reserves and other environmentally sensitive areas or where they
would encourage settlement.
Table 4. Environmental Impact of Access Road Rehabilitation Subprojects
Im  act                     Likelihood of Occurrence   Miti ation Measures
Natural Environment
Borrow-pits in the vicinity of   Likely: but with labor intense   Includes the contract the
roads                       construction methods, the pits  necessity to re-vegetate borrow
are shallow and small.      pits and practice soil
stabilization in areas with steep
_slopes (valleys).
Soil erosion through water run-  Likely if appropriate   Provide adequate side drainage
off                          procedures are not followed.    and dispersion of drains by
means of culverts in
appropriate areas. Correct
camber placement to improve
local run-off.
Opening of environmental    Not likely                   Only rehabilitation of existing
sensitive production areas.                              access roads.
Increased agrochemical       Likely                      Extension services for farmers
application for the                                      in (i) application and storage of
intensification of crop and                              chemicals; (ii) Integrated Pest
livestock production                                     Management (IPM); and
(iii) organic agriculture
Deforestation to increment  Not likely                   Only rehabilitation of existing
agricultural production.                                 access roads.
Human and Social Environment
Involuntary settlement or   None
resettlement
Encroachment of historical-  None
cultural areas



ANNEX A
Page 17 of 18
Appendix 1
17.   Small Scale Irrigation. As only small-scale irrigation would be introduced, the
subproject would not have a significant environmental impact. However, some problems,
such as water quality degradation because of chemicals used in the more intensive irrigated
agriculture, might occur at the local level. In Table 5 the likelihood of occurrence and
eventual mitigation measures are highlighted.
Table 5. Environmental Impact of Micro-Irrigation Subprojects
Impact           |  Likelihood of Occurrence       Mitigation Measures
Natural Environment
Disruption of river hydrology   None: subproject are small-
scale (max. 100 Ha, average 40
Ha).
Reduction of downstream flood  Likely                    The effect is positive as
flows and consequent reduction                           conserving water in rainy
of low lying areas flooding                              season would improve
downstream flows in dry
season.
Waterlogging and salinity    Not very common in highlands  Drainage networks where
problems                     and valleys                 necessary. Control of water
__ uality at feasibility.
Water quality degradation    Likely: but the effect is    Extension services to train
through chemicals            minimal because of small-scale  farmers in application and
storage of chemicals
Encroachment into forest or    None: irrigable areas have
swamp land                   been already under rain-fed
cultivation
Soil erosion                Likely: only localized erosion    Proper construction procedures
during construction
Free-ranging livestock causing  Very likely.             Perimeter fencing allowed in
damage to dikes, canal and                               subproject design
crops
Change in wildlife and bio-  Not a major problem because
diversity                    of small scale. Minimal
improvement of vegetation.  _-
Water borne disease          Possible in areas with high  Drainage system
Itemperatures               I
Human and Social Environment
Impediments to movement -    Very little                 The participatory micro-
transportation.                                          planning would resolve this
____  problem in advance.
Involuntary settlement or   None
resettlement                                          _



ANNEX A
Page 18 of 18
Appendix 1
Conflict with existing water    Likely, but not a major  The participatory micro-
users                      problem because of small-scale  planning would resolve this
problem in advance
Encroachment of historical-    None
cultural areas
18.   Processing and Market Facilities. Environmental problems related to these kinds
of subprojects are mainly health and sanitation related: water supply, refuse collection,
sewerage, and clean-up facilities. Poor hygiene and lack of water supply can turn out into
food contamination and health hazards. Some kind of processing, such as cheese
processing, could produce polluting sewerage, while others, such as brick production, might
cause borrow-pits. In all these cases, appropriate mitigation measures would be a condition
of financing the project.
O:\LAT\LATAD\MAURIZIO\PANAMA\BUFF\ANNEX-A.DOC



ANNEX B
Page 1 of 20
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Biodiversity Conservation Comnonent
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.    The proposed, integrated Rural Poverty and Natural Resources/Biodiversity
Conservation Program (IBRD/GEF) deals with the root causes leading to migration to the
agricultural frontier and invasion of public forests and protected areas while enhancing on-
site protection of areas with biodiversity values of regional and global importance,
assisting local and national government and communities to internalize the costs of natural
resource degradation and biodiversity loss, and improving the conservation and
management of biodiversity inside and outside of protected areas. The program includes
two associated components whose objectives are: (i) to pilot methodologies that direct
resources for investment and technical assistance towards priority areas of rural poverty
and natural resource degradation in order to reduce their incidence and outmigration; and
(ii) to conserve priority biodiversity in areas of global, regional and national interest.
2.    THE second component is still under preparation to meet the Global Environmental
Facility's priorities to provide a grant to finance the incremental costs of protecting the
National Biological Corridor. Although conceptually and administratively part of the
same project, the GEF grant, which would co-finance with Government and communities
the Panamanian portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (herein called the
Atlantic Biological Corridor), would be managed as a separate financial operation, with
different timing, documentation, legal agreements and supervision reports. The GEF
activities are still under preparation and subject to GEF council approval; the GEF-
supported components are expected to be submitted for Board approval in the second half
of calendar 1997, and if approved, implementation could start about four months after the
IBRD loan is effective. The description presented below of the Corridor related activities
is preliminary and could be changed during the on-going preparation of the relevant
subcomponents.
Biodiversity and Threats in Panama
3.    Biodiversity In Panama. The Isthmus of Panama is the terrestrial bridge which
has united the continental masses of North and South America and separated the waters of
the Pacific and Atlantic oceans since the Pleistocene. These and other biogeographic and
climatic factors combine to make Panama a high biodiversity country. The other factors
include: Panama's location at the juncture of the Caribbean, Northern Andean, and
Central American bioregions; its narrow mass between two oceans and sharp attitudinal
gradients compressing life zones and causing rapid changes within and between habitat-
types; and the influences of the strong climatic gradients created by the Trade Winds



ANNEX B
Page 2 of 20
encountering the central cordillera. These factors create the multiple habitats and
microhabitats which greatly enhance this small country's (75,517km2 ) biological diversity
and importance. The former Canal Zone, which transects the country along the types of
gradient described here, represents the only location in the Americas where an inter-
oceanic biological corridor is still practically uninterrupted.
4.    From a conservation perspective, a recent study identifies Panama' as the one
country in the Central American Isthmus with areas of globally important Tropical Moist
Broadleaf Forest (Choc6/Darien moist forests). It places these forests in "highest" priority
category in Latin America for biodiversity conservation. This study also notes that the
Tropical Moist Broadleaf Forests of the Talamancan mountain range and the mangroves
of Bocas del Toro/Bastimentos Island/San Blas are considered to be "high" priority for
biodiversity conservation. Indeed, two-thirds of the Panama falls either into the "highest"
or "high" priority category.
5.    Three major habitat types are found within Panama: (i) Tropical Moist Broadleaf
Forests; (ii) Tropical Dry Broadleaf Forests, and (iii) Mangroves. There are 12 confirmed
Holdridge Life Zones 2. The existence of a 13th, Subalpine Wet Paramo, awaits
confirmation. A total of 24 distinct landscape units are recognized, within which a
considerable number of endemic species are found. In terms of species diversity among
mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians, Panama is first among the countries of Central
America and the Caribbean; and in terms of vascular seed plants it is second only to Costa
Rica (Winogad, 1995).
6.     Aside from biodiversity values, Panama's forest areas are also of incalculable
economic importance to North, Meso-, and South America. The so-far inaccessible and
untransversed forests of the Darien have served as an effective biological barrier to the
interchange of economically important crop and livestock pests and diseases (e.g., foot
and mouth disease). In addition, one-half of the Panama Canal's watershed is protected
by national parks, an act of conservation which protects the water supply of a $400 million
per year operation (shipping fees and Canal related services) of tremendous global
economic importance.
Dinerstein, et al. 1995. A Conservation Assessment of The Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America
and the Caribbean. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
2 (1) Tropical Dry Forest; (2) Tropical Moist Forest; (3) Tropical Wet Forest; (4) Premontane Dry
Forest; (5) Premontane Moist Forest; (6) Premontane Wet Forest; (7) Premontane Rain Forest;
(8) Lower Montane Moist Forest; (9) Lower Montane Wet Forest; (10) Lower Montane Rain Forest;
(11) Montane Wet Forest; and (12) Montane Rain Forest.



ANNEX B
Page 3 of 20
Table 1. National Protected Area System - by Category
Management Category       No.  Area (ha)    No. And Total Area, Protected Areas Within
L                              __________         Proposed Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor
National Parks                 14    1,357,084 10 with 77% of National Parks area
Forest Reserves l               5       89,194 4 with 89% of Forest Reserves area
Wildlife Refuges                8       40,349 2 with 24% of Wildlife Refuges area
Protection Forests              1      125,000 I with 100% of Protection Forests area
Wetlands of International       3      119,382 3 with 25% of Wetlands area
Importance
National Wetland   __           1          143 none
Natural Monuments               2        5,404 none
Natural Areas                   I          265 none
Recreation Areas                2          348 none
Hydrologic Protection Zones     1        2,520 none
Wildlands                        I            1; area unspecified
Biological Corridors            1       31,275 1 with 100% of Biological Corridors area
Total  40    1,770,963 22 with 78% of protected land area
Source: INRENARE, 11/96
1/ the Forest Reserves of Tonosi, Chepigana, Caraila, Filo del Tallo, and the Protection Forest of Alto Darien are not included due to
present-legal, tenure, and land use conflicts.
2/ category included by INRENARE
7.     To protect what remains of the country's healthy ecosystems, government has set
aside 23% of the national territory to form the National Protected Area System (NAPAS)
as shown in Tables 1 and 2. A review of the conservation status of the life zones
represented in the NAPAS shows:
* There is relatively little which is intact within the tropical dry forest zones, and
premontane dry forest (being zones traditionally favored for human settlement);
* Significant areas of humid tropical forest, premontane wet forest, premontane rain
forest, lower montane wet forest, lower montane rain forest, and montane rain forest
remain, which have been little altered;
* Some small areas of montane rain forest remain unaltered;
*  The conservation status of premontane moist forest, lower montane moist forest and
montane wet forest is uncertain, as well as subalpine wet paramo, which is in fact
unconfirmed.



ANNEX B
Page 4 of 20
Table 2. Panama's National Protected Area System - Detail
CATEGORY                AREA                     LEGAL BASE                     LOCATION
(hectares)    Date of I Law No.   # Gaceta    Date
Creation               oriciI Gaceta
Parques Nacionales               1,359,647
Altos de Campana                     2,630   6/28/66 Dec. 153    15.655        7/6/66 Panama
4,816   4/28/77 Dec. 35    18.645       8/21/78
Volcan Baru                         14,000   6/24/76 Dec. 40    18.619       7/13/78 Chiriqui
Portobelo                           35,929  12/22/76 Law  91    18.252        1/12/77 Colon
Soberania                           22,104   5/27/80 Dec. 13    20.333       6/24/85 Panama y Colon
Darien                             579,000    7/8/80 E.D.  21   19.142        8/27/80 Darien
Sarigua                              8,000   10/2/84 E.D.  72   20.231        1/24/85 Herrera
Chagres                            129,000   10/2/84 E.D. 73   20.238         2/4/85 Panama y Colon
Cerro Hoya                          32,557   10/2/84 E.D.  74   20.245       2/13/85 Los Santos y
Veraguas
El Cope                             25,275   7/31/86 E.D.  18   21.211        1/12/89 Cocle
La Amistad                         207,000    9/2/88 INRE 21-88 21.129         9/9/88 Chiriqui, Bocas del
Toro
Marino Isla Bastimiento             13,226    9/2/88 INRE 22-88 21.129         9/6/88 Bocas del Toro
Coiba                              270,000  12/17/91 INRE 21-91  21.958       1/23/92 Veraguas
Camino de Cruces                     4,000  12/30/92 Law  30    22.198         1/6/93 Panama
Interoceanico de las Americas                5/25/93 INRE 28-93                      Panama y Colon
Marino Golfo de Chiriqui            14,740    2/8/94 INRE 019-94                     Chiriqui
Reservas Forestales                346,494
La Yeguada                           7,090 09/28/60  Dec. 94    14.258      10/20/60 Veraguas
Tonosi                                     09/28/60  Dec. 94                         Los Santos
Fortuna                             19,500 09/21i76      86                          Chiriqui
La Tronosa                          20,579 12/02/77  Law  55    18.483      12/22/77 Los Santos
El Montuoso                         10,375 05/15/78  Law  12                         Herrera
Cangion                             31,650 02/10/84  Dec. 75                         Darien
Chepigana                          257,219 09/25/84  Dec. 94                         Darien
Filo del Tallo                                                                       Darien
Finca Carana                            81                                           Chiriqui
Refugios de Vida Silvestre         40,348.5
Cenegon del Mangle                   1,000 10/07/80  M.R.  5                         Herrera
Isla Iguana                             53 06/15/81  E.D. 20    21.235      02/20/89 Los Santos
Penon dela Honda                     2,000 12/10/82  M.A. 14                         Los Santos
3,900 05/03/85  M.A. 10
Taboga                               257.5 10/02/84  E.D. 76    20.258      03/06/85 Panama
El Penon del Cedro de los               30 06/26/91  M.R.                            Herrera
Pozos
Pablo Arturo Barrios                       02/11/92  M.A. 4                          Los Santos
Isla de Canas                       25,433 06/29/94  1NRE 010-94                     Los Santos
Playa de la BarquetaAgricola         5,935 08/02/94  INRE 0 16-94                    Chiriqui
Playa de Boca Vieja                  3,740 08/02/94  INRE 017-94                     Chiriqui
Bosques Protectores                326,000
Palo Seco                          125,000 09/28/83  E.D. 25    19.943      11/24/83 Bocas de Toro
Alto Darien                        201,000                                           Darien



ANNEX B
Page 5 of 20
Table 2. Panama's National Protected Area System - Detail (con'd)
CATEGORY               AREA                   LEGAL BASE                    LOCATION
(hectares)    Date of   Law No.   # Gaceta   Date
Creation              Of cial   Gaceta
Humedales de Importancia        119,524.5
Internacional
Golfo de Montijo                  89,452 11/26/90  RAMSAR                       Veraguas
07/29/94  INRE 015-94
Lagunas de Volcan                  142.5 08/02/94  INRE 018-94                  Chiriqui
San San Pond Sak                  16,125 08/02/94  INRE 020-94                  Bocas de Toro
Punta Patino                      13,805 08/02/94  INRE 021-94                  Darien
Monumentos Naturales             5,403.5
Barro Colorado                     5,400 --1-123                                Panama
Los Pozos de Calobre                 3.5 07/29/94  INRE 013-94                  Veraguas
Areas Naturales                      265
Pargue Natural Metropolitano         265 07/05/85  Law  8    20.352     07/19/85 Panama
Areas Recreativas                    348
Lago Gatun                           348 07/30/85  Dec. 88    20.395    09/19/85 Colon
El Salto de las Palmas                  07/29/94  INRE 014-94                   Veraguas
Proteccion Hidrologica             2,520
Tapagra                            2,520 04/14/93  INRE 22-93                   Panama
Areas Silvestres
Corregimiento Nargana (# 1)             08/02/94  INRE 022-94                   San Blas
TOTAL                         2,200,550.5
Source: INRENARE 4/95. See footnote 1 of Table I for explanation of total area differences.
Dec. = Decree                               M.R. Municipal Resolution
MA.A  Municipal Agreement                   INRE Resolution of Directors of INRENARE
E.D. = Executive decree                     RAMSAR = International Wetlands Convention
8.     Within the above areas, there are yet some outstanding examples of relatively
intact and healthy areas of global and regional biodiversity importance. Areas of note
include: (i) the Darien region's lowland rainforests, riverine systems -- including the
country's largest river system (Tuira River), wetlands and coastal areas; (ii) the Province
of Bocas Del Toro whose archipelagos have been described as the "Galapagos Islands" of
the next century due to their geologic history and current conservation status; significant
elements of primary humid and wet tropical, Premontane and montane forests, inland
marshes and coastal wetlands, healthy coral formations and transient populations of
manatee and green turtles yet exist; (iii) the Talamanca Range, crossing the border
between Panama and Costa Rica, which is estimated to be the region of highest
biodiversity on the Central American isthmus (source: WWF, 1991); an area of extremely
high endemism, it encompasses the largest complex of protected areas within one
bioregion in Central America (La Amistad International Park) and it is one of the most
diverse, virtually intact ecosystems in Central America encompassing a variety of habitats
including lowland rainforest, cloud forest, subalpine plains, high marshes and glacial
vestiges.
9.      These areas are all included in the Panamanian Atlantic portion of the Meso-
American Biodiversity Corridor, a regional project which aims at conserving a series of
high biodiversity areas of global importance extending from Southern Mexico to Northern



ANNEX B
Page 6 of 20
Colombia, thus providing a critical biological link between the continental masses of North
and South America. UNDP is now finalizing a Central American study to refine the
definition and priorities of the MBC. In Honduras the World Bank and UNDP are
collaborating in the preparation of the GEF/IDA Biodiversity Conservation Project which
supports Honduras' contribution to the MBC; in Nicaragua the GEF/IDA Atlantic
Biodiversity Corridor project is under preparation to support Nicaragua's contribution to
the MBC. In Costa Rica the protected areas system has recently been restructured with
explicit "biological corridor" objectives. GEF is also supporting projects, through UNDP,
in Guatemala and Costa Rica.
10.   Threats to Biodiversity. Threats to these ecosystems comes from diverse
anthropogenic influences. The first is reflected in the advance of the agricultural frontier.
The existence of the rich biodiversity described above contrasts sharply with the land use
situation. Over half of the forests of Panama have disappeared and deforestation rates are
estimated to be in the order of 50,000 ha/yr. The causes of deforestation and land
degradation are in no way unique to Panama and their roots are to be found, among
others, in extreme poverty (a highly rural phenomena in Panama), lack of economic
opportunity in the rural zones, and government policies that in the past have favored urban
over rural zones and larger-scale, export-oriented agriculture (e.g., livestock) to the
exclusion of more balanced resource management. Soil degradation and the lack of viable
economic resource management alternatives in the traditional agricultural zones
continually propel the rural poor outward in search of new lands at the agricultural
frontier. In most cases, those frontiers have or are rapidly closing in on the country's
forests and protected areas. With both the population of poor and the percentage living in
poverty increasing, so apparently are invasions of protected areas. Increased ease of
access into the Darien region has in recent years further fueled this phenomena.
11.   Other threats to biodiversity include (i) new road projects, which, under frontier
conditions, would offer improved access into unprotected, intact ecosystems of the
Atlantic; (ii) mining in the Cordillera Central of Panama, which is included in the Atlantic
corridor, and which is considered to be one of the last major unexplored porphyry copper-
gold belts in the world; (iii) native forest exploitation through extraction permits given to
individuals or community groups and logging concessions; (iv) wildlife-habitat
conversion, fragmentation and hunting; and (v) contamination of fresh and coastal waters
from non-point source pollution from agriculture, rural processing facilities, urban
wastewater, petroleum wastes and spills in the canal and the cross-country pipelines.
12.   GOP Strategy to Manage Threats to Biodiversity. In spite of these threats,
Panama has been more successful than most other Central American countries in
preserving biodiversity and an almost uninterrupted corridor of yet relatively intact
ecosystems along the Atlantic coast and inland defacto exists. Three of the most
important biodiversity areas of the country discussed above, the Dari6n, Bocas del Toro
and the Talamanca range, are outstanding examples of relatively intact and healthy areas
included in the corridor.



ANNEX B
Page 7 of 20
13.   Panama's successes in preserving the Atlantic coast and its most important
biodiversity in spite of the serious threats stem from a combination of national policies and
projects, namely: (i) a services based economy that was able to absorb considerable
surplus labor from rural areas into the Panama City, which contains today about half of the
Panamanian population; (ii) the inaccessibility of most of the Atlantic coast due to the
non-existence or poor state of roads and which helps reduce migratory and logging
pressures since economic activities have low profitability; (iii) protected areas that for the
most part are not "paper" parks and count with a minimum administrative presence,
including the Darien, Bocas del Toro and the Talamanca Range; (iv) the Kuna reserve
which is a world recognized success in giving indigenous communities (the Kunas) full
territorial and natural resource rights and which has been protected by the Kunas from
potential threats; (v) the Panama Canal watershed which protects the water supply of a
$400 million per year operation of tremendous global economic importance and where
GOP and donors have invested considerable resources for protection; (vi) pro-
biodiversity national legislation including the legislation creating the National Protected
Area System (1994), the Forestry Law (1994), the Environmental Impact Assessment-
Environmental Framework Law (1994) and the Wildlife Law (1995) and adherence to
international treaties (see below); and (vii) several on-going conservation and sustainable
development projects that directly or indirectly contribute to biodiversity conservation
including the GEF/UNDP project focused on the Darien buffer zone, the USAID-
PRONATURA fund for the Panama Canal watershed, two buffer zone IFAD projects, and
ITTO forest management project, and others discussed above, all within the biodiversity
corridor.
14.   Role of Proposed Project in Reducing Threats to Biodiversity. Today,
however, there is a perception that some of the threats are becoming more serious and that
unless incremental interventions are put in place global biodiversity will suffer from the
degradation of important sites and the breaking of important portions of the corridor.
These increased threats include the asphalting of a road into the Darien area, a new road
planned for the Bocas del Toro region, increased outmigration due to a crisis of the rural
economy in the Pacific, and the threats from an expansion of the mining activity. To
mitigate these threats the government has devised a three-pronged strategy that aims at
(i) reducing the push and (ii) pull factors underlying the advance of the agricultural
frontier; and (iii) minimizing the threats from on-going economic activities in the Atlantic.
15.   The proposed project is an integral part of this strategy. The project focuses one
set of instruments on the poorer and more populous southern provinces of the Pacific to
reduce outmigration from poverty and resource degradation leading to migration that
pushes the agricultural frontier and leads to subsequent invasions of public forests and
protected areas; and another set within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, closing
access to high biodiversity areas thus reducing the pull factors and controlling in situ
threats to biodiversity. This would be accomplished by (i) investing heavily in areas of
origin of poor migrants; (ii) improving protection of protected areas; (iii) helping



ANNEX B
Page 8 of 20
indigenous and non-indigenous dwellers of the Atlantic coast to protect their community
lands from external threats and assisting them with biodiversity conservation activities,
(iv) enlisting local governments in the Atlantic behind the principles of the corridor,
(v) ensuring that planned public development projects such as roads appropriately
internalize the corridor concept and include mitigating measures; (v) building partnerships
with mining interests in the Atlantic to involve them in biodiversity management activities;
and (vi) helping coordinate other on-going projects and ensuring that all contribute
coherently to the objectives of the corridor.
H. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
16.   The Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Project has been developed to provide
the Government of Panama with a coherent, multi-sectoral response to the interrelated
issues of rural poverty, natural resources management, and biodiversity conservation. The
rural development component focuses on the poorer and more populous southern
provinces of the Pacific where root causes of poverty and resource degradation lead to
migration to the agricultural frontier and subsequent invasions of public forests and
protected areas. The Biodiversity Conservation Component is described below.
17.   The principle objectives of the project are described in Chapter 2 of the main text. To
meet these goals the project would have three closely related components:
(a) Sustainable Rural Development (See para. 2.12, and Annex A).
(b) Biodiversity Conservation. Implemented by the Institute for Renewable Natural
Resources (INRENARE) and NGOs, this component would include two subcomponents:
(a) Pacific Zone Protected Area Management; and (b) Panama Atlantic Biological
Corridor, including (i) biodiversity information and planning from the Atlantic Biodiversity
Corridor, including base studies, community, municipal, provincial land use planning,
monitoring and environmental impact assessment; (ii) capacity building for relevant actors
in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use including modernization of protected areas
management; and (iii) Atlantic Biodiversity Investment Program, which would cover
support to government biodiversity subprojects and protected area management activities
that contribute to biodiversity conservation and sustainable use within the framework of the
biological corridor; including protected areas delimitation and infrastructure and
environmental projects in the buffer and biodiversity corridor zones, such as ecotouristic
activities that would generate income for the neighboring communities, as well as the PA
system. These actions would be carried out in the context of the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor and their incremental costs are expected to be funded by the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF).
(c) Project Coordination. (See para. 2.14 and Annex C).



ANNEX B
Page 9 of 20
Detailed Description of the Biodiversity Conservation Component
18.   INRENARE, as part of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor study assisted by
GEF/UNDP, has recently completed its study "Panama: National Protected Areas
and Biological Corridor Plan ". This study provides an approximate delineation of the
biological corridor and a diagnostic of the issues relevant to its conservation, including a
diagnosis of potential gaps in the current National Protected Areas System. Previous
work under the preparation of the Rural Poverty and Natural Resources project completed
a detailed diagnostic of the National Protected Areas System. The perspective of the
latter is on improving NAPAS management, prioritizing activities within NAPAS based on
conservation status and adequacy of management, identifying operational gaps and
weaknesses in the management of the priority protected areas and minimum necessary
investments to attend to the gaps and weaknesses. Further preparation is required to
complete what would be the proposal for Panama's contribution to the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor. This includes preparing the overall corridor strategy, review of the
proposed protected area investments in light of the strategy, preparation of the non-
protected area corridor investments, and ongoing participation and consultation processes
with stakeholders to ensure proper design.
19.   The corridor strategy would cover those areas of the country where a de facto
corridor still exists - within the Atlantic watershed and along the borders with Costa Rica
and Colombia. The proposal being developed includes a preliminary strategic definition of
feasible land uses that draw on the natural strengths conferred by the legal, conceptual or
physical existence of such features as protected areas, buffer zones, indigenous territories,
forest lands, critical municipal watersheds, wetlands, and economic development activities.
The final product would be a first approximation of an Environment and Land Use Plan
for the corridor. Secondly, from this plan priority corridor elements would be defined
where: (i) coordination with existing efforts and donors is essential; and (ii) defined types
of subprojects would be promoted and financed to support initiatives consistent with the
maintaining corridor integrity and biodiversity conservation. The Environmental Plan,
combined with outputs from the targeted social assessment, finalized Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan (Annex D), and additional stakeholder consultations, would provide the
basis for developing the broader strategy for the promotion and negotiation of the corridor
in its entirety. Thirdly, the proposal will define the capacity building investments required
to support both the specific subprojects and the broader corridor promotion. Fourth, it
will define the processes to be implemented during the project life to harmonize the
definition of the corridor with local, provincial and national interests, including ensuring
the evolution of the corridor strategy consistent with lessons being learned.
20.   Some aspects of this component are still under preparation to meet the Global
Environmental Facility's (GEF) priorities. IBRD and GOP would finance INRENARE
strengthening and the investments in the protected areas outside the Atlantic Biological
Corridor, which total US$2.2 million. The preparation of these latter investments has been
finalized and would be included for financing by the IBRD loan. The full component, divided



ANNEX B
Page 10 of 20
into three areas of action described below, would be implemented by INRENARE, NGOs and
other implementing organizations, under INRENARE supervision.
(a) Panama Atlantic Biological Corridor (PABC) Information and Planning (US$2.1
million; GEF tentatively US$1.5 million) would focus on filling in gaps in knowledge
critical to refining and negotiating the corridor framework with national and local level
actors would include: (i) Rapid Biodiversity Assessments (US$0.4 million; GEF tentatively
US$0.3 million) with biological, as well as economic and socio-cultural valuation, for
specific sites which are threatened by economic developments from mining, transport,
forestry, tourism, and fishing. The information generated would be essential to build
consensus around appropriate land uses to mitigate biodiversity loss of key sites and reduce
potential fragmentation of the corridor; (ii) Corridor Land Use Planning (US$0.6 million;
GEF tentatively US$0.4 million) for continued participatory planning of the corridor. The
PABC is perceived as a matrix of land uses agreed with key stakeholders at the local,
regional and national levels. Those agreements would be formalized through a series of
instruments, including participatory environmental land use planning, within which roles,
rights and responsibilities would be defined for local communities, NGOs, private sector,
and national and local government; (iii) Biodiversity Monitoring (US$0.6 million; GEF
tentatively US$0.5 million) for establishing a "minimum required" system for biodiversity
monitoring, which can detect changes in vegetative cover/land use, and population trends
of key indicator species, in order to more efficiently focus limited resources on threats to
the PABC. This system would be linked to both ongoing (e.g., standardized reporting by
park guards and field foresters) and ad hoc (e.g., Rapid Ecological Assessments, discussed
above, and biodiversity/ecological research) data collection mechanisms. This national
monitoring effort would be closely coordinated with a regional scheme for the MBC
supported by GEF/CCAD/UNDP; and (iv) Corridor Promotion and Information
Dissemination (US$0.5 million; GEF tentatively US$0.3 million) to ensure high visibility
for the corridor as a concept and a strategy for the integration of biodiversity concerns
within national, regional and local development. Activities would be focused both at the
general public as a means of creating public support for the corridor, as well as at key
stakeholders to create an incentive for their participation within planning processes,
partnerships and strategic alliances built around the conservation of key elements of the
corridor (e.g., indigenous lands, protected areas, primary forests, critical watersheds, etc.).
(b) Capacity Building For Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use (US$2.2
million; GEF tentatively US$1.5 million) would focus on strengthening of government and
non-government organizations and communities for the conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity resources in the PABC: (i) Training and Assistance to Government and Non-
government Organizations and Communities (US$1.7 million, GEF tentatively US$1.2
million) strengthening of key stakeholders through environmental education and selected
training and capacity building exercises in order to facilitate their assumption of
responsibilities in PABC corridor conservation and protection activities (e.g., in indigenous
lands, protected areas, primary forests, critical watersheds, coastal zones, etc.). Specific
programs would be targeted at (a) indigenous and non-indigenous communities in support
of pre-defined, eligible activities clearly related to the conservation and sustainable use of



ANNEX B
Page 11 of 20
biodiversity; (b) NGOs, private sector, and local governments in support of the PABC
strategy; (c) central government (non-INRENARE) on incorporation of biodiversity and
corridor strategy into sectoral planning; and (d) human resource development for protected
areas administration and management, including private sector partners, NGOs and local
governments and communities. Specific efforts will be made during preparation to create
alliances within the mining sector to strengthen environmental oversight and integration of
biodiversity issues into mining practice through the private sector Mining Board and
promotion of "model" practices; (ii) Modernization of Protected Area Management
(US$0.5 million; GEF tentatively US$0.2 million) including upgrading of management
norms, assistance in development of decentralized and participatory management and
management planning systems, training of personnel, and development of a revenue capture
and financial management system for protected areas.
(c) Panama Atlantic Biological Corridor Investment Program (US$6.8 million; GEF
tentatively US$5.2 million) would provide grants to finance eligible costs of securing the
long term protection of the corridor and biodiversity, including equipment, consultants,
operational expenses, studies, workshops, training, study tours and development and
dissemination of materials: (i) Indigenous Lands (US$1.6 million; GEF tentatively US$1.3
million) would include assisting indigenous communities in critical areas of the corridor in
managing their lands in order to ensure their access to them and the biological resources
they contain, according to community needs and principles of sustainable use. In some
cases, activities may include assisting communities with regularization of land tenure and
resource user rights; (ii) Local Biodiversity Conservation and Management (US$2.0
million; GEF tentatively US$1.7 million) would support a grant program targeted at
incremental costs of biodiversity conservation and management activities in pre-defined,
high priority areas of the corridor, to be carried out by indigenous and non-indigenous
communities, NGOs, municipal governments and the private sector. In all cases, grants
would be conditional on explicit quidpro quo agreements that establish the responsibilities
of grant recipients as regards sustainable resource use. As a complement, the FUSARD
mechanism set up under the associated IBRD-financed project would provide US$2.9
million in financing for productive activities associated with poverty alleviation and
sustainable resource management along the agricultural frontier currently threatening to
break through into the PABC in northern Veraguas (Districts of Calobre, Cafiazas and
Santa Fe). The CAPS activities (community action plans) to be developed as the guide for
FUSARD investments, would support local corridor planning and would potentially
identify eligible subprojects for GEF grant financing. The Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan, being finalized under project preparation, where appropriate, would
also identify priorities to be financed; (iii) Protected Area Management (US$3.1 million;
GEF tentatively US$2.2 million) would include financing of the management of globally
important protected areas located within the PABC but which lack adequate protection and
management or that are potentially threatened by uncontrolled economic development
activities and lack the tools to respond. Three areas have been selected as priorities,
representing together, a range of ecosystems: (a) Darien, to build on the GEF-financed
project being implemented through UNDP; (b) Omar Torrijos-EI Cope, a key link in the



ANNEX B
Page 12 of 20
center of the PABC currently facing potential threats from mining and, within the medium
term, advance of the agricultural frontier; and (c) the altitudinal ecosystem complex
extending from La Amistad/Volcan Baru to the Isla Bastimentos/San San Pond Sak
covering a range of habitats from mountain ecosystems to coral reefs and seagrass
meadows. Eligible investments would include: demarcation, management plans;
infrastructure and equipment for protection, rudimentary research and visitor facilities; and
direct involvement of non-government actors including private sectors in administration,
management and protection.
(d) Project Management (US$4 million; GEF tentatively US$0.3 million) would contribute
toward financing the incremental costs of project administration, coordination, and
management related to GEF-financed activities.
21.   A preliminary identification of the protected areas to be included in the
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor and within the Atlantic watershed are listed in Table 3
below.
Table 3. Preliminary Proposal of Protected Areas For Strengthening Under
Mesoamerican Corridor Sub-Component
PROTECTED AREA                    PRINCIPAL ECOSYSTEMS                   AREA (HA)
PROTECTED AREAS                                           ll
Darien               Lowlands and low hills with humid tropical forest,       579,000
rainforest and undisturbed wetlands, on Miocene sediments;
among the oldest vegetative communities in the country.
Large riverine systems (Tuira, Balsas and Sambu rivers).
Contains excellent examples of coastal cliffs and associated,
small, protected beaches.
La Amistad           Humid tropical forest, rainforest, cloud forest and paramo.  207,000
Riverine systems (Chaquinola, Teribe, and Culubre rivers.
High elevation wetlands and natural lake.
Volcan Baru          Montane tropical forest, paramo and native grass meadows.  14,000
Main cover type is evergreen forest, dominated by
Lauraceae and Fagacea (Quercus spp.). Protected area with
greatest life zone diversity.
Isla Bastimentos     Humid tropical forest, lagoons, coastal wetlands, beach,   13,226
coral reefs and seagrass meadows.                    80% marine
Omar Torrijos-EI     Premontane humid tropical forest and rainforest, montane  25,275
Cope                 humid tropical and cloud forest
WETLANDS OF INTERNATIONAL IMPORTANCE
an an Pond Sak      Lagoons, coastal wetlands, beach, coral reefs and seagrass  16,125
I meadows.



ANNEX B
Page 13 of 20
Further Preparation of the Component
22.   A Block B grant has been requested by Government and approved by GEF to
cover further project preparation costs. During preparation, mechanisms for increasing
direct contributions from the private sector NGOs, local communities and beneficiaries
would be explored, as would the potential for cost recovery into local or national
biodiversity conservation revolving funds for certain investments. The following list of
studies include much of the future preparation work; they are detailed in the above grant
document:
*  Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor Planning;
*  Preparation of Monitoring and Biodiversity Assessment Activities;
*  Training Needs for Protected Areas,
*  Preparation on Non-protected Area Activities and Identification of Economic
Incentives;
*  Strategy for Managing Mining and Roads Threats;
*  Social Evaluation and Participation Strategy for Indigenous and Non-indigenous
peoples;
*  Analysis of Legal Framework for Indigenous Lands;
*  Incremental Cost Analysis;
*  Institutionalization of the PABC within INRENARE and the Protected Areas System;
-  Promotion and Dissemination of the MBC and PABC.
Institutional Framework and Project Implementation
23.   The Institute of Renewable Natural Resources (INRENARE) would be responsible
for the implementation of the component with its Department of Parks and Wildlife
(DPW) taking direct responsibility for the project's execution. These would receive
assistance from the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which would manage disbursements
and procurement and channel funds to the project based on an approved annual work plan.
The PCU would also coordinate between agencies (INRENARE and MIDA) to assure
coherence in annual work plans and geographic and thematic focus, particularly as relates
to activities within and around protected areas and other critical elements of the biological
corridor. Implementation in the field would be mostly carried out by local organizations in
accordance with community and protected area action/management plans; a critical
element of which would be through stressing the formation of strategic partnerships
between the main stakeholders; such as formation of public/private park management
committees (committees involving local citizens, NGOs, and private sector in fund raising
and decisionmaking) for the management of biodiversity inside and outside protected
areas.



ANNEX B
Page 14 of 20
HI. RELATED ACTIVITIES
Parallel Projects
24.   Present efforts of note directly related to biodiversity conservation include: (i) the
Natural Resources Subcommittee in the Colombia-Panama Border Commission where
INRENARE (for Panama) and the Ministry of Environment (for Colombia) are working
on furthering exchange and scientific cooperation between the GEF-financed Bio-Darien
and Colombian Bio-Pacific projects; and (ii) the development of a national Biodiversity
Strategy, which is as yet in its initial stages, with assistance through UNEP.
25.   The parallel projects, which contribute directly or indirectly to biodiversity and the
Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor, include:
(a) Eastern Panama: (i) Sustainable Rural Development, Darien (IFAD): a six years
(1996-2002), US$14.3 million project for communities along the six main rivers in and
around the National Park.; (ii) Biodiversity Conservation, Darien (GEF/UNDP): a
five years (1994-99), US$2.5 million project with activities focused on the
identification of options for sustainable development which take into account
management and conservation of biodiversity inside and outside of protected areas,
involvement of indigenous communities, and supporting research and monitoring
activities; (iii) Community Management of Cativo Forest: a US$1.6 million project in
the provinces of Darien and Panama.
(b) North-Central Panama: (i) Natural Resource Management (Nature
Conservancy/USAID): a US$44 million project over seven years (1991-98) which has
established a US$25 million trust fund and foundation to assist INRENARE with
protected areas financing and financing of community-based natural resource
management focused primarily on the Canal Zone; (ii) The 'Triple-C' (IFAD): a
proposed project which would start in 1997 or 1998, with objectives similar to those
of the Sustainable Rural Development, Darien, with the inclusion of a central
objective on natural resource management and focused on the provinces of Cocle,
Col6n and Panama; (iii) Portobelo National Park project (SICA): a US$1.1 million
which is providing assistance to the national park and within its buffer zone;
(iv) Sustainable Forest Management Donoso District, Col6n (ITTO): a one year
project to develop forest management planning approaches for sustainable forest
management in the humid tropical zone of Panama.
(c) Western Panama: (i) Ngobe-Bugle (IFAD): a six year project (1994-2000), US$14.0
million project working with indigenous communities in sustainable livelihood and
rural development; (ii) Conservation for Sustainable Development (CATIE/OLAFO):
a three year (1993-95), US$0.7 million project focused on community and smallholder
resource management; (iii) Cooperative Agroforestry, Bocas Del Toro
(CATIE/GTZ): a four year (1995-98) US$0.35 million project; (iv) Ngobe,
Development of Forestry and Agroforestry Systems (GTZ): a four year (1992-95)
US$0.35 million project.



ANNEX B
Page 15 of 20
26.   The proposed IBRD/GEF projects would be a Panamanian contribution to the
integrated MesoAmerican Biodiversity Corridor (MBC). Ongoing projects alone would
be insufficient to bring about the conservation of the Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor which
covers 30% of the country, but with the complementary activities to be supported by the
proposed IBRD/GEF projects, the chances of success are optimistic.
Baseline Situation vs. GEF Alternative
27.   In terms of the Atlantic protected areas and their buffer zones within the areas
proposed under the Biodiversity Conservation Component, in 1996 a total of about
US$6.3 million (of which 80% was donor funding) was budgeted. The major financing
source is the Natural Resource Management project (USAID) accounting for over 60% of
1996 donor financing. Of these funds, about 60% went into the Panama Canal
watersheds, 17% into the Daridn, 8% to Portobelo National Park, 8% to the protected
area system in general, and the remaining 7% more or less equally to La Amistad and Isla
Bastimentos. For 1997, a very rough estimate of potential total financing (GOP and
donor) directly for natural resource management in what would be corridor areas outside
of protected areas and buffer zones would be US$1 million. This does not include the
1997 IFAD project financing of productive agricultural activities.
28.   While all these projects contribute to the biological corridor by promoting rational
land uses and resource management activities, alone they would not do the job. The role
of the IBRD/GEF project would be to cover existing gaps, of which the most important
ones are: (i) the need for a corridor planning and monitoring framework to guide public
investments; (ii) the need to involve a large number of public, private, NGO and
community stakeholders in the corridor concept; (iii) the need to enhance coordinating
mechanisms among the various initiatives; and (iv) the need to enhance biodiversity
conservation investments in areas of the corridor not well covered by the above projects.
These areas are (Table 1): (i) in the East: Darien, where there is already a GEF/UNDP
project, focused on community involvement primarily in the buffer zone, but where
additional resources are needed for activities inside the protected area; (ii) in the Central
Region West of Panama Canal: Omar Torrijos-El Cope; and (iii) in the Western Region:
La Amistad-Volcan Baru, Bastimentos and San San Pond Sak as detailed in Table 3.
Eligibility for GEF Grant
29.   Panama ratified the Convention for Biological Diversity on January 12, 1995. The
project is eligible for GEF funding under three of the four operational programs within the
Operational Strategy for Biodiversity: Mountain, Forest, and Coastal Wetlands, the
project would also strengthen protection of freshwater ecosystems. In accordance with
Article 8 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, the project focuses on in situ
conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in the Atlantic watershed and along
Panama's borders with Costa Rica and Colombia. It would protect biodiversity across a



ANNEX B
Page 16 of 20
diverse range of ecosystems and sharp altitudinal gradients encompassing tropical lowland
and montane tropical forests, coastal wetlands, reefs, and major riverine systems; including
the globally distinct Choc6/Darien moist forests, Bocas del Toro archipelagos, and areas
of the Talamanca Range with the highest levels of biodiversity on the Central American
isthmus.
30.   The participation of GEF within the project would be consistent with the First
Conference of the Parties (COP I and COP2) guidance as it: addresses in situ
conservation; includes institutional capacity building; strengthens conservation
management, and suitable use of ecosystems and habitats, including coastal and marine
ecosystems and mountain regions; strengthens the involvement of local and indigenous
peoples and integrates social dimensions, including those related to poverty. The proposed
GEF is also part of a larger GEF-supported strategy for an integrated Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor which is included in the GEF Operational Strategy. Other related
projects are currently under preparation with IDA and GEF support in Honduras and
Nicaragua; this project would complement those efforts in securing the integrity of the
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.
31.   The project has been a priority on the national natural resource agenda for the last
five years, the development of which has included support from the Tropical Forestry
Action Plan process. Preliminary discussions on the National Biodiversity Strategy have
also noted the national contribution to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC) as a
high priority. In 1994 Panama signed the Central American Alliance for Sustainable
Development which included objectives of guaranteeing the conservation of regional
biodiversity. The proposed project builds on UNDP/GEF-supported planning activities,
carried out by CCAD under a PDF Block B, to define the Mesoamerican Corridor and the
respective national contributions. The first phase of the UNDP Regional PDF has been
completed and has generated outputs of high relevance to the proposed project; these
include: (i) more precise definitions of the Panamanian biological corridor and planning
elements, to enrich the current national protected areas system plan; and (ii) an articulated
framework for compatibilizing national interests with regional priorities.
National Level Support
32.   The current government has an adopted policy of integrated development whose
elements include the promotion of social development within a context of economic
efficiency and support to those mechanisms which provide environmental oversight of
development and economic activities. Specific to biodiversity these latter are: (i) the 1994
resolution creating the National Protected Areas System and defining the norms,
regulations and management categories for its administration, (ii) the 1994 Forestry Law
providing the regulatory framework for the conservation of forests; and (iii) the 1995
Wildlife Law providing the regulatory framework for the conservation of wildlife. Bio-
logical corridors in Panama have been identified as priorities on the national natural
resource agenda for the past five years.



ANNEX B
Page 17 of 20
33.   Panama is a signatory to a number of regional and international agreements, in
addition to the Convention on Biological Diversity: RAMSAR (on wetlands), CMS
(international trade in migratory species), CITES (international trade in endangered
species), Central American Agreement for the Conservation of Biodiversity, and the
Central American Alliance for Sustainable Development; Panama is also a member of
IUCN (International Union for the Conservation of the Nature). Panama has participated
actively in the UNDP/GEF/CCAD regional corridor planning exercise, and the proposed
project would implement its major recommendations.



ANNEX B
Page 18 of 20
Apendix 1
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Biodiversity Conservation Component
Activity: Land Titline
1.    The purpose of this activity is to regularize land tenure of private properties that
adjoin the protected areas (PA) as a means to better define the PA's limits, rather than rely
only on demarcation from within the PA. Thus, it would title only those properties that
directly touch the PA - perimeter titling. Properties inside would be dealt with differently:
they wouldn't be titled, but rather the settlers would, through a negotiated process with
INRENARE, enter into an agreement which would define permitted activities and area of
action. No resettling would occur as Government has a stated policy against it. Rather,
through concession to use of the land, the settler would be enlisted to help protect the PA
from further encroachment. This appendix describes only the land titling process which
would be coordinated by MIDA's National Land Reform Office (Direcci6n Nacional de
Reforma Agraria) and INRENARE.
2.    Field Surveys. Field work would be carried out through the hiring of companies
specialized in topographic surveys with GPS capability. They would carry out the
following activities: (i) parcel survey and census-taking of owners, noting existing
infrastructure (roads, channels, populated centers and natural details as rivers and
streams); and (ii) tour property with the owner or petitioner; adjacent neighbors to
establish the boundaries of the parcel as well as agreement on the spot where the stakes
are to be placed. The team members would carry, as part of their working equipment, a
compass and hand level, a GPS station, and a measuring tape to locate any spot, to mark
any identifiable site to reference. Farms would be numbered following a cadastral
geographic code that identifies the province, district, and corregimiento, so that one
property can have only one number which would be used for all legal matters and
registration of the property in the public registry, cadastre and all institutions linked with
titling procedures.
3.    Preparation for Parcel Registration. The field team would prepare the parcel
registration documentation, including the signature of the property owner or occupant, as
well as signature of each adjacent neighbor. If litigation problems arise with one of the
adjacent neighbors, the property could be registered with a margin annotation indicating
conflict. Properties would be numbered and the team would hand over the file to a Land
Reform inspector, notifying the interested parties to meet with the inspector. If no
agreement is reached, an administrative conflict resolution team would be set up in order
to proceed with reconciliation; the registration of the boundary under discussion would be
held back until the conflict resolution team solves the conflict. If not solved, then its
resolution would proceed to the judicial system.



ANNEX B
Page 19 of 20
Apendix 1
4.    Request for Adjudication. The field team, after the conclusion of the definition
of the property boundaries, would prepare a file with its corresponding number and
regional code, and hand it over to the Land Reform inspector. The inspector would be
supervising the work in each cadastral corregimiento. This working methodology, carried
out for all individual properties in the project area, would form the property field map,
equivalent to the property's inventory or cadastre at the corregimiento, district and
province level and at the national level.
5.    Mapping the corregimiento and generating individual maps for each
property. The contractor would prepare the cartographic base defining property
including limits, boundaries, roads, topographic accidents, infrastructures. Once maps for
each corregimiento are prepared, the contractor would send optical disks of the general
property maps to the computer center which would be installed in MIDA's office and to
the Geographic Information System offices, where the information gathered in the field
would be checked for correctness. This process would be done through a computerized
system that uses as reference the geographic coordinates obtained by the GPS. The final
result would be a basic cartography at a desired scale, which in this case would be
property maps at a 1: 10,000 scale, and individual maps of all farms including all their
details.
6.    The Geographic Information System, given the information received from the
company and the lists of files received from the Land Reform institute, would generate a
data base including all the information related to the property and its owner. The purpose
of this data base is to be able to locate the farm through a geographic code defining the
property as belonging to a sole individual and enable access to search for and annex any
information through this number, as well as the registry number. The data base and maps
would constitute the basic cadastre information of this sub-program.
7.    Adjudication. The Land Reform Office would prepare an adjudication form in
the computer's data base, in which all information related to the property to be
adjudicated as well as its beneficiary would be included, in order to produce a
computerized adjudication form in which only basic information would be added; this form
would be sent electronically to the Public Registry's regional office in order to issue the
property deed and register the farm appropriately. MIDA and the Ministry of Justice
would sign an agreement through which the Public Registry would have to keep the
cadastre up-dated immediately after every registry transaction.
8.    Disclosure. An extensive advertising procedure is foreseen (via local authorities
and communications channels, radio stations, newspapers and television), in order to
guarantee broad participation during the titling process; working areas, as well as the
dates in which work would be carried out in an specific corregimiento, would be
announced with sufficient prior notice to allow maximum participation of stakeholders.



ANNEX B
Page 20 of 20
Apendix 1
9.    Once the legal file is established, the regional land reform office, in coordination
with the company that would work on titling, and with support from the mobile offices,
would carry out the advertising established by law for land adjudication purposes
(Advertising of Summons). It is estimated that the whole titling process of a given
property could be carried out in 30 to 45 days, except in areas of conflict.
O:\LAThIATAD\MAURIZIO\PANAMA\BUFF\ANNEX-B.DOC



ANNEX C
Page 1 of 6
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Proiect Orzanization. Administration and Coordination
1.    The field organization of the project is described in greater detail in Annexes A and
B (description of the two components). Project planning, budgeting, monitoring,
evaluation and supervision is in Annex F. This Annex concentrates on the organization of
the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), and the project's implementation schedule.
2.    The PCU headquarters would be located in the Sustainable Development
Component area, near Santiago, Veraguas, and the Biodiversity Conservation Component
would be located in INRENARE in Panama City where more of its project and
administrative staff are located. INRENARE project staff would liase regularly with the
PCU, and would have at least one person assigned there permanently. Most staff would
be reassigned MIDA and INRENARE staff, outside personnel would only be hired when
necessary skills are not available from the two institutions; at project appraisal, this was
estimated at ten people.
3 .    Figure 1 of this Annex provides a functional organigram of the PCU. The project
would be made up of a Coordinator chosen through competitive procedures, who would
be approved by the project's Technical and Operational Coordination Council, and with
the Bank's no-objection. Two heads of department would be appointed to coordinate the
implementation of each component. Both departments would be supported by a part-time
legal advisor, and two central units: i) a administrative-financial-accounting unit made up
of an administrator and two assistants who would be in charge of the administrative and
accounting registries, contracts and payments, and the purchase of office equipment and
materials; and ii) a programming and liaison unit with the FUSARD (also located in the
PCU--see Annex A), headed by a business administrator or agricultural economist, whose
function would be the programming of activities and monitoring their progress, the
disbursement of funds for project activities, and a lawyer to draw up the Subproject
Agreements (grant administration contracts) with implementing organizations that would
administer FUSARD subproject funds.
4.    The Sustainable Rural Development Department would be headed by a
management specialist with considerable experience in training staff that operate in rural
areas, as well as communities. The Department would be divided into three units:
Community Organization, Productive Technology Development (agricultural technology,
mini-irrigation, soil conservation and social reforestation), and Production Support
Services (marketing, agroindustry and rural roads).



ANNEX C
Page 2 of 6
5.    Their responsibility would be to provide technical services to the communities,
local organizations, and implementing organizations/service contractors (e.g., NGOs,
government departments, individual technicians) in the promotion and organization of
communities and contractors; community planning which would culminate in
community action plans and investment subprojects to be submitted to the FUSARD; and
supervise, monitor and control the execution of implementing organizations.
6.    The Biodiversity Conservation Department's Head would liase with regional
INRENARE directors (Chriqui, Bocas del Toro, Los Santos, Veraguas, Cocle, Panama
Metro and Darien) to execute project actions in the protected areas. There would also be
a person responsible for the ecotourism subcomponent who would be chosen with IPAT's
(tourism institute) no-objection. In INRENARE headquarters, the institution has built up
an effective administrative structure to execute the USAID supported Natural Resources
Management (MARENA) Project. As the project is winding down, this same structure
would be used for this proposed project. Only an incremental accounting assistant and a
secretary would be required to implement the component.
7.    The PCU would be provided with the necessary staff, equipment and vehicles to
properly implement the project. They would also have the funds to hire consultants for
project start-up, creating the administrative and operational manuals and training PCU
staff as required. The project implementation schedule is in Appendix 1 of this Annex.
Project monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by a contracted specialized agency
(Annex F); reporting is also covered in Annex F.



ANNEX C
Page 3 of 6
Figure 1. Functional Organigram of the Project
Ministry of Agriculture
Technical and Operational             (MIDA)
Coordination Council
(MIDA, INRENARE, MIPPE,
SDCs, Private Sector)      |Proje  Coordinating Unit
(PCU)
Sudainable----------- Ruradit..n.g
Sustainable Rural               Biodiversity Conservation
Development                   Component (INRENARE)
Component (MIDA)
Production Technology             Seven Regional Units
Development
Community                   Ecotourims and Small
Organization             _     Environmental
_______________________Investm ents
Production Support
FUSARD Board
of Directors               FU|ARD _...._._....._._...
FUSARD
O:\\                 AN         UANNEX-C .DOC
MRaine April 9, 1997 2:17 PM



ANNEX C
Figure 2
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1 9-96-   -        I      99-7 _       1         199-8      _                9-99--I         _F ----                  F*0~
Task Name                                                             01    020          40          2 103  0401 :         Q2 02 3    10C4 _02031    2  103   C4   Q1  |Q2  |Q3    h04  01                                    2   Q304
1. PREPARATORY
01 Approval PPF
02 Sign agreement with International Administratve Agent                                             H
03 Creation Proect Coordinabon Unt (PCU                                                              H
04 Negotiation WBGoverment                                                                     H
05 Approval WB                                                                                       H
06 Loan Effeciveness                                                                                       H
07 National Counterpart Deposit                                                                             H
08 Creation of Technical and Operational Coord. Council                                              H
09 Creation Fund Administration Committee FUSARD                                                     H
II. PCU START-UPIFUNCTIONING
10 Contracbng and/or reassignment PCU staff                                                          H
11 Contractngfexecubon PCU organizational consultancy                                                H
12 Contracting/execution with Local Exec. Agency training mgmt.system
13 Contracting/ene. with Local Exec. Agency monitoring and eval system                                h
14 PCU Installabon and equipping                                                                     H
IIIFUSARD START-UPIFUNCIONING
15 Approval of FUSARD Fund Operational Regulabons                                                    H
16 Agreements with local financial intermediaries                                                     1
IV SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
17 Contracting and/or reassigment of staff (chief and responsible stafl)
18 Installabon and equipping
V. RURAL ORGANIZATION TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT
19. Identificabonltraining of 30 technical promoters
20 Contracting/execubon of consultancy for tech. promoters training                                                     H                       H
21 Identicationftraining 440 community prnmoters
22 Identification/pnomotio/organizationidevelopment of 220 SDCCs
0'



ANNEX C
Figure 2
Fi996     i97                        m                 FF 2000200
Task Name                                                             01   102   1004                                   1 a  Q1 2  103  104   Ql10 2 ]Q3  104 J1  |02  0Q3  104   01  102    103 J               C4   01   102   103   104
IV PRODUCTIVE DEVELOPMENT SUBCOMPONENT
23 Establishment of intkrdisciplinary ag technology teams                                               H
24 Agreements with specialized agencies IDIAP, NGO, etc.)
25 Tech.Assisttraining to families/production systems PRI, PR2.PR3
26 Tech Assittren in ffigabon (100 small Irrigation proj.and 50 community prn.)
27 Tech.Asssttraning in social retorest(seed processing. nurseries, plantitks)
28 Contractng/execution of social reworestaion consultancy                                          |H
VIl. PRODUCTION SUPPORT SERVICES SUBCOMPONENT
29 Identificabonltraining of 8 commercial extension agents                                           H
30 Identttraining of 25 private and community commerc.extension agents                                                I
31 Systems training to 40 producer associabons                                                        t
32 Contractng/e)xecution of instiutional strengthening consultancies
33 Contractng/execuion of consultancies for crommercial ext program                                  H                                                      H
34 Contractingexecuton of consultancies for commercial infras.develop.
35 Contracting/exeution of consultaxc.s to a5ss provincial municipalities
36 Tech. Assist/training associations, retailers, fairs, municipalities
37 Identificationltraining of 6 rurl agroinrdustrial technical promoters                             H
38 Idenatication training of community promoters in rural agroindustry
39 Conlrscigxeculn d constaracles in agon&project, preiwjwest.                                             H                        H                       H
40 Assistancettrain.80 studies,45 small projects a regional,6 ind.forestry
41 MOP supervision agreement for rehab of rural roads
42 Identiulcationftraining of road workers
43 Assist/raining communities in implementabon vworks
Vlil. SBODIVERSITY CONSERVATION COMPONENT
44 First Draft of the GEF cofinanced component                                           H
45 POF preparation grant proposal                                                                    H
a Contacting ||                                                                                      H
47 Peappraisal                                                                                             H
48 Appraisal                                                                                               H
49 Negotiation                                                                                                   H
50 Contracting and/o staff reasnment (chief and responsible stat)PCU                                       H
51 Installabon and quipment                                                                               |H
O X
all t,



ANNEX C
Figure 2
19_7_1 8I2__                                                                                       202 I 999   L    _
Task Name                                                             Q        JQ2    JQ3 | 4   Q   J     13            l Q2  13   Q4   010               03 1         01      102  3  104   Q          J    |Q2 JQ3    0Q4 1    0Q2   03   04
IX. NAPAS MODERNIZATION
52 Designingrimplement manag. plans, operational plans                                                      il-
53 Designing/implement. national training program                                                           i - .
54 Designing/implement NAPAS financial program
55 Modemization, system, planifc.iinform./coord. and regulatory ftramework
56 Contracinxeaceculiontech.assistandlor NAPAS moderfizaton consuit.
X BIODIVERSITY INFORMATION AND PLANNING
57 Supporting studies                                                                                        | _
58 Participatory Planning 11nformation
Xl CAPACITY 8UILDING FOR SIODtVERSITY CONSERVATION
59 IdentWPromotlorganiz. PA's commuties committees
60 Designing/implemet., environmental educabon program
XIl BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION INVESTMENT    *
61 Corridor Subprojects
62 Demarcationfritfing
'These subcomponents are expected to be co-financed by the GEF and are still under preparation , thus not all tasks have been identified.
Napas Modernization forms part of Task XII Siodiversity Conservation Investment
0 '
b 



ANNEX D
Page 1 of 6
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Indi2enous Peoples Development Plan
1.    The following is a summary of the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP),
which is detailed in document No. 18 of Annex H, Project File. It was prepared by the
Government of Panama with guidance from the Bank, and involved a participative
approach, including information sharing of project proposals with the principal indigenous
peoples represented in the project area, as well as staff and specialists from Government,
NGO and other institutions that deal with the indigenous communities in question.
Literature and census reviews and a wide range of interviews were carried out. Although
five ethnic groups exist in the project area, the great majority are Ngobe-Bugle and
Embera-Wounaan which were the two groups dealt with principally for the preparation of
the IPDP.
Background
2.    In the Sustainable Rural Development Component area (Provinces of Veraguas
and Herrera), the Ngobe-Bugle people, totaling approximately 7,006 inhabitants, live in 66
scattered communities. In the second component, Biodiversity Conservation, there are
four ethnic groups. The Ngobe-Bugle, the Terire and Bribri in the western part of the
country, in and around the protected areas (PA) of Amistad and Bastimento. In the
Darien PA, the ethnic group in and outside the Park (including its buffer zone) is the
EmberA-Wounaan, with approximately 18,000 people.
3.    The majority of the Ngobe-Bugle and the Embera-Wounaan are located in remote
rural areas. Of the five poorest areas in the country, four are in Ngobe-Bugle territory.
The statistics are appalling: 89.6 percent of these households are poor, 76 percent are in
extreme poverty, over 90 percent of households are headed by women; of every ten
children between six and nine years of age, seven are in a very critical nutritional state. In
Caflazas district, of 427 indigenous households interviewed in the last census, 426 had no
electricity, and 395 no potable water. In indigenous lands in the poverty area, eighty
percent of the land has been deforested, and while there is considerable community
interest in reforestation, there have been instances of lack of agreement as to ownership of
reforested lands outside the Comarcas (indigenous governed lands) as the State considers
lands reforested with Government financial assistance but without formal tenure to belong
to the Government, whereas the indigenous groups claim it is theirs. Sources of income
include: employment in commercial agriculture, mostly by men who migrate to these
areas, artifacts sales, and some sales of agricultural produce. The report stated in para. 1
provides more details of the basic needs situation in indigenous communities.



ANNEX D
Page 2 of 6
4.    Due to legal ambiguity, the Embera-Wounaan Comarca is superposed on the
Darien National Park, as 44 percent of the Comarca is within the Park's boundaries. At
present a solution is being negotiated with INRENARE which must be satisfactory to both
sides, and in particular the indigenous communities which have lived there before the Park
was created.
5.    Many of the above problems are structural, and represent the meeting of two very
different cultures. The indigenous communities economies--although technologically still
at a subsistence level--have been selectively penetrated by certain aspects of the market
economy. These two systems, subsistence and market, which coexist in time and space
in the indigenous communities, despite the fact that they are so different culturally as well
as chronologically, places these communities in a difficult situation. On the one hand, they
can no longer continue with their traditional subsistence economy, as they have lost much
of the material base for such a system (e.g., land degradation which reduces productive
capacity). On the other hand, they cannot relate effectively to a market economy whose
principles (e.g., generate profits in a private property system, access to credit and
technologies) and levels of complexity, values and beliefs are so foreign to their own.
6.    Thus, the communities are trapped between a past that they can no longer preserve
as they do not have control over all the necessary elements, particularly the economic
ones, and a present which they cannot control as the market economy has excluded them
from many of its benefits.
7.    The result of these structural contradictions has been, among others, increasing
material poverty and the consequent social decay. Some of the indigenous groups are no
longer able to relate to the forces of nature in a culturally, socially and economically
congruent fashion. Their culture, traditions and territories are converted to merchandise
in a market economy increasingly out of their control and comprehension: the trees are
extracted as timber often without their approval, and portions of their land have been
deforested and taken over by latino (colonist) farmers.
8.    There has been a considerable number of assistance programs to indigenous
peoples, increasing during the last thirty years. Most of these programs have had limited
success however, because they have not responded to the basic problems mentioned
above. These programs have either tried to glorify the past and tried to reconstruct it (the
separatist model), or alternately have stressed modernization and tried to insert the
communities directly into the market economy (the assimilative model). Neither of these
are adequate or effective in assisting the communities in a sustainable fashion, nor do they
take into account their basic structural configurations.
9.    Despite these difficult problems and subsistence economies, indigenous people still
retain much of their culture, considerable unrealized economic potential exists in their
areas, and they are gaining increasing political awareness. Their lands are rich in



ANNEX D
Page 3 of 6
biodiversity, energy, minerals and the groups have a great reserve of knowledge on
sustainable development as demonstrated by the fact that they have been managing forest
resources for centuries.
10.   These problems have resulted in a number of basic principles which many
indigenous peoples are now trying to follow to guiding their development. These would
also help guide the project's specific areas of action.
*  The recognition in principle and practice, of the indigenous peoples basic
human rights to their culture, their lifestyle and their ancestral territories.
Effective administration of indigenous reserves and their natural resources,
according to current Comarca and national legislation.
*  The adaption of selective practices from the market/western economy at their
own speed. In this context, training becomes of great importance, in particular
to strengthen the organizational structures to better deal with western society,
as well as to introduce new technologies and management skills.
*  In development actions, dealing withboth the immediate problems faced by
indigenous groups (e.g. poverty, lack of technology, degradation of resources),
as well as the more structural/societal problems related to maintaining their
cultures and forms of government.
Plan of Action
11.   Goal: Improvement of the living conditions of indigenous peoples based on the
sustainable development of natural resources and culturally appropriate benefits, including
technical assistance and training on legal and natural resource management issues, and
investment funds both for income producing activities, particularly the revitalization
agricultural and agroforestry systems, as well as small basic infrastructure. Although the
legal context is different inside a Comarca, which, within the Panamanian legal system has
certain autonomous attributes, the same developmental principles would be applied to
indigenous communities or population outside the Comarcas.
12.   Objectives:
* Provide technical assistance and training in order to: i) promote the general
awareness of indigenous rights to members of the communities in the project
area, both indigenous and non-indigenous; and ii) improve their livelihoods
systems (be they forest based, on-farm or off-farm). In concordance with the
project's participatory and gender approach, the beneficiary population would
be involved in the design and implementation of specific project activities. To
facilitate such participation, the project would also help strengthen indigenous



ANNEX D
Page 4 of 6
communities' local organizations by providing training on organizational
matters and project management.
*  Improve general knowledge related to legal matters affecting indigenous
peoples. '
*  As a complement to training/extension efforts, the project would seek to
facilitate the access to its financial and technical resources so the indigenous
communities can plan, coordinate and execute small infrastructure and
productive activities in an economically and environmentally sustainable
fashion. For the implementation of the above activities it is important to keep
in mind gender, age and cultural considerations, among them: i) increasing
women's participation in all activities and decision-making; ii) to plan, design
and execute training programs that integrate indigenous values and beliefs, with
special emphasis on indigenous youth; and iii) in as much as possible, utilize
indigenous project staff from similar ethnic groups, increasing their numbers
over time as local community members are trained.
13.   Strategies/Operating Principles
The proposed project would, where practicable, utilize the following basic
strategies for implementing the project with indigenous communities:
(a)    A participatory approach. Starting from information sharing and
consultation, the project will promote a process which include the gradual
appropriation by the indigenous communities of the resources that have
been facilitated by the project, with increasing autonomy from the project.
The transfer of resources (by the project) and its appropriation (by the
recipients) would be conducted in a manner consistent with the cultural
capacity defined by the communities' ability to assimilate project resources.
(b)    Institutional Strengthening. This includes: planning and executing
mechanisms to strengthen traditional structures and institutions; guiding
and training communities relative to the operation of the market economy;
support to community leaders to participate in wider national and
international forums so that they may familiarize themselves with ethno-
development issues in other areas; training leaders to assume representative
roles. Capacity building is needed in the fields of administration,
technology, finance, leadership and vocational skills. Members of the
' The World Bank is in conversation with the Government to undertake a national-level land
administration project which could deal with the modernization of the registry and cadastre and major
land regularization/titling activities, including the Comarcas. The RPNR Project's possibilities in this
field are more limited, as clarified in the project description



ANNEX D
Page 5 of 6
communities that have, or acquire the skills through project training, would
participate in project implementation as extensionists, administrators,
agricultural technicians, financial administrators, etc.
(c)   Development respecting cultural diversity. Modernization programs must
not imply a threat to the continuity of the indigenous culture. Channeling
funds to the community is not the end in itself, but rather it is the
community-lead process of diagnosis, identification and preparation of
investments, and their continued use and increasing autonomous
management of these investments in a culturally sustainable fashion, that is
the project's principal objective in these communities. Reducing external
dependence is equally important to achieve self-sufficiency. Indigenous
cultures have a great deal of knowledge related to sustainable development
which, given the juncture at which many communities find themselves,
between one culture and the other, can, at this time, disappear, or be
revitalized and utilized not only by the participating communities, but other
communities in the country as well. This is true for all the project
components, not just the investments/subprojects, but also training,
organization, institutional strengthening, and other proposed project
activities. It is equally important for indigenous youth.
(d)   A gender approach. Special efforts will be made in order to target
resources to indigenous women. Women's role in the communities is
becoming increasingly important, considering that many of the men must
travel away for long periods for employment purposes, leaving women to
head most of the households. They are particularly adept at various
activities including: diversifying from agriculture to e.g., artisanal and
ethno- and ecotouristic activities. Contact with the market economy has
brought a change in economic activities towards commerce and
interchange with other communities: women have taken the lead in these
new activities. Additionally, women are assuming more important political
and representational roles which should be encouraged through proper
training.
(e)   Awareness of Indigenous Space and Time Dimensions. The above
described operating principles are all theoretical if indigenous space and
time dimensions are not properly understood and applied in practice. Such
notions as efficiency, effectiveness, rationality, fixed time periods have
very different meaning in each culture. As an example, time is seen in
indigenous cultures as the movement created by the encounter between the
past and the present, whereas in western culture "time is money". A
development strategy, a subproject, a training course, a type of
organization which has been very successful in other market/western type



ANNEX D
Page 6 of 6
communities, may be an utter failure in indigenous communities. Thus,
project promoters, which as much as possible must be from the same ethnic
group, must allow the communities great freedom in developing their plans
and projects, and avoid at all costs trying to impose outside ideas. They
must be facilitators of the communities expressing their own ideas within
the values of their culture.
14.   Components
Most activities in the project areas, including the indigenous areas, are demand-driven by
the communities, so as to respect their priorities and cultural sensitivities. Thus, it is not
possible to detail exactly what the project actions would be. However, from the meetings
held with indigenous groups during project preparation, the following are likely or
indicative areas of project action.
1. Technical Assistance and Training
Training of indigneous NGO's or NGO's that assist indigenous groups;
Participatory planning in indigenous communities to produce community
action plans and priorized investment needs;
Legal Aspects (land tenure, natural resources use, indigenous rights);
Technical Aspects (productive activities, project management);
Institutional development and strengthening of indigneous organizations
(planning, decision-making, strenghtening leadership).
2. Project Preparation and Investment (Subprojects)
Productive infrastructure and income-producing activities
(agriculture, agroforestry, ecotourism);
Reviving and utilizing traditional knowledge;
Buffer Zone management;
Study tours, participation in national and international fora that deal with
indigenous issues;
15.   Institutional Issues and Budget. The above component and institutional issues
and budget must be worked out in greater detail. Funds in the proposed Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), which would begin activities before the project is actually
declared effective, would be utilized to complete these aspects of the IPDP.
annexdl.doc; tresierra/raine/uquillas 3/19/97



Annex E
Page 1 of 5
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997  1998  1999   2000   2001   Total
A. Sustainable Rural Development
1. Institutional and Community Training,
Organization and Planning
a. Training and Rural Organization                  0.8   1.5   1.0    0.0   0.0    3.2
b. Production Technology Development                0.7   0.8   0.6    0.5   0.4    3.0
c. Production Support                               0.3   0.3   0.3    0.4   0.3        1.6
Subtotal Institutional and Community Training,
Organization and Planning                          1.8   2.6   1.9    0.9   0.7    7.9
2. Fund for Sustainable Agricultural Rural Development  1.9   3.4   3.8    3.7   2.9   15.7
Subtotal Sustainable Rural Development              3.7   6.0   5.7    4.6   3.6   23.6
B. Biodiversity Conservation
1. Pacific Zone Protected Area Management           0.3   0.1   0.1    0.2   0.1    0.9
2. Atlantic Biological Corridor                     1.7   2.2   2.5    2.5   1.9   10.8
Subtotal Biodiversity Conservation                  2.0   2.3   2.6    2.7   2.0    11.6
C. Project Coordinating Unit                        1.0   0.7   0.7    0.6   0.6    3.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 6.7   9.1   9.0    7.9   6.3    39.0



Annex E
Page 2 of 5
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
L Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
2. Buildings                              0.0   0.1       -      -      -    0.1
3. Facilities                             0.2   0.3    0.4   0.2   0.2    1.2
Subtotal Civil Works                      0.2   0.3   0.4   0.2   0.2    1.3
B. Equipment
1. Computer and Office Equipment          0.3   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1    1.0
2. Office Equipment                       0.1   0.1    0.0   0.0        -    0.2
3. Conununication Equipment               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
4. Machinery                              0.0   0.0       -      -      -   0.0
6. Training Equipment                     0.0   0.0       -      -      -    0.1
7. FieldEquipment                         0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
8. Fumniture                              0.0   0.0              -      -    0.0
Subtotal Equipment                        0.6   0.5   0.3   0.3    0.2    1.9
C. Vehicles                               0.7   0.5   0.2   0.1    0.0    1.5
D. Training                               0.6   0.6   0.5    0.2   0.2   2.1
E. Consultants and Technical Assistance
1. Studies                                0.7   0.5   0.1   0.1    0.2    1.6
2. International Technical Assistance     0.0   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.3    1.7
3. Local Technical Assistance             1.2   1.7   2.3    1.6   1.3   8.1
Subtotal Consultants and Technical Assistan    1.9   2.5   2.8   2.3    1.8  11.3
F. Rural Development and Biodiversity Subpro    1.9   3.4   3.8   3.7   2.9   15.7
Total Investment Costs                    5.8   7.9   7.9   6.9   5.2  33.8
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries                   0.3   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.4    1.9
B. Inputs                                 0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
C. Transportacion                         0.2   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.1    1.2
D. Operation and Maintenance              0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5    1.9
Total Recurrent Costs                     0.8    1.2   1.1   1.1    1.0   5.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                       6.7   9.1    9.0   7.9   6.3   39.0



Annex E
Page 3 of 5
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Local
IBRD         GEF       Communities      GOP          Total      For.  (ExcL Duties &
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %    Exch. Taxes) Taxes
A. Civil Works
1. CW- Sustainable Rural
Development                     0.0  80.0       -     -      -     -    0.0  20.0    0.1   0.1        -    0.0     0.0
2. CW-Biodiversity
Conservation                    0.2  17.0    0.9  73.0    0.0   4.0    0.1   6.0    1.2   3.1        -    1.2    0.1
Subtotal Civil Works            0.2  19.6    0.9  70.0    0.0   3.8    0.1   6.6    1.3   3.3         -    1.2    0.1
B. Goods /a
1. Equip.-Sustainable Rural
Development                     1.2  82.2    0.2  11.5    0.0   0.7    0.1   5.7    1.4   3.6    1.3    0.0        0.1
2. Equip-Biodiversity
Conservation                    0.3  17.0    1.1  73.0    0.1   4.0    0.1   6.0    1.6   4.0    1.5    0.0        0.1
3. Equip.-PCU                   0.2  75.0    0.0   7.0       -     -    0.0  18.0    0.2   0.6    0.2    0.0       0.0
Subtotal Goods                  1.6  50.0    1.3  41.0    0.1   2.2    0.2   6.8    3.2   8.2    3.0    0.0        0.2
C. Consultant Services
1. Consultants-Sustainable Rural
Development                     3.6  45.5    3.6  46.3    0.2   2.8    0.4   5.4    7.8  20.1    2.1    5.7          -
2. Consulltants-Biodiversity    0.3  17.0    1.1  73.0    0.1   4.0    0.1   6.0    1.5   3.9         -    1.5     0.0
3. Consultants-PCU              1.3  75.0    0.1   7.0       -     -    0.3  18.0    1.7   4.5        -    1.7       -
Subtotal Consultant Services    5.1  46.2    4.9  43.8    0.3   2.5    0.8   7.5   11.1  28.4    2.1    9.0        0.0
D. Training
1. Training - Sustainable Rural
Development                     1.3  78.7    0.2  14.0    0.0   0.9    0.1   6.4    1.7   4.3    0.0    1.6        0.1
2. Training - Biodiversity
Conservation                    0.0  17.0    0.1  73.0    0.0   4.0    0.0   6.0    0.2   0.5         -    0.2     0.0
Subtotal Training               1.3  72.2    0.4  20.2    0.0   1.2    0.1   6.4    1.9   4.8    0.0    1.8        0.1
E. Fund                         0.3  76.0       -     -    0.1  19.0    0.0   5.0    0.4   1.1        -    0.4     0.0
F. Rural Development and
Biodiversity Subprojects
1. Rural Development
Subprojects                    10.3  72.6       -     -    3.2  22.4    0.7   5.0   14.2  36.4    0.0   13.5       0.7
2. BiodiversitySubprojects      0.4  76.0       -     -    0.1  19.0    0.0   5.0    0.6   1.4        -    0.5     0.0
Subtotal Rural Development
and Biodiversity Subprojects    10.7  72.7      -     -    3.3  22.3    0.7   5.0   14.8  37.8    0.0   14.0       0.7
G. Incremental recurrent
costs
2. Operation and Maintenance
O&M-Sustainable Rural
Development                     0.6  22.6       -     -      -     -    2.2  77.4    2.8   7.2        -    2.8     0.1
O&M-Biodiversity                0.2  23.0    0.6  64.7    0.0   4.0    0.1   8.3    0.9   2.2         -    0.8     0.0
O&M-PCU                         1.1  75.0    0.1   7.0       -     -    0.3  18.0    1.5   3.8        -    1.5     0.0
Subtotal Incremental
recurrentcosts                  1.9  37.7    0.7  12.9    0.0   0.7    2.5  48.8    5.2  13.2         -    5.1     0.1
H. PPF                          1.2  96.4       -     -      -     -    0.0   3.6    1.2   3.1    0.2    1.0       0.0
Total                          22.5  57.7    8.1  20.8    3.8   9.8    4.6  11.7   39.0 100.0    5.3   32.5        1.2
\a Including vehicles.



Annex E
Page 4 of 5
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Suggested Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(USS W00)
Disbursement
Loan Amount                   %
A. Civil Works
1. CW-Sustainable Rural Development                          50.0                       80.0
2. CW-Biodiversity Conservation                             200.0                       80.0
B Goods /a
1. Goods - Rural Sustainable Development                   1,100.0            100 FE, 80 LE \a
2. Goods - Biodiversity Conservation                         300.0            100 FE, 80 LE \a
3. Goods - PCU                                              200.0             100 FE, 80 LE \a
C. Consultant Services
1. Consultants-Sustainable Rural Development               3,000.0                     100.0
2. Consultants-Biodiversity                                  500.0                      100.0
3. Consultants - PCU                                       1,700.0                      100.0
D. Training
1. Training - Sustainable Rural Development                1,200.0                     100.0
2. Training - Biodiversity Conservation                     200.0                       100.0
3. Training - PCU                                            100.0                     100.0
E. Rural Development and Biodiversity Subprojects
1. Rural Development Subprojects                           9,600.0                     100.0
2. Biodiversity Subprojects                                 400.0                       100.0
F. Operating Costs
1. Sustainable Rural Development                            650.0                 90, 60, 40 \b
2. Biodiversity                                              100.0                90, 60, 40 \b
3. PCU                                                      800.0                 90, 60, 40 \b
G. PPF                                                     1,200.0
Unallocated                                                1,200.0
Total                                                     22,500.0
Loan amounts financed by IBRD
a\ FE: Foreign Expenditures, LE: Local Expenditures
b\ 90% the first two years after Effective Date, 60% third and fourth year, and subsequently 40%



Annex E
Page 5 of 5
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Standard
Disbursement
IBRD     Semester  Disbursement During Semester         Cumulative Disbursement          Profile /b
FY       Ending       Amount        % of total          Amount       % of total         % of total
1997 /a      Jun-97             -            0%                   -           0%                0%
1998      Dec-97            0.7            3%                 0.7           3%                3%
Jun-98            1.5           7%                 2.2          10%               10%
1999      Dec-98            3.7           16%                 5.9          26%               26%
Jun-99           2.7           12%                 8.6          38%              *38%
2000      Dec-99             3.5          16%                12.1          54%               54%
Jun-00           2.8           12%                14.9          66%               66%
2001      Dec-00             3.5          16%                18.4          82%               82%
Jun-01            1.9           8%                20.3          90%               90%
2002      Dec-01            0.9            4%                21.2          94%               94%
Jun-02            1.3           6%                22.5         100%              100%
Total                           22.5          100%
a/ The Loan is assumed to become effective during the last quarter of FY 1997 or the first quarter of FY98.
b/ Standard Disbursement Profile for all sectors in Panama (June 1995)
o:\Uat\Uatad\maurizio\panama\buff\annex-e.xls
TRoncal, MGuadagni    4/17/97 14:42






ANNEX F
Page 1 of 4
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Plannine. Budeetine, Monitoring and Evaluation and Regorting
1.    Due to the pilot nature of some of the methodologies utilized in this project,
effective planning and active monitoring are essential to guide adjustments during project
implementation and evaluate success relative to project objectives. Planning, monitoring
and reporting would be the responsibility of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) with
MIDA and INRENARE. Financial Indicators, Status of Legal Covenants, Key
Performance Indicators for each component, and Project Impact Indicators are in
Appendixes 1 through 4.of this Annex
2.    Planning and Budgeting. The PCU would prepare an Annual Operating Plan
(AOP) for each project year based on the phasing of project objectives as indicated in the
project cost tables and implementation schedule (Annex C). The AOPs would include a
detailed list of activities to be carried out for each component and subcomponent, their
timetable, physical inputs required, updated unit prices and total costs, and counterpart
funding requirements, based on the disbursement percentages of the Bank Loan for each
category of expenditure. MIDA and INRENARE would include the resource
requirements for this project in their annual budget submission to the Ministry of Finance.
The PCU would submit the AOPs and budget requests to the Bank by October of each
project year.
3.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluating project activities is one
of the most important management tools particularly for the rural development
component. The differentiation between the two would be clearly established from the
beginning as there is often confusion on this theme: monitoring corresponds to the
continuous assessment of project implementation in relation to agreed schedules, and the
use of inputs, infrastructure and services by project beneficiaries. Evaluation is the
periodic assessment of a project's relevance, performance, efficiency and impact (both
expected and unexpected) in relation to stated objectives.
4.    While the project would have a small M&E unit made up of the unit head, with
considerable project field experience, and an assistant, most of the project monitoring
would be carried out on contract by a specialized institution who would also assist in
setting up the systems from the beginning of the project. In addition to the project's
M&E, two other supervision levels would also exist: at the community level by the
Sustainable Rural Development Committee, and by the NGOs, government agencies, and
executing agencies that would assist in project implementation. From a financial
standpoint, use of funds would also be supervised by the communities, project auditors
(internal and external), and the National Controllers Office.



ANNEX F
Page 2 of 4
5.   In addition to monitoring information collected for progress reporting as described
below, the project would carry out base-line surveys to measure changes in the target
population.
6.    The PCU would prepare cummulative quarterly reports at the end of each calendar
year. The quarterly reports would provide evaluations of progress and impact per quarter,
which would enable MIDA and INREANRE to fine-tune activities, in agreement with the
Bank. The quarterly reports would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of
each quarter.
7.    Quarterly and annual reports would include the following sections:
(a)   Summary of project implementation would give a general description of
project implementation during the period under review, by component,
including the project's overall status, adherence to the AOPs and
development impact to date. In addition, this section should comment on
project administration issues, including fund flows, government budgeting,
disbursements, procurement, accounts and audits and technical assistance.
The status of actions proposed and issues unresolved from the previous
quarterly report, and actions proposed for the following period, would also
be included.
(b)   Physical indicators would provide quantitative indication of project
implementation by component and subcomponent as identified in
Appendixes 3 and 4.
(c)   Financial performance. This section would provide a summary of funds
released by each financier, including government, during the quarter by
project component and disbursement category (Appendix 1). Procurement
methods and status by disbursement category, estimated future
disbursement, status of accounts and audits would also be provided in
section (a) above.
(d)   Status of legal covenants. This section would represent a summary of
compliance with the project's legal covenants with cross-reference to the
legal documents and the SAR. The information would be presented as
shown in Appendix 2.
8.    The format of quarterly and annual reports would be agreed upon with the Bank at
Project start-up. A draft outline of quarterly reports follows:



ANNEX F
Page 3 of 4
A.    General Status
1.    Major recent events
2.    Adherence to Annual Operating Plans
3.    Development impact to date
B. Project administration
1. Fund flows and government budgeting
2.    Disbursements
3.    Procurement
4.    Accounts and audits
5.    Technical assistance
C.   Monitoring and evaluation (by subcomponent)
1.    Progress on achievement of physical indicators
2.    Progress on achievement of financial indicators
3.    Progress on achievement of impact indicators
D.   Component by component and subcomponent, discussion of status,
problems and recommended actions (who should do what, by when)
Attachment 1. Summary status of recommended actions from last report
Attachment 2. Tables on physical indicators
Attachment 3. Tables of Financial Indicators
Attachment 4. Table showing status of legal covenants.
9.    In addition to the above sections, annual reports would include an analysis of
changes between the AOPs and the activities executed during the period under review.
The annual review would have more elements of measuring project impact (evaluation)
and would include such elements as the status of:
* Community participation and role of the project and executing agencies in
promoting it;
* Technical assistance and training programs for the communities and particiapting
agencies;
* Functioning of all aspects of the subproject cycle;
* Participation of buffer zone communities in the management of protected areas
through the joint community/INRENARE management committees;
* Participation of women in project activities;
* Acceptance of indigenous groups of project activities and the methodologies used
to include their participation.
10.   A list of monitoring and impact indicators is presented in Appendixes 3 and 4
respectively from which the following ten have been condensed as prime indicators of
projectprogress in meeting its objective and ensuring satisfactory implementation.



ANNEX F
Page 4 of 4
Quantitative indicators are in the Appendices. It should be noted that as much of the
project actions are demand-oriented, many of the indicators in the rural development
component are indicative.
(a)   Performance degree of the organizational start-up and operation of the
agricultural fund for sustainable rural development's project coordination
unit.
(b)   Number of SDCs organized and trained.
(c)   Number of technicians, promotors, NGOs and service enterprises involved
in SDCs training and organizational activities, as well as events carried-out
and beneficiaries attended.
(d)   Number of projects identified, prepared under negotiation and approved by
the Fund, and funds disbursed.
(e)   Number of projects under execution with Fund resources.
(f)    Women and Indigenous groups participation in subprojects.
(g)   Mitigation degree of degrading effects in protected areas and the
Mesoamerican Corridor.
(h)   Meeting infrastructure targets in protected areas and constitution of
public/private protected area management committees.
(i)   Increase in soil surface through recovery and conservation measures.
(j)    Number of ecotourism projects identified, prepared, under negotiation
approved and under execution.



ANNEX F
Appendix I
Page 1 of 1
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Financial Indicators
1.    Expenditure during period and to date by project component and subcomponents.
2.    IBRD disbursements during period and to date by component and subcomponents.
3.    Procurement by category: actual, in process and planned.
4.    Contributions by local beneficiary organizations during period and to date.
5.    Status of current audit reports.
6.    Status of actions taken following the previous year recommendations as expressed by the
auditing firm in its management letter.
annexf
raine
17/1/97



ANNEX F
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 1
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement       Section          Covenant         Present Status   Original        Revised          Description of  Comments
Type                             Fulfillment      Fulfillment      Covenants
Date            Date
Covenant Type                                                            Present Status:
I      =      Accounts and Audits                                        C      =      Covenant complied with
2      =      Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  CD          Complied with after delay
3      =      Flow and utilization of project funds                      CP     =      Complied with partially
4      =      Counterpart funding                                        NC    =       Not complied with
5      =      Management aspects of the project of executing agency
6      =      Environmental Covenants
7      =      Involuntary resettlement
8      =      Indigenous peoples
9      =      Monitoring review and reporting
10     =      Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9                                                                    >
11     =      Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation                                                        ,
12     =      Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutaional actions                                                  m m >
13     =      Other
o x



Annex F
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 6
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Note: Indicators for subprojects are indicative and will depend on priorities defined in demand-driven Community Action Plans.
..^.  COMPO...T/SU.-..MP............N.T...............  ..
1. RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Community Organization and Training
Sub-component
Communitv Oruanization
Creation of Sustainable Development Commitees         SDC                                        unit           20      100     100                     220
Trainina
Technicians                                           beneficiaries                              people           4      16      10                      30
Promoters                                             beneficiaries                              people         40    200    200                        440
Productive Technology Development
Sub-component
Agricultural Producton System
Prototype Equipment
Validation                                              Parcels                                    unit            40      60      60      60      60    280
Germoplasma maint.                         uni             4       6       6       6        6      28
Seed beds                                  unit            4       6       6       6       6       28
Goat Mod.                                  uni            12                                       1 2
Difussion                                             Crops & pasture                            unit                  180      180      90      50    500
Goat Mod.                                  uni                    12      24                       36
Training                                               Courses                                    unit           24      36       11                      71
Seminars                                   uni            56      36      29      10              131
In-service training                        people         12      20      20       8               60
Field trips                                uni            28      12      12       6               58
Days in the field                          unit                    8       6                       1 4    S 
Producive Projects                                     PR-1                                       unk           200    225    225    225    225   1100 I             I   t 
PR-2                                       uni           120     135     135     135     135    660    'fi
PR-3                                       unit           88      88      88      88      88    440    O  X
Small Irrigation Works
Communitary irrigation                                 Project                                    uni              5       5      15      15      10      50
Small irrigation                                       Project                                    unit                    20      30      30      20    100



Annex F
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 6
.  ACTM1Y  ~~~~~~~.e.* .......                                                                       ... .                      OM
SM ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                     .. ..   ...   .. .. . .. .
Social Reforestation
Plantations and enterpnses
Wood products plantations                           Area                                       has                 1000   1000   1000   1000   4000
Fruit Plantations                                   Area                                      has                   250    250    250    250   1000
Nursery enterprises                                 Project                                   unit            3       6                                9
Seed enterprises                                    Project                                   unit            3                                        3
Training
International technical assistance                   Consultant                                rn/rn           2                                       2
Training
Seed gathering and processing                      Courses                                    unit            2       2       2                       6
Seed production                                    Beneficiaries                             families        30      30      30                      90
Nursering                                          Beneficiaries                             families        30      30                              60
Forest Enterprises Management                      Technicians                                people          3       6                               9
Production Support Services
Sub-component
Agricultural marketing services
Institubion-building
Support to Producer Organizations
Training
Technicians                                        Beneficiaries                             people          6                                       6
Other public and private                          Beneftciaries                              people          5       5       5       5       5      25
Training aboard                                   Travel                                     unit            1       3                               4
Observation trips                                 Assistantships                             unit            2                                       2
Extension for producers
Buyers directory:
By district                                      Directories                                unit                    2                               2
At the national level                            Directories                                unht                                    1               1
Information system                                 Systems                                   unit                                    1               1   e 
Determination of marketable offer                  Study                                     unit                                    1               1  0  
Assistance to P0 in purchase and sale contracts    Contracts                                 unit            6       8      15      11              40   t 
Technical Assistance. Intern. consultants IOX
International consultant                                                                                                                                 F
Information system operation                      Consultants                                in/in                   1                               1      w%
Classification standards                          Consultants                                in/in                           1                       1



Annex F
Appendix 3
Page 3 of 6
- COMPONENTfSUB-COMwM  ..................                                                             .        .       .. -f4   l N  ::A   ................. : - :.::  ...IT.
~~~~~~~.......         ........  ............ ..... ...............   .   ..   ........   ......                                    .. .  . ....... .......... ....
ACTIVtY              ........t.2  .... .T...
Support to Retailer Groups
Promotion of Retailer Chains                        Organizations                               unt             2        2       1                        5
International technical assistance
National consultant I
Warehouse administration                           Consultants                                in/in                             2                        2
Supply plant                                       Consultants                m./m.                                             2                        2
Internat. consultant I
Retailer chains                                    Consultants                                 n/n                              1                        1
Marketing Extension Service
Promotion and organization of:
New groups                                         Organeations                                unit           10      20       45      25              100
New associations                                   Organizations                               unit            2       4        9       5               20
New  organizations strengthening and support          Organizaitons                               unit            4        4       6       6               20
Training of extensionists                             Beneficiaries                               people           5      11      18        6              40
Supplying agreements                                  Agreements                                  unit            4        4       4       4        4      20
Establishment of 2nd. degree marketing P0             Organizations                               unit                                              1       1
Local Technical Assistance and Training
Commercial Extension System                          Consultant                                  m/m              1               1                        2
Trarning
Assistantships                                       Beneficiaries                               Prod.            1                                        1
Courses for REs                                      Beneficiaries                               unit            2        4       4       4               14
Radio programs                                       Global                                      $ thous.       10       10      10      10       10      50
Farmers Fairs
Establishment of fairs
At the local level                                   Fairs                                       unit                     4      11      14       25      54
At the district level                                Fairs                                       unit            8       14      24      18      26       90
Participation of POs in fairs                        Organizations                               unit                     4      16      34      60      114
Rutral Concentration Markets                            Markets                                     unit                     1       2        2               5    e
Technical assistance     an TiZ
Consult. in Rural Markets(ont.-)                     Consultant                                  m/m             1        1                                2    (D :1X
Consult. in Design and localiz (nat.-I)              Consuitant                                  m/m                              2       2                4    u-~ z
Training
Assistantships. Market operation                    Beneficiaries                               people          4                                         4
Seminar:Urban Food Planning                         Beneficiaries                               unit            1                                         0



Annex F
Appendix 3
Page 4 of 6
Support to Municipalbtes
Development of Master Plans                         Plan                                     unit            6       7                              13
Plan design for typical public markets              Plans                                    unit            1                                       1
International Technical Assistancse
Mabrket management                                 Consultant                               mn/m                    3                               3
Training
Seminar. Market Urban Pbanning                     Seminars                                 unit                    1                               1
Courses within the country                         Courses                                  unit                    2       2       2       2       8
Beneficdaries                            peopbe                 50      50      50      50    200
Publications
Marketing guirelines                               Copies                                   unXt                  250                             250
Munkcipal Markets Master Plans                     Copies                                   unit                  325                             325
RuralA Aro-indsr
Training and Technkcal Assistance
RAI Promoters                                       Beneficiaries                            peopie          6                                       6
RAI Volunteers                                      Beneficiaries                            people         40                                      40
Investm7ent Promnoton
Small Development Operations                        SDO                                      project                 5      15      13       2      35
Regional Projects                                   RPs                                      project                 2       2       2               6
Forestry Projects                                   FPs                                      project                 2       2       2               6
Productive Infrastructure Service
Communal
Training of road workers                              Beneficiaries                            people         10      23      23      23      23    102
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of
rural roads                                          Extension                                kms.           40      92      92      92      92    408
2. BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION COMPONENT
NAPAS Modernization
(Formns part of Biodiversity Conservation                                                                                                                       : 
Component)                                                                                                                                                     3  >c
Strenathenina of NAPA's Plannina gf
Informnaton system                                  Study                                    unit            1                                       1    o X
Equipment                                lot             2       4       6       4       2      18    o
Materials                                lot             2       6      12      16      18      54
SlNAP's Coordination and Planning                   Workshops                                unit            1       1       1       1       1       5



Annex F
Appendix 3
Page 5 of 6
'-- ''  G.M' ON' NTUB&COMP ENT    '--  INi-' A.5----                      -         --DICATOS   UNIT                                4 -          TOA
.~~~~~~ .    .,,,,.    -C M         4NT            IN      -01        .... ... ...........
..., .. ..... .  ,    ,   ,Cg. ...............                                         .............          ....   ... . .  ....... ... ........  ..  . .......  ... ........  ..... ..... .......
Systematization, up-dating and compatibilization
of the regulatory framework
Management Plans
Large Areas                                          Studies                                    unit             1       2                                3
Small Areas                                          Studies                                    unit             1       2       2                        5
Execution of Operational Plans                        Workshops                                   unit             4       6       8       12      10      40
National Technical Training Program
Evaluation of needs                                   Study                                       unit             1                                        1
Technical Training
DAPVS and Regional staff                              Courses                                    unit                     1        1       1       1       4
Workshops                                  unit                     2                2               4
Scholarships                               unit                     2       2        2       1       7
Coordination and Programming System
Financing mechanisms for PL                          Study                                      unit             1                                        1
Unit for SINAP's financing to PL                     Office                                     lot              1                                        1
Provision of Infrastructure
Adm. and Protec. Infrastructure
Works contract                                      Contract                                    unit            9        9       9       9        9      45
Maintenance                                         Contract                                    unit            9        9       9       9       9       45
Design                                              Contract                                    unit            1                                         1
Equipment, maint. for eq. adm. and prot              Contract                                    unit            9        9       9       9        9      45
Human Resource Strengthening
Technical Training
PA Staff                                           Workshops                                  unit                     1        1       2       2       6
Scholarships                               unit                     4       4        2       2      12
Fire prevention and control                              Equipment                                  lot              1                                        1    oq o  z
Q0 z
GCs Promotion                                         Workshops                                   unit             1       2       2       2        1       8    un QM
P. '*ti
Environmental training and education                  Study                                       unit            1                                         1    oX
Workshops                                  unit             4                                        4
Modules                                    unit            12      12      12       12              48



Annex F
Appendix 3
Page 6 of 6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...,..s                     &  ........     ............
.MPONENT/SUB-CO~MPON1... IND.........  ....    ----                                                             R
PA's Limits and demarkation
Titling
Farm titling                                       Titles                                   unht                  350   1000   1000   1000   3350
Delimitation of farms within the PAs               Measurement                              unit                  200    500    400              1100
Maps survey                                        Maps                                     unit            1       2                               3
Delimitatbon in PA s
Demarkation plan of priority limits                Study                                    unit            1                                       1
Negotiation and demarkation                        Contract                                 unit                    1       3       3               7
Demarkation of limits                              Paths                                    km                            200    540    200    940
Buoys                                    unit                   60      30                      90
Maintenance of limits                              Paths                                    km                            195    400              595
Buoys                                    unit                           60      90      90    240
Biodiversity Information and Planning*
Capacity Building for Biodiversity
Conservation Sustainable Use *
Biodiversity Conservation Investment Program *
3. PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
Local and international assistance
Establishment, organization and start-up of the PCU  Contracts                                Period          1                                       1
Management and Training System                       Contracts                                 Period         1       1                               2
Management and Evaluation System                     Contracts                                 Period         1       1       1       1       1       5   Pz r
Promotion, establishment of rural banks              Contracts                                Period          1       1       1                       3   oQ t e
External Audit                                       Contracts                                 Period         1       1       1       1       1       5   oy  X
*These three Subcomponents, with the exception of the NAPAS modernization which forms part of the Biodiversity Conservation Investment Subcomponent        F  S
(to be financed by IBRD and GOP) are still under preparation for GEF Co-Financed, thus indicators are not yet available. 



PANAMA                                                                                          Annex F
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT                                                                                    Appwxix 4
PROJECT IMPACT INDICATORS                                                                                    Page 1 of 5
COMPONENT 1: SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SUBCOMPONENT: COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION (Rural Training and Rural Organization)
Comnunity trainig und organization to udetake      Technical assistance, labor, trainig  See Anm= A                a. Bneficiaries (CDS, independent                  BE-line swwys
conmunal planning includirg diagnosis, then a     vehicles, equipment (office)                                     producen or other type of benefictaiecs)
cOmmunity action plan (CAP), and finally specific                                                                  who hve received seghening from
investments or sub-project that would operationalize                                                              the RPNR Project
the CAP.                                                                                                           b. Relation bdwee bencficiaics who have            Annual monitoring
recived sngthening and thoee who                  hvey  (AMS)
hAve vsbmitted project propoas.
c. Rclation between beneficiancs who have         AMS
recoved engthening and tbese woe
ptojects and donatios or credits hve
been approved.
d. Relation between beneficiaries who have        AMS
received strengthening and those who
have undeaken contrcts with NGOs,
telioca asistance saervice enterprie.
e. Events which hve been carried out,             Quately Reports
per type of training and topics presented         (QR)
 Participants per event and uwfines.            QR
g. Number of trained technicians and              QR
irplementation of ctivities in which they
have received training.
h. Familiy income level, labor use, net           Living Standard
caniing levels and satisfaction of basic          Measurement Survey
needs of RPNR Project beneficiary families.       (LSMS)
i. Relation between women who were                QR
organized to benefit from the RPNR Project
and total potential beneficiries.
j. Relation between women who have                 QR
received ognizational support  d                                                CD
number of conolidated groupn                                                       l
k. Relation betwe  the nmber of                   QR                                   > 
organized woman and donaons or                                                     1 
o x
credits grted                                                                   "  X
1. Relbtion bdween the ntaber of orgoiized        AMS                           ul
women (groups) aNW rpdymet of credits
grasted or fidfillnct of comsttments
related to donations
mL Ecoomic rsult of projects implemented          AMS
by wonn groups



Annex F
Appendix 4
Page 2 of 5
SUBCOMPONENT: PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT (Agricultural and Agroforestry Production System;
Mini-Irrigation; Social Reforestation)
..*.* .*.* .....*.* ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
W~ MPUT                                                                       _-
To facilitate the adoption process of agrnculural  Technical assistance, labor, tools and  See Annex A  a. Degree of Adoption of production systems.  Annual Monitoring Survey
and agroforestry lechnologies, tailored to the  equipment, inputs (seeds, others),                      b. Adoption rate of key technologies.        AMS
economic, natural resources, labor and possibil-  vehicles, training.                                  c. Land covered and farms adopting systems    AMS
Ries of the producer and his family.                                                                   and/or key technologies.
the CAP.                                                                                               d. Production per farm/systerms and economic  AMS
results for beneficiaries (CDS, independent
producers or other type of beneficiaries).
e. Production increases per farm.            AMS/Base-line Survey
f. Investments carried out at the farm lvel.  AMS/Base-line Survey
g. Number of partkcipant beneficiaries.      Quarterly Report (QR)
h. Number of beneficiaries per production    QR
and/or technology system.
0 tZ
o X
Ln



Annex F
Appendix 4
Page 3 of 5
SUBCOMPONENT: PRODUCTION SUPPORT (Marketing; Agro-industries; Feeder Roads)
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   .... .. . ..
Strengthening of pubic and private institutions  Technical assistance, training, labor,  See Annex A     a. Number of commercial and agro-industrial    Quarterly Report
reated to the provision of this service and the  vehicles, equipment (office), advertising,              projects implemented by beneficiaries supported   (QR)
managerial capacity of farmer marketing groups;  training material, civil works.                         by the RPNR Project.
promoting farmer markets in regional and sub-                                                            b. Adoption degree of technical recommend-     Annual Monitoring
reginal towns and cities and to assist provincial                                                        tions in commercialization and agro-industry.  Survey (AMS)
munkipal markets.                                                                                        c. Number of beneficiaries (CDSs, independent   QR
To increase value added at iocal level, increase                                                         producers or oher type of beneficiaries) who
farmers' income and promoterimprove links with                                                           comnercialize or have developed agro-industrial
the marketing circuits.                                                                                  projects.
To improve road access to social services,                                                               d. Number of small enterprie.                  OR
markets and create employment.                                                                           e. Increase in the volume of agro-transformed  AMS
production at the farm kvel.
f. Number of participant beneficiaries.       OR
g. Kilometers rehabilitated.                  OR
h. Communities and producers beneftted.       OR
i. Increase in transported production.        AMS
j. Reduction of transport costs.              AMS
k. Irrigated area.                            OR
fD(D 
x x
o  X



Annex F
Appendix 4
Page 4 of 5
COMPONENT 2: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT
SUBCOMPONENTS: (i) Strengthening of the National Protected Area System (NAPAS); (ii) Strengthening of Priority
Protected Areas (PAs); (iii) Buffer Zone Development; (iv) EcotourisnL
.~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~                                             .      ...... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  :.::::...:~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ~
To promote insitutional strengthening of INRENARE   Technical assistance, training, labor,  See Annex A  a. KmTS. of PA boundares which are ckarly    Quarterly Report (QR)
and in particular, the NAPAS; to develop and  vehicls, civil veks, equipmrrent                          and properly demarcated.
implement management plans por prion ary PAs;  (office, communications, country,                        b. Mitigation of degradation effects In protected    Annual Monitonng Survey
to establish in them basic infrastructure (e.g.,  training, electric), adverising,                      areas.                                       (AMS)
administrative, scientific, ecotouristic); to clarify                                                  c. Recommendations on the conservation of     AMS
the land tenure situation of the protected areas                                                       protected areas, included and executed in
through the titling of contiguous properties and                                                       individual production plans.
stopping the expansion of setters inside the                                                            d. Increases in soil surface with conservation  AMS
PAs; to promote envrnmental projects in the                                                            and recovery measures.
buffer Zones, including ecotouristic activities                                                        e. Increases in soil fertility, improved and  AMS
which would generate inrcome or the neighboring                                                        recovered.
comrnwnities, as wel as the PA system.                                                                 f. Number of ecotourstic projects implemented    OR
by beneficiaris (CDS, indepenrent poducers
or oter type of befaries) suported by
the RPNR Project.
9. Adoption rate of tecdnical r              AMS
on ecotourisi.
h. Number of wnml ecoturisc terpris          OR
in operation.
1.&1



Annex F
Appendix 4
Page 5 of 5
FUND FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT (FUSARD)
. :...... . ..   ....                                                                                                                                     ...,  :'.'...
.     ...  .. . ....... . .. ~    ~      ~     ...
OBJECTIVE                               INPUTS                      OUTPUTS                             INDICATORS                   MEASUREMENT
To finance on a matching grant basis, rural   Financial resources for subprojects,   See Annex A        a. Grant or credit beneficiaries.             Quarteriy Report (QR)
development activities and Investment sub-    technical assistance, training, equipment                 b. Grant or credit women beneficiaries.       QR
projects.                                     (ofrice, communications), vehicles.                       c. Sub-projects financed or donated in       QR
FUSARD will be involved, with different levels                                                          agricultural production systems, small irriga-
of responsiblity, in sub-project seletion,                                                             tion works and social reforestation; area
appraisal, approval, disbursemnt, monito4ing                                                            covered.
and technical follow-up.                                                                                d. Sub-projects financed or donated in       OR
commercialization, agro-industry and communal
infrastructure.
f. Payment delay situations                  Annual Monitoring Survey (AMS)
g. Payment delay causes.                     AMS
h. Revolving funds operating.                AMS
k.n 0.
H. ~
X
ul






ANNEX G
Page 1 of 5
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Community Subvrooects and Protected Areas
1.    The Sustainable Devepment Component is demand-driven, thus it is impossible to
accurately determine the allocation of project funds and thus carry out economic analysis
for the full project. However, indicative economic analysis was carried out on specific
subproject models identified by communities as being of interest to them during project
preparation. In addition, the analysis of selected protected areas was also carried out.
Environmental analysis is further detailed in document 13 of Annex H.
2.    The analysis results showed the economic feasibility of specific subprojects. Real
market prices were used for purchased inputs, as well as conservative levels of plant
capacity use; a conservative 12 percent discount rate; labor costs at official prices'
assuming that opportunity cost is the same as the official minimum wage. The models
(except forest plantations and agro-industries) were designed for a five-year period,
corresponding to the Project period; however, the working life of these models is
generally longer. The models' analyses are summarized in Table 1.
Forestry Subprojects
3.     Timber Seed Enterprises. A plant to process 100 kg. of seeds during a four
months/year period at real sale prices of $130/kg was designed. A 20 percent initial
capacity (considering staff inexperience) and a 70 percent final capacity yields an IRR of
22.2 percent and a $2716 net present value of that investment at a 12 percent discount
rate. The enterprise could bear a 25 percent price reduction, and an increase to 100
percent of its productive capacity and still yield an IRR of 15.6 percent, a benefit/cost
ratio of 1.14, and generate more than 400 workdays per year.
4.    Commercial nurseries. Nurseries having a capacity to produce up to 250,000
seedlings/year (200,000 timber-yielding and 50,000 fruit trees) would be established. Data
are based on the increase of the real demand under the incentives provided by the
Reforestation Law No. 24 of November 23, 1992. The initial fixed investment is
estimated at US$7,063, and the working capital for the first year would be financed.
Production would start at a 30 percent capacity and reach full production by the third
year; sales have been estimated at $0.15 per forest seedling and $0.50 per fruit seedling
(prices are below commercial prices2), in order to better access the market. At these
prices, the enterprise would yield a robust 24.3 percent IRR, and a $15,823 net present
Minimum wages are frequently not paid in the region.
2 The commercial price of the seedlings is $0.20 for timber-yielding seedlings and $0.60 for fruit tree
seedlings.



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 5
value at a 12 percent discount rate. When estimating sales at market prices, a 36 percent
IRR is obtained, and a benefit/cost ratio of 1.77.
Table 1. Analysis of Indicative Community Subproject (US$)
Activity        Plant       Fixed Invest-  Average    Averap     Man       RR      NPV        Codt
Cacity    mnot           cost        income     Days      (%)      (12%/yr.)  Benefit
Usage %l                 p/yr. (US$)    r       P/vr. No.}            -      Raio
Seeds Processkn  20-70      5,810         2,490      5,460       433       22.1    2,715      1.36
Nursery         50-100      7,063         24,8S0     48,500      790       24.3    15,823     1.36
Pine Plantatn. (1ha) n.s.   930           51         660         38        16.7     1,133     6.57
Cedar Plantatn(1 ha) n.s.   930           930        577         38        13.8       467     12.73
Plantat. (4000 has.) n.a.   2,576,100     2,576,100   2,713,043   29,287   18.8    25,040     9.94
Agrolndustry
Cheese processor  70-96     12,372        150,225    64,966      1,248     20.0    7,091      1.31
Coffee mIlN     55-75       26,604        53,186     157,265     624       12.5    2,178      1.03
Fruit processor    60-80    110,910       310,241    348,507     3,120     16.1    27,140     1.20
Wood            22-66       34,350        175,546    194,400     2,400     18.9    11,686    1.17
Agrculture
Technology      n.a.        n.a.          746        1,113       109       49.0    1,290      1.48
Squash Prod. (Iha) n.a.     n.a.          619        1,000       61         ..       340      1.61
Otoe Prod. (1 ha)*'  n.a.   n.a.          581        1,000       52                  374      1.61
*      Framework for 1 ha. or production in crop succession (rice, corn, beans, and cassava)
**     Otoe is a vegetable produced for the local or export market.
Annual models; IRR was not calculated.
5.     Reforestation Subprojects. The econormic feasibility of one hectare plantation of
pine trees (exotic species already introduced in the region two decades ago) and one of
cedar (cedro - a native species) was analyzed, as well as a 4,000 ha. plantation which
approximates total demand for establishing community forests (these are areas that already
have mature forests being harvested). First revenues would be obtained as of year 12
(pine) and 15 (cedar). This is not economically sustainable for the average project
beneficiary, if they are not supported with alternatives which generate short and medium
term revenues or associated activities (for example, agro-forestry). Reforestation is the
only activity considered in the model, and combinations with other short-term models has
not been carried out.
6.      Sales prices per square meter of wood are market prices3, as well as the cost of the
seedlings ($0.20). In a one ha. pine plantation, retums would be obtained at year 12
through thinning of thin and medium-sized trees which can be used in construction. The
zone's vegetation is herbaceous with degraded soils, and therefore there are lower clearing
costs than those associated with other types of soils and vegetation. A 20 year felling
period is estimated, obtaining a 17% internal rate of return (IRR) and a benefit/cost ratio
of 6.57. In a one ha. cedar plantation, although gross revenues are larger because the
3 US$10 per square foot of thin wood, US$60 per square foot of medium-sized wood and USS80 per
square foot of thick wood.



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 5
wood volume increases and is quoted at a higher price, the economic return is lower (14
percent IRR) because the period to harvest is longer (years 15 and 22) as well as the
felling age (30 years). Greater incentives to develop these projects will be provided by
combining reforestation with shorter-term production models (para 5).
7.    In the 4.000 ha. plantation model, regular interval planting of 1,000 ha./year is
considered. Initial investment includes only basic tools (hoe, machete, pruner) assuming
that all tasks will be manual; labor represents more than 90 percent of operational costs.
Re-planting costs will be US$2.7 million and maintenance costs (thinning, wood joint,
pruning and felling) represent US$2.2 million. At year 13, the first thinnings are obtained,
with increasing revenues as of that year. At year 23, revenues would amount to US$62.0
million, which represents a 19 percent IRR and a net present value of US$25,040 at a 12
percent discount rate.
Agroindustries
8.    Agro-industry models were costed at market values and reasonable estimates of
productive capacity in the region; operating costs correspond to real prices (raw materials
and inputs, transport, etc.) for the three plant models:
9.    Rural Cheese Production. Macaracas and Sona are dairy districts; most of
production is sold as fresh milk. The cheese plant was designed with a capacity to process
up to 156,000 Its. of milk/year, starting with a 50 percent capacity, and reaching 96
percent in five years. The equipment is simple, and may be adapted to manufacture other
products (yogurt, ricotta, etc.). When estimating wholesale prices at market prices
($0.85/12 ounce cheese) a 20 percent IRR is obtained, with a net present value of $7,091
at 12 percent. The activity is quite sensitive to price modifications: a five percent price
reduction brings about a 90 percent reduction in the IRR (0.92) and a negative NPV (-
8.000), with a benefit/cost ratio less than one. Its positive effect is significant in terms of
employment, since each plant could generate more than 1,200 workdays per year;
furthermore, it would reduce fresh milk losses reported in the region.
10.   Coffee Processing Plant. This enterprise is feasible in the highlands of Veraguas
and Los Santos, where coffee is produced but not processed. Considering a 55 percent
initial plant capacity which reaches 75 percent by year five, a fixed investment of $26,604,
in a 10-year production period, the plant yields a 30 percent IRR, selling husked coffee at
US$70/qq, which is lower than the market price (US$75/qq). In the sensitivity analysis,
estimating a 5 percent reduction on a US$70/qq price, the enterprise would continue to be
profitable (a 12.6 percent IRR with a net present value of $2,178 at 12 percent and a
benefit/cost ratio of 1.03).
11.   Fruit Processing Plant. The region produces local and export fruits (cantaloupes,
watermelons, pineapples). This activity generates a considerable quantity of rejected fruits
which could be used as raw material for ice-cream manufacture, restaurants, refreshment
stores, pastry shops, etc. A plant with a 1,420 metric ton capacity of fruit per year was



ANNEX G
Page 4 of 5
designed, with a US$110,900 investment, including a refrigerated truck to transport the
processed product (excluding the truck, the investment would amount to US$85,900).
3120 workdays per year would be created, which increases as the plant use does (starts at
25 percent and reaches 60 percent). This yields a 16.1% IRR and a present value of
$27,140 at a 12 percent discount rate. The sensitivity analysis showed high susceptibility
to price variations of the final product. A five percent reduction in the final product price,
not increasing the production capacity, would reduce the IRR to 11.0 percent.
12.   Wood Industry. There are 7,500 state-owned ha. of pine trees in the region,
which were planted in the 1970's and are only just beginning to be industrialized (by a
local cooperative); furthermore, the country annually imports around US$2.0 million of
pine wood, thus demand seems secure. The mobile sawmill would require a fixed capital
investment of US$53,456. Using market prices for the raw material (US$118 per square
meter of wood at the sawmill) and a real market price (US$200/sq. meter) a 18.9 percent
IRR is obtained, with a net present value of US$11,686. At present, INRENARE (the
only owner of pine plantations of felling age) is selling the wood to the cooperative at a
symbolic price of US$21 per sq. meter (which only represents 17 percent of the market
price).
Agricultural Subprojects
13.   Productive Projects: three models were developed: one with a low technological
level and two with medium technological levels in order to evaluate the technical and
economic feasibility of options which promote a self-sustainable productive system, with
minimum changes to existing agronomic cultural practices.
(a)   Low Technology Model. Production in crop succession
(rice/corn/beans/cassava) for marginal subsistence producers (PR1).
Contour lines and organic fertilizers are introduced; prices of inputs, labor
and final product are market levels. Improved auto-consumption is an
objective (especially in indigenous communities) as well as the generation
of small surpluses for sale. Between 50 and 75 percent of operating costs
are labor (family) costs. A five-year period is estimated to incorporate
productivity increases generated by the technology. The average annual
operating costs are US$746, obtaining a 49 percent IRR and the creation
of more than 100 workdays per year, with small, realistic increases in
productivity. At the end of the period, a US$1,290 net present value is
obtained.
(b)   Medium Technology Models. Options for PR2/PR3 and/or PRI with
better soils, commercial orientation, and some chemical inputs are
incorporated. In these cases, labor represents between 35 and 55 percent
of the total cost: a) Squash production (1 ha.): for the export market.
Approximate costs per ha/year is US$619 with yields of 200 qq which
generate a 61 percent IM; b) Otoe production (1 ha.): has good market



ANNEX G
Page 5 of 5
demand both in the local and export markets. Annual costs would amount
to US$581, obtaining a present value of US$374 at 12 percent and a 72
percent IRR.
annexg.doc
utnpty/gundaker/raine 12/02/97



Rsptk of POanam                                                                                                         ANNEXG
Rural Povwty and Matural Reaotoet Pro/ltN
Tabl z - FIanchnl Antalas br FoUr PRotwtoed Areas
"S or t3|}s
Option A- Rapmant of 30% o tlnvabrent Coata
LoNaI S.1.OvuTv                                               15,000       15.750     16.53        i 17.34     1.233     1914*       21.059      23.165      25,441      2t029        30         35.457     40,77      46642        53,25       6201 1
Locdt V,e.hw  Enk e Fe"                                                        2           2           2           2           2           a           2           2           2           2          2          2           2           2
Be4w. _ce~                                          31,5C0      33.075      24.729      J6,as5      31284       42,117      JC,329      50.t62      56,054      61 tt4     70.934     81,551      i3.7U!     107.4Sf      124.026a
Peeei,i  1    a   4'T                                         Wv.c         12,075     13.446       15.969      '6,365     21.1:4      25,343      30,412      34.494       43.793      52.551     63,042     75.674      90,Ju      106,971     130.7
F.wag44055 nfrw.Fee                                                            5           5           6           5           5           5           5           5           5           5           5          5          5            5
eaw  1bb1Pe"                                                   60,375      59,431      79,446      91,823     105,596    126,716      152,054    192,470      218.964     262.757    315,306    378.370     454,045     544,453     653,624
-7i    ..r F&                                                               I000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000      1.,O0        1000        1,000       1,000       1,000      1,000      1,Ooo       h1000             1,00
F*nmg bthsW                                                                 :.000       1000        `.000       1,000       1:,000     1.000        1.000       10,000      1,000       1000       1000       1'000       1Q0          .0,00I
Cnnpng Fe                                                                   1.000       1,150       1,323       1.521       1,749      2,011        2.313       2,660       3.059       3,516      4044       4.652       5,350       elS3         7,07
I Entrle Gross omae                                                        94,4875    105,656     117,497     131,509    147.634     172,644      202.701    236,042      240,042     329.939    342,268    444573      555,17'     640W,6       766.92
I. Operes.n  cot..                                                       *214,630    -214,630    -214.630    *214,630    214,630    -214,640    -214,6tO    -214,630    *214,630    -214.630   -214,630   -2146W30      214,630    -214,630    .214,
III Cpwiw r     w t119,755                                                            108,474     -96,733     -42,621     66,N94      41,746      -11,929     23,462       65,452     115,309    177,634    251.943     340,.44     444,227      572,290
,smws:
V. t,we.bnevs                                                            -150.500     60,000    -120,000       -5,700      -S,OC0          0           0       -5,700           0       5,000         0          0      -5.700           0       -5,00
Fkm;
VI ROi"  Prqect Ve" 5t5.
VI lNMcet low                                                           (270.255)   (164,474)   (216.733)    (44.52:)    (71,996)    (41,76)    (1I."29       17,762      65,452     114,409    177,636    251,W43     334,648     4465227      623,76
INAMUt UACATOU6 1o l. perF t.)
htrd RntF n Rem                                    5.41%
Nie Pr_r4 V . (i NA4                        ($1 6,454.75)
CeeI-   tt ltFln                                     1.67
Vill. Delere                                   llO,00000               (51151)   ($1151)   (616,151)   ($16,151)   (451)   ($16,151)   ($16,151)   (S16,151)   ($16,151)   ($16,151)  ($16,151)  (S16,151)   (S16,151)   (S16,151)   ($16,151)
Pqms a                                                                         (t ($295047)  ($3,304.75)  (SJ3,701.32)  (54,145.47) (64,642.3)  (5200W.06)  (55,424.04)  (56,522f,     (5(,305.74)  (44,162.43) (59,144.32) 6m4464   (SI1,4ff.73) (112.675.21) (514,420324)
lnhrrob                                                                (132200)    (12.446)    tl2,449)    (12.005)   (111,561    110,951)    (10,327       (4.2)        (8,46)      (7.946)    (649'    (5.4471      (4.656      (3,275)      (1,730)
iX WA cnsh go.                                                          t26.406)   (185,12.)   %2,464)   (104.672)    (44,147%    157,937)    tz0s0)           1,611      49,301      4,654    161,487    235.792      3:8,697     430,076      607.447
MISICIAL hluATOMN  *         n ltem penn   q
ht rnS Re_in RAte                                  640%
cotpo Bt AstFon                                      1,.30
e ~             ~ .iag .
Ht3T
0tX
NOC^



R.pdbll of Panamm                                                                                                      ANNEX 0
Rtal Pove$y and Matural ReoUcJ Proecd
Table3   Finanlal AnalI/l  for Four ProtcW                ArIs
IUS1 or "thtte"
Option  a- RMp.yment of 100   ot on veo nt Costs
.96p                               :- .~... :-:Vw1?w                                               -w    -.m    ?w    ?w                           h:o            i       Ya   ~Y*t 1.             t.  a-r -4t- .t,        a^;;.                .wt.w   tw  a-tU
M       .     "                                                                                                                           1! 5       1.13,000  152730  165338  1 7,364  18.Z33  It9..u IA 2505  236s  E5.48t  MA02  30.832  35,487  40.773  40.82  33.85  82.0
Local VlOOWS En ha Fc 2.2 2                                                              2           2           2          2           2                                                          2           2           2          2
ft*tr F..                                                  3R500       33.075      34.729      36,465     36.266      42.117     46,329      50.962      56.058      61,664      70.914      81.551     93.7BJ     107,51      t24.021
F4Aw1 Wjt6trW,Ovaty                                          10,500      12.075      1 3.896    15.969      Ia,365      21.119     25,343      30.412      36,494      43,793      52.551      63.062      75,674     90,0      1011.971    130,7t
lo,.gn VoclohEnh nc.Foo                                                      5           5    5                  5          5S 
hWoo.porenftWl                                                60,375      69,431      79,646      91.923    105.6S#    126,716    152,069      192,470     216.964     262.757     31S,306     378.370    454,04      S44.853     653.62
09mwhwcow
Anch 9g F.                                                                I,000       .000        0000       1.000                   1,000      10 00       1.000       1.000       1.OOo       .000        1,000      1.000        ,000       I.0
F6In,(i d Fb0h1000                                                                                              00       1,000       1.000      1,000        ,000       10          1.000       ,000                   l,O 1.000   1,040       I,
Cu".romg F.                                                               1.200       I,tSlt      t,323       t,02t      1,749t      Z,Ott      23t3        2,960       2,059       3,56        4.046      4<,652      5.350       6,tSJ        T.0
I   WEno nc G,a., I.,o.ooe                                               94.675     105,656    117,897     131,809    147,634      172.844    202,701     23,092      280,062     329,939     392,268     466,573    555,176   t060,657      786692
It C.,.%nl Col                                                         .214.630    *214.630    -214,630    -214,630   -214.630     214.63     .214,630    214,630    -214.630    .214,630    *214.630    -214,l30    -214,630    -214,tl30   214.6
IH tmOono. 6e.96t                                                      -119,755    *108974      -96733      -U.821      66.996      41,786     -1t,929     23,462      65,452     115,309     177.63     251,943     340.548    446t227      572
IV hcapm.m,w                                                            150,500     -60,000    -120,000      A C700      5.000          0           0       -.700           0       -5,000          0          0       -,700           0       5,eo
,ob.
VI Rmjl Pmq.ct Vok.
NcO   h kw                                                              270.255    .16.5974    2216,733     -8.521      71.96      41.786        11.26    17,762      65.452     110.309     177,636     251.943     334,9      446.227     623.N
RM4IKAL It4CATOM
Insund R6..n A.%                                  6.39%
No PF.__  VA.4112&                             59,S-".907 63)
Cotl-sw4  Rb5on                                     I 75
VII DWle.svwo                                                        (tVAl.O0)  (VI.24,776)  (67.30.407)  (61.37,7"6)  (51.30.761)  (67.34.9611)  (01.32.66111)  (1.34394  (1V.2,1683)  (6/26.620)  (6V23,34)  (E16)  (51.11,G23)  (/V.11.424)   (51.6,035
h1n9t .                                                           (11.060 00  (24.71600)  (36,40(o0)  (37,79600) (30.76100)  134,11,.00)  (32.968001  (31.439.00)  (26.6611300) 12660.00)  523.340.00)  (19,666.001  16.23500)  (lI,424.001   (6.03600
P.ywnl *. o.-.                                                     la1/037!   (6 6.2/4     8 (/1,.420)  (&13.0261  (I114.5900  (116.340)  (5.16.301   (5.20.204)  (-23.412)  (1.326,924)   51.30,1655  (51.233.774)  (51.39.3046  (6l.44,025)  (5146.306)
Not c_hn   w                                                         (5/28,31 5) (51193,750) (V.265,140) (67.126,307) (8V1106757)  (B1.76.767)  (1.44.917)  (1.13.677)    1.36.560    t63,689   V1.154,6    11.232,277  61.316.613   V1.434,t03   9.617,783M
NN*L tlNCATOS
inlU   Rnd6    P%R1                               5.23%
Cot6        R4dcn                                 51.305
wo      p     n, q*nW 
2 gak
F-A;



ANNEXG
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Table 4'. Protected Area.
Description of Coots tor P.M. Bh atimentos, Lak Amlstad, Volcn Baru, and Isli Tabopa
(US$)
Concept                                                                YearO    Yearl    Year2 Ya r3          Yet4    YeuS   YovrS    Yarl    YeatS    YearSY   Ys 'e    Ys tr11   YeV 12   Yearl1   Y.ar14    Yeasri
Investniont Costs
a. Visistor Sites (400 m2 construction; I per park)                     60000    600Do      120O0O
b. Field Equipment                                                       5500                          1200                                 1200                                          1200
c. Anchorage (3 in Dark ibr 6000
d. Diving equipment (2 In thel park ib)                                                                         S000                                          5000                                            5000
e. Boat and Out of Board (1-ib) (1-it)                                   9000                          45rt                                 4500                                          4500
I oading Capacity Study                                                40000
q Nature Paxths (1 per park)                                            30000
TOTALS                                                             0   150b00    BO0C0      120000     5700   50O          0         0     5700        0     50D0        0         0     5700        0       5000
Operational Costs
h Fuel and Luoricating aor lB and IT (1)                                19200    19200       19200    19200   19200   19200    19200    19200   19200    19200    19200    19200    19200   1920i0           1920
i Fuel and Lucricatirig for rnotorcycles in VB and AM (2)                4380     4380        4380     4380    4380    4380       4380      4380    4380      4380     4380      4380     4380    4380        4380
jStaff
Park Chief (1 pay park; B/1,.000 monthly/each)                        52000    52000       52000    52000   52000    52000    52000    52000   52000    52000    52000    52000    5200o   52000           52000
Secretary (1 per park; BI.300 rTionthlyIoach)                         15600    1500o       15600    15000   150o0   15600    1500 0    ts5oo    t50         15000D   15000   15600    15600   156O0        15600
Environmental Educator (1 per park, B/Y600 monthly/each)              31200    31200       31200    3t200   31200   31200    31200    31200   3t200    312D0    31200    31200    31200   31200            31200
Forest Ranger (B/.250 monthly average/each ) (3)                      87750    87750       87750             87750    87750    877s      8 7750    877t0 87750   S85          87750    87750   87750       87750
h Forest Rangers Clothing (I for each forest rangor4year)                4500     4500        4500     4500    4500    4500       4500      4500    4500      4500     4500      4500    45D0    4500         4500
GRAND TOTAL                                                            214630   214630      214630   214300  214       216430   214630   214630  214830   214630   214630   214630   214630  214630         214830
Investmnrt Coaf. Total                                                                     36Ua
Opwationsl Costs Total                                                                   Z351
incraud  I tent 3 kn"e*w, 3 znrbforne, 3 lantems, compsa, 3 wler bAils, 1 aIt-aid kit (v s5o och pui adge)
La Ami ted. a6) N P. Voican Bne. (2) len Tabga, ll) lot 8eabmnto (21
lrciudm33Shrht.3T-Shrtb.3 Psntte,2psirCdbooti. lshatdcapd5(0 Ste rpackag.)
(I)El1erlOWp rmnoh(1200inleand4tOOM;3niBwouidbi2oga onvdaytof2OdaysperrnonherB/3.00/gRaon.tsriT rsudt*l0gYdayfrw20dsprrmonthat8E.200p rg bon                                                              z
(2)8iY 355 p.r month (22an AM and 1 45 V); ia AM U t duly vSnnunion 01 3 iunvtorycs iS o2 gJi *.  , 120 gil p.r manik at 51.1 6001B in ve9 r tea nqryd.. wuth lbssat AMS cci.d                               t rti
(3) ish Bastimnn (2). La Arrisld (17), VoxcAn Bu (B). Taboga (2)
la:. Pac0  rino bw~ B-emnts                                                                                                                                                                               t
IT: BlugiodeVda Sh*s9tr   n We Tht
VBr Parqu Nacionsl Val-in nBau
Am PtWea lhr  _cirna_l Le Arrist_d
**a ttV.x



ANNEX G
Panama
Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Project
Table 5 - Financial Analysis, Isla Bastimentos Marine Park
(in USS)
NumberafNafoni Vistors *                                       1,0100        1,050         1,103         1,158          1,216        1,276
National visitors entrance fee                                                2.00          2.00          2.00          2.00          2.00
Income per entrance fe.                                           2,100.00      2,205.00      2,315.25         2,431         2,553
Number at Forelgn Visitors *                                   3,0C10        3,450         3,968         4,563         5,247         6,034
Foreign visitors entrance fee                                                 5.00          5.00          5.00          5.00          5.00
Income per entrnce fee                                           17,250.00     19,837.50     22,813.13        26,235        30,170
OtherlIncomes
Anchoring Right (1)                                                        1,000.00      1,000.00      1,000.00      1,000.00      1,000.00
Filiming Right (2)                                                          500.00        500.W0        500.00        500.00        500.00
Camping Right(3)                                                            750.00        862.50        991.88       1,140.66     1,311.75
I. Net income per entrance fee                                           21,600.00     24,405.00     27,620.25      31,306.76    35,534.68
minus,
I I. Operational expenses                                                -12,300.00    -12,300.00    -12,300.00    -12,300.00    -12,300.00
equal;
IllI Operational benefits                                                  9,300.00     12,105.00     15,320.25     19,006.76    23,234.68
minus;
IV. Investments                                           (92,400.00)
plus;
V. Rescue value of fixed and intangib.e assets.                                                                                  72,531.68
Vl. Current balance                                       (92,400.00)     9,300.00     12,105.00     15,320.25     19,006.76     95,766.36
FINANCIAL INDICATORS OF THE PROJECT
Internal Retum Rate                           12.87%
Net Present Value PROFIT (12%)                  2,569
Benefit-Cost Rebation                            1.03
^  The amount for year 0 is the current amount per annum. Incomes are not taken into account during this year, since no entrance fee is currently being charged at the Park.   a 
A 5% annual increase is taken into account for national tourists, and 15% for foreign tourists.                                                       c rz
*'Investment is not taken into consideration to calcubate net incomes.                                                                                 wcX
''The Intemnal Return Rate is negative since the investment carried out is greater than revenues received during the 5 years                            nC
(1 ) AnBchoring relates to 24 feet long boats, 100 boats per year at B/. 1 0.00 Per boat.
(2) Conudsts in 30minutes of edited video per year (B/.5C10)  l                            
(3) Capn has a cost of Bfi.00 er tent. Aproximatelv 150 tents durin the first vear; a 15% annual increase is taken into consideration. l






ANNEX H
Page I of 2
PANAMA
RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCE PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1. Alvarado, Ram6n. Forialecimiento del sistema nacional de areas protegidas
silvestres. Diagn6stico de dreas y su priorizaci6n. Enero/mayo 1996.
2. Ampuero, Luis; Morcillo, Jose; Castillo Pedro, Armas, Antonio. Comercializaci6n de
Productos Agropecuarios. Febrero/abril 1996.
3. Arce, Jose; Pezo Danilo; Moreno Raul; Gonzalez Tomas; German, Irving; Chavez
Victor. Sistemas de Producci6n Agropecuario y Agroiindustrial Dic 1995/Junio
1996.
4. Boucher, Francisco; Rivero, Hernando; Calder6n, Alexis. Agroindustria Rural.
Marzo/mayo 1996.
5. Caliva, Juan; Ramirez Jos6; Espino, Pablo. Programa de Capacitaci6n. Marzo/mayo
1996.
6. Colindres, Ibis y Ortiz, Ligia (Colaboraci6n MIDA, MIPPE, INRENARE, RUTA III).
Diagn6stico Rural Participativo. Octubre 1995/ener) 1996.
7. Detailed Cost Tables.
8. Escobar, German y Urefia, Roger. Propuesta de Gest.on Institucional. Mayo/junio
1996.
9. Forno, Eduardo, Alvarado Ram6n; de Sosa, Alma. Fcrtalecimiento de Areas
Protegidas. Dic. 1995/mayo 1996.
10. Grimshaw, Richard. UPP/UTN/MIDA. Conservacion de suelos y aguas. Octubre
1995.
11. Jones, Norman. Geneica Forestal. Diciembre 1995.
12. Meassick, Mark y Gonzalez, Crist6bal. Organizaci6n Rural. Marzo/junio 1996.
13. Romero, Arturo y Rodes, Manuel. Sistemas de produ .ci6n y aprovechamiento
forestal. Dic.1995/mayo 1996.
14. Sallier, Jean Claude y Gonzalez, Giolis. Guiapara la elaboraciosn de los expedientes
t&nicos del componente de rehabilitaci6n de camino * rurales. Marzo/abril 1996
15. Sousa, Donaldo. Andlisis del marco de politicas que aifectan el manejo y la
conservacion de los recursos naturales / Marco legal. Febrero/marzo 1996.
16. Stewart, Rigoberto y Morcillo, Jose. Politicas, Pobre. ay el uso de los recursos
naturales en Panamd. Febrero/abril 1996.



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 2
17. Tovar, Dario, Sistema Regional Mesoamericano de Areas Protegidas, Zona de
Amotiguamiento y Corredores Biologico; INRENARE/PNUD.
18. Tresierra, Julio. Propuestaprogramaticapara pueblos indigenas ubicados dentro del
area delproyecto. Junio 12, 1996.
19. UPP-RUTA III / MIDA-INRENARE-MIPPE. Proyecto de Pobreza Ruraly Recursos
Naturales Versi6n Final: a) Informefinal, y b) Anexos. 20 de julio 1996.
20. UPP/MIDA/INRENARE/MIPPE. Propuesta de Orientacion del Proyecto de Pobreza
Ruraly Recursos Naturales. Mayo/agosto 1995.
21. Watson, Le6n y Gutierrez, Rafael (colaboraci6n INRENARE/IPAT). Diagn6stico de
las areas protegidas para ecoturismo. Interpretaci6n ambiental de las areas
protegidas. Estrategia para la implementaci6n de acciones de educaci6n e
interpretaci6n ambiental en las areas protegidas de Panama. Lista de posibles fuentes
de trabajo en la industria turistica. Anexos. Dic. 1995/mayo 1996.
OA\LA     A   A      W     UFFANNEXH.DOC
March20, 1997 11:24AM



MAP SECTION






1                            13RD~~~~~~~~lE 28335
a3-  82                                 31                                      Et                                      ~~     ~     ~~~~~                              ~      ~     ~~                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7r  n .3  -w
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sw ti r,:i
33                                      32                                       al'                                    30                                       7r                                      73,77 '
RICA
Mosquito,q  \                                                                                                                                                         -
P-I. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ 
PACFI   OCA                  N A7rA                                                               o- 
Golf.  d.   CA-9.i  EIM                                                            -       NITED STATS O A,EIC
PANA MAC                                                                 t, ORN                                                                                                            -     TEIEBAAMAS       OCEAN
occoPhtnce ol such wnd7r1es.                                                                                                     O C E A N                            t       /  3RAZIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TH  BHAAS 0     EA 
TOWNS AND VILLAGES                        RAILROADS                                        Ma                         -
TRANSPO RTATIO N       AND         RELIEF                              0~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS                         PAVED ROADS                                                  <~j~-          DOMINICAN
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                   -     ~GRAVEL AND DIRT ROADS
MEVICCO   \ -ELE        JAMAICA
3      2U    aD       D     so      30 KILOMETERS                                    1   PORTS OR LANDING PLACES                       ELEVATIONS IN FEET                                                    Cib
+ t    AiRPORTS/LANDING STRIPS                         100GLUATEA7,.-
RIVERS                            I~~~~~~~~~~ 000-3,050                     EL SALVAD0OXN}CAIRAGUA            -A--        .
TO.. "OP~~aDrOAAM8YV*MOpDO..Qi LLA,OITO.WoVDEoCL                                                                   3 DUD-ITUDSCOSTA                                              0a
Thebocc,,. co' daoo,ono, cd nyccar,cF,oo,o._ao                          -        INJTERNATONAL EOUNDARIES                                                                              RRA5,000K    EEZEA                     
-h0,oo  .aqIrN ofrib-d-- cnadn.a,,                                                                                                                                                A,I                        COLOMBIA 
B RAZIL
APRIL ROT~






IBRD 28336
RICACIFIC  OCEAN                                -                              .>                  .AA
COSTA                                                                                                                                 4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  NTDSTTSO  9RC
P/A N A M A                                                            ' '                l                      ArLANric
RICA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~           ~          ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~A
.4                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA17
PACIFI C OCEAN
S3-                       ~~~~~~~~82-91                                                                                                 79                                  79-" -
C                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNITED STATES OP AMERICA
P AN A MA                                                                                              -         A L AN T'
FOREST COVER AND APPROXIMATION OF THE                                                                     '                         THE BAHAMAS  OCEAN
20  40   0   80  IO 81109-eTeRS                                             ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR                                                                            i         CUBA-    DOICNICAN
FORESTED AREAS                  i   PROVINCE CAPITALS       --      APPROXIMATE DELIMITATION OF               MEX CO  N7'BELIZE     JAMAICA
ATLANTIC BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR                         >HONURAS        CoAbb.eo. S..
Tb', mop  p7a1 pxd. by he Map D...g,,  , Ua t ofThe 9-aM Sa        HEAVILY FORESTED AREAS Y             N     ATION AL CAPITAL                                                         E-PROVINCE 80UNDARIES  E  C     i-        8 
Th. baaada,.., cobaM d.a.anaa, aMn any 6. afar nanbmor 4ha.s
on thf l-m,p           d oh poTrd MA G                             AREAS WTI TnHOUT FOREST -R- INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                      COSTA REKA
udgm.a. onre .I,gaaat aa 'nra,y                                                                                     =r ay                                                                                             VENEZUELA m  o
-hp         PceohbadaP.                                                                                                                                                                  i F I C   PANAMAh
Nol TCOO AlIaIAc 8aIagcaI Carr'dar bon,lhM  Ills Panomaaiaacaaw,bohoa IONS Ms a,wca8lagrcal Car,dor nder A,I p9--cl                   COLOMBIA       - - -'
S.-rce INRENARE GOearphi,c or-laon Tysy,                                                                      C E A N                            / r   /RAZIL
APR5 1 997






IBRD 28337
S3-  SP                                     &1.                                         IXP                                        ~           ~           ~          ~ ~~~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~79  7t  7 
CARIBBEAN
'''d s:                                   : :   '                                      'SEA
A       ~-- SW So. P-                                                                                  *.&. k1s d
X ~~~~~~~ ,D ,0                           .0    so      l  CLORs                       ,                                                        
COSTA                      ~so~d~%%&&,8,500                                                '                        S                                                                                                                     ''                   jLSI
RICA
z a        i P R O J E C T  A R A                                                                                                            P A N  A M  A                                                  -
Ahos ~    ~       1~Fs*,                                                                                                                         BoCm on  oon  ingoLoMogoo.-  
ft-I                  Fito   d9 .               MC                                        CL  E                 RJ
fore                       R    a     P R T  C E   F o R es T                     I N E  N T O  A   P A R Ko n         s,                                                                                      - ,Is; H     N D R A        C    i OS e
j      0Doo,d           Q                                                    _~~~~~' 
Porto-A,                            _         ~  ,                                                                                                                     
A  -  Pasta PAt,nd
~f   G o.&  d     o.o                            -j'
/  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eLo, Toblos
Golk                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO LOMBI
-   -C  QC5-N
IJN'TED STATES OF AMERICA
-        PROJECT AREAS                                                                                                                                        PANAMA                                                              -A T A N TI C
NATIONAL PARKS                           HYDROLOGICAL RESERVES                       WILDLIFE REFUGES                                       P     O    E T D A             E    S'                                                            H   AAA
Altos do Cos,pon                        BoYano                                       C o-o,o Lo, M-osao                                                                                                                 
Conona do Crooo                          Go.f d. M-flils                              0 5  oo                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS          --- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                   -           CUBA_          DOMINICAN
C."o H0-                                 Son S., P-n, Sak                                                                                                                                                                                              R oo  AT EP.-
Cho5r-                                  NATURE RESERVES                              P.m.. do lo H-nac                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                HII 
Frlo d.I Tol11Taog                                                                        RIVERS                                                                   MXC        f<ES                               ,
D.-.r                                   PROTECTED FORESTS                      -    INTERNATIONAL PARK                                                                                                                j >ODAS               C-b.Obo
Gods. do Chon,qo, Asono                  l a Danon                                  L A~ 00od                                                                                                                GUATEMA.LA-'- -
lobs do Los Podoo lpnoposodl                                                                           oh                                                  EL SALVADOR 1NICARADUA                 -. - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L SLVAOR -,NCAPrU
Ida                                                                                                                                        5--naE   Sc  Sa~   IRENARE Gagnopa  lnnarO  Sysro-
Manna as Bo-I -1ot                      FOREST RESERVES                             METROPOLITAN PARK                                                                                                                   COSTA RIC
?ontn0s,o                                Conglon                                                                                       Th,, ao, .5 nA-d-d b, h. Mo, 0-.  U., MntoT. W-ld .IdakRCA                                         y               EZE
5080                                     CopgnoCOORD                                                                                   rA                                    mf'-'                                               PANO      -
S. nflaEl M-ntas                                                                    N. M. BARRO COLORADO                                            a05.Ot,OOn  n aya. nor,0a  nn.                                   
On"Blna  noL  ons                                                                                                                        nsadannpyaApnaT..dBnGa   n                                                                             COLOMBIA            -  
L. T--                                                                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oon.,a  o -ooasoa an-,.n,syaaynssn.,nz/
La Ysg.odo ..,n.lobn4n.                                                                                                                                                                                                    BRAZIL
APRI. 1997






IBRD 28338
PA N A M A                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~LEVEl-S (INDEX):  03   PROVINCE CAPITALS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT ARE-AS                                                                                     o60~ -VR O 0 99)RVR
MUNICIPAL
AND RURAL POVERTY (BASIC NEEDS sATisFACTION)F                                                                         LOW (20 -39.99)                       ONDRE
73                    Zj MID-LOW (40 - 59.99)                __PROVINCE
0                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
'1 I          1Z  MID-HIGH (60 - 79.99)INE ATNL
0  20  40  60 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                     BOU~~~~~~~33  ITENDARISTIONAL T
78  *72             )   \24             HIGH (80 - 1 00)                     BUDRE  IST
Golfo ~      ~      ~                          S                                        336 o                                       PROJECT AREAS
I  92jj~~n,   228  Chepo                   459  San Bartolo
230  El T6or                  461  Cerro de Casa
57231  LeOhes                        464  El Piro
'N 355                     232  Quebrocda Del Rosario   465  El Prado
490                                                                ~~~ ~~               ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~234  Caui  470  Zapotillo
D   E                                      <                                              236  C~~~~~~~      ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ElCedro  472  Arenas
A   L                               ~~~~ ~~~~~~30                                 371~-~0               238  La Pitalozai             474  La Garceana
24> 23  63~ 362         240  Los Cerros de Pa1a       475  Leones
242  Cerro Largo              476  IJano de Catival
4                               ~~~~~~~~~21               243  Los Jaons                478  Guebro
464                31 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7309  Bahia Honda                                                       479  Teboria
37               27   21       419\ ~8~310  BCajo de GiJera                          480  Cabecera (Rio de Jes6is)
157  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~8e2    \~   48311 Coozol                                                                                                                   481 Las Huacos
313  El Cedro                 483  Utira
26  \~\314  Espino Amarillo                              485  Corral Falso a Panamoes
171                                                                          22                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~316  Las Palmas  487  Remance
318  Mogoll6n                 488  San Juan
435a La Montar9uelo           491  El Alto
17                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~436  El Barrito    492  El Cuoy
439  Bornizal                 500  Ponuga
165   15A                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~441  El Cocla  503  Bahia Honda
496  499  Santa                       ~~~~~~               ~~~~G  u IF442  El Pot-ero                 504  Calidonia
19  460  A55        496       499 --                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~443  La Loguno  505  Cativ6
Santta~~~~~~~~9K    ~~~~~                  o  F448  Monjri                                             506  El Marah6n
154   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 42449  San Jose1                                                                                                                                               507  Guarumal
235    2  <    -    20P  a  n  a  m  a                                           451  Agia de Salud            508  La Soledadi
-8o  "I             46                                              245--,'  2 7 251  2AO  2~                                                   452  Cerro Plato               509  Quebrada de Oro
471                                                           8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~  456  Bisvailes       510  Rio Grande
24  ~~~~225'    306 ~~~~~457  Bor-6                                               511  Rodeo Viejo
241   -                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~458  LOano Grande
468                                                                                 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 9    <6~8    ~ 70-- 268l  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
- 'K                    7~~~~~~~3013  ->264- 2-77                                                                            A T L A AL N T IC
o     2809                                      -        G9    of               THE BAHAMAS OC A
4    3 ~ ~~~~~~~~~2-295  ~432                                                                    CUBA  -- DOMINICAN
329  I~~~~~~~2~~aJ   '' ~~~MEXICO~  r(ELIZE                             JAMAICA
A73                                                                                                                            H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  7 ONDURAS  Car~bbecan  Sea
473                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~330        GUATEM4ALA
Ths nap an, pnndaa.d by 6.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL SALVAIDO~    NICARAGUA
M   Unt- ajt dTh. Wand Sa4_28COT                                                                                                            Area ofMap '-
Th. b-n ant- -olo, d.naonnaCOSTA RICAI~                                                                                                                             VEEZEL
.di,npd .y,an. nnl.         -                                   3                     SU5E mnn-Msl .6 tt6nSca-66                                                     VEEUEA
And - nydan~ ;nta,n,oa b-n as,                                                         Polaka Enanna  1993. Rosi Noont
473                     Th. Wantd Sank Gnnp, any adgn-a                                                          enodascse,osna                         iP N M
an -d.- b     -asen atan Maay on                                                                hh, I   ,,d h..aag - pan      CIF                         COLOMBIA
sad,haandan,es                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~80,  C E A                                         IJ
r -> `BRAZIL
APRIL 1997






Al igand  "K                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 28339
'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~UNITED STATES OF AMERIC                                                     AEANI
C,  ~        ~         ~        ~              ~     Oufo               THE IBAHAMAS OCEAN'
~~tL    MEXICO4   EUZE       DOMINICA
.j'n0                     0t _-)-\                             \m,"/X                    LS   '=                                 0It9_             ..  
If                                       IO~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~~UATE  0 RA e'arblbean Soo
RIO             r                                                    '-1            I SA-V --    NI 'A ..A
,,_=  ,, ,, ,, ,,, ,, , ,, . - -,, _          ulatup 
, ~~~  ~~                COSTA        Ca ~~~~~VENEZUELA 
PANAM                -   .'       ;                                                         Av PC               A       LIO B
f -A . AM      A                   x                                                                         COL MBIA
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
--f  ,)   o.-,-   aIt                 \                              DARIEN    P              Coribbean  S:a
, ~  ~     ~     t           /           aI  I                             /                                                                   .-
f    *.   %,  /  COM~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      ANC EMEA  1
a n a m o   .- .\>.t         /                                              COMARCA EMBERA 2Gulf of
'4                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Panama
0   20     4p K ItS                                         -   -   RIV E R SA          re a o f M     0
i *\) mop wos produc d oy Ihc Mop Dsign Umil of Thn Warid Bon#;                           - - - - - -   MUNPACIPIC  OCEAN  E' S
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7
Guti ? apd notimpy on th  oto  h   ol    iGopoyi'
S an  M  ig      l    '                                                                                                                /1
,{pus  ofuc  ouraori6-                                             1/;;  -78 4  ,X
_                                                       e
C,0  L              A    I 997
1    DARIEN PROVINCE
(I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BIOLOGICAL CORRIDOR
G  ulIf                 jaq J6                                                                            PUNTA PATINOC NATURE RESERVE
of    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~  ~~~COMARCA EMBERA 1
COMARCA EMBERA 2
a noa m a
* DARItN NATIONAL PARK
a      SELECTED TOWNS
0,            20              40 KILOMETERS4,                                                              RIVERS
----MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
u;szmp was produced by tho Map Design Unit of The World Bank.'11v,
boundories, colors, dnornlmnotions and anyother information show                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ithis map do not imnply, on tho part of The World Bank Group  nP,- -                                        ITRNTALBUD IE
,dgment on the legal s#okls of any territory, or any endorsement orENTOA OUDRE
cceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                    7
APRIL 1997






e   --                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P AN A MA                                                          CA RI B BEA N \2(                   $3 
COz A | =/i - i * U < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVERTY: BASIC N E EDS SATISFACTION                                                                                     S EA ,_ 
i'~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              so)OMMM
PA CI F  C  C E N 7 ,,_,,,, _i ,.-<;
COSTAHI09t                                                                                                                                         EABlE                                           oL   
RIC G_      5                                                                                                                 E`OAC 2 A U
9~~~~~~~~~~~\       _                                     G     C ,  I IF __CN_,  d  I  . 
*4'IVe       i1   ~   A-_I    ac[u  6 0   ANFLS           d   An2    P  dt                                              3  ws A n    .3  s  u0   Lr
27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                                                                        CARSB0U9N 0EbN.AL A  DiEF'212. z_ bBEC C
32   _   5   U  .osMos  7s  bA  OF  2 2 d 2 SAs 2 2 S > 3 +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  If        fP     na  
NATIONAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l CA rrA









IMAGING
Report No.:         16090    PAN
Type:.    SAR



