Report No. PIC2389
Project Name                   Panama-Rural Poverty and Natural Resources (@).
Project
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Agriculture/Environment
Project ID                     PAPA7847
Borrower                       Republic of Panama
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Department
(Ministro de Desarrollo Agropecuario,
MIDA)
Curundu Area Revertida
Edificio No.576
Ciudad de Panama, Panama
Telephone (506) 232-5044/043
Fax (506) 232-5044
Institute of Renewable Natural Resources
(Instituto de Recursos Naturales
Renovables,INRENARE)
Apartado 2016
Altos de Curundu
Ciudad de Panama, Panama
Telephone (506) 232-6601/232-6643
Fax: (506) 231-6612
Date Initial PID               June 15, 1995
Date this PID prepared         June 14, 1996
Appraisal Date                 September 23, 1996
Project Board Date             February, 1997
Country and Project Background
1.   Panama has a rich natural resource base and a high incidence of
rural poverty. This renewable natural resource base--forests, fauna,
water sources and soils--is being continuously and increasingly
degraded, in part as a consequence of the impact of the rural poor.
2.   In contrast with other, more urbanized countries in the Latin
American Region, 46t of Panama's population is rural and, despite being
a country with a relatively high per capita income (US$2770 in 1995),
aost half of the panamanian population is poor, and 24t live in extreme
poverty. The large majority of these live in rural areas: fully two-
thirds of the rural population is poor. They are concentrated in areas
that include the ecologically most degraded and fragile. This relation
is not coincidental; for various reasons (para 4), the poor have 'mined'
the forests, soils and watersheds, returning little in the form of
sustainable resource management, thereby progressively reducing their
productive potential. The limited incomes and low productivity of the



rural population is indicated by the fact that the agricultural sector
accounts for only 10t of the GDP, although 46t of the population is
rural.
3.   Over half of the forests of   Panama have disappeared, and some 40t
(3 million hectares) of the country remains under forests. The main
contributors to the deforestation rate (70,000 hectares per annum) are
migration of the poor to the degraded areas; livestock and agriculture
which usually follow (most commonly large-scale extensive livestock),
and the timber industry. Forests, biodiversity, valuable habitats, soil
and water sources are under continuous pressure. To improve natural
resource management in the country, attention must be focused on the
farm, and on strengthening the national protected area system to ensure
the protection of critical natural resources of national and
international importance.   Some 'protected' areas have only 20t of their
original forest cover intact, the rest having been logged or farmed for
many years.
4.   The current Government has given a high priority to combating
poverty and strengthening environmental management systems, both areas
which have been neglected in the past. Earlier efforts to reduce rural
poverty have principally been through more traditional supply-driven
rural development projects that have had little impact on poverty
reduction. Natural resource management and conservation has principally
been limited to reforestation schemes and the establishment of a large
protected area system (29w of the territory), but which is underfinanced
and neglected (para 3), and not fully representative of the country's
most important ecosystems.
5.   There is also a growing awareness in government that poverty and
natural resource degradation has been made worse by an inadequate policy
environment. At present, the most important policies negatively
affecting these two areas include trade (protectionism which promoted
non-competitive productive activities), public expenditure (strong urban
bias), and forestry and other related policies that have encouraged
deforestation and misallocation of public funds. The present
administration is adjusting many of these policies, some with Bank
support, through the Structural Adjustment Program, and Health and
Education (Loan II's) Projects. Within this improving framework, this
proposed project is a response to a request from the Government to
support its policies and efforts to combat rural poverty and reinforce
natural resources management and conservation.
Project Objectives
6.   The principal objective of the project is to develop, on a pilot
scale, new means of directing resources for investment and technical
assistance towards selected areas with rural poverty and natural
resource degradation, as well as to the national protected area system.
The project's actions would concentrate on those that would promote
sustainable rural development, from a social, economic and environmental
standpoint. By this, the project would aim at stabilizing production
systems through productivity and income increases, thereby avoiding out-
migration to the forested/protected areas.
- 2-



Description
7.   The project would finance incremental operating and staff costs,
vehicles and equipment, civil works, training, and consultant services
within the following three components:
(a) Sustainable Rural Development. Implemented by the Minsitry of
Agricultural Development (MIDA) and local and community organizations,
this component would set up a community development fund, which through
matching grants, would: (i) provide training and organizational
assistance to communities to carry out participatory diagnostics
followed by a sustainable community action plan; (ii) invest in these
plans in such actions that are not covered by other government or
private programs. These include: productive infrastructure (mini-
irrigation schemes, processing facilities, resource management including
reforestation, access roads rehabilitation, water supply, community
facilities), agricultural systems research, technical assistance, and
training. Where appropriate, plans and specific actions could be
combined among various communities for larger investments as natural
resource management (e.g. local watersheds) or access roads
rehabilitation.
(b) Protected Areas Management. Implemented by the Renewable Natural
Resource Institute (INRENARE) and NGOs, this component would: (i)
redefine the national protected areas (PA) system, including the
possible identification of new priority areas of national and
international importance for biodiversity conservation; (ii) develop and
implement management plans for priority PAs; (iii) establish basic
infrastructure in the priority PAs (e.g. scientific, adminsitrative,
touristic, access); (iv) clarify the land tenure situation of the
protected areas through the titling of contiguous properties and
containing the expansion of settlers inside the PAs (Government's policy
is to not relocate them once the settlers are in place); and (v) promote
and assist ecotouristic activities which would generate income for the
neighbouring communities, as well as the PA system, thereby reducing
INRENARE's dependence on the national budget.
(c) Institutional Strengthening. Implemented by MIDA, INRENARE, and
local organizations, this component would: (i) strengthen the
adminstration of project-related activities in these organizations; (ii)
strengthen the overall administration of the protected area system;
(iii) establish an independent monitoring and evaluation system
(including the beneficiary communities) for project activities; and (iv)
establish the institutional capacity to monitor government policies that
may have perverse effects on poverty reduction and natural resource
management and conservation. This component would also finance the
project management unit and its activities.
Costs and Financing
8.   The present estimated cost of the five-year project would be US$32
million. This would include a Global Environmental Facility grant of
US$6.0 mn, US$16 million Bank loan, US$7 mn. Government contribution and
US$3 million beneficiary contributions.
- 3-



Implementing
9.   The government agencies responsible for overall project
implementation would be MIDA and INRENARE as described above, but
implementation in the field would be mostly carried out by local
organizatios in accordance with community and PA action/management
plans. A project implementing unit would be set up and operate under
the directives of a project policy and coordinating committee with
representatives from each ministry, MIPPE (Planning) and representatives
of the beneficiaries and NGOs. The Sustainable Rural Development Fund
would be established, and operate from a commercial bank. It would
finance the rural development as well as ecoturism activities. A
technical committee would evaluate subprojects presented by the
communities from their action plans, and recommend financing if
sustainability criteria agreed with the Bank are followed (economics,
social, gender, and environmental; see below).
Sustainability
10. This would be a pilot project. Its premise is to develop a
sustainable methodology for rural poverty alleviation and natural
resource management in the post-project period. In particular, the
sustainability of the rural development component would be promoted by
the selection criteria used to evaluate the individual subprojects: they
must be economically and financially viable in the longer term,
particularly after the matching grant funds area no longer available
(e.g. be able to cover operating and other costs); socially sustainable
in terms of its poverty reduction/income generating potential and
continued community support; and environmentally sustainable by avoiding
negative impact on the environment, and rather, improving it. By
stabilizing farmers' production systems, they would have less need to
invade and degrade forested/PAs, thereby promoting the sustainability of
such areas. In addition, by concentrating scarce management and
financial resources in the PAs of high biodiversity and income
generating potential, examples of successful sustainable management can
be provided for the rest of the PA system. Selected cost recovery in
each component will contribute to the financial sustainability of
project activities. Strengthening of the implementation agencies and
NGOs involved in project execution, and the participative approach to
project planning, implementation and evaluation, should contribute to
the institutional sustainability of the rural development and PA system.
Benefits, and Social and Environmental Aspects
11. Project benefits would include greater on- and off-farm
productivity and income of small producers in rural migration source
areas, and a strengthened viability of the protected areas (both through
actions in priority PAs, and rural migration source areas).
Sustainability analysis (para 9) will be undertaken of project
interventions to help ensure appropriate resource allocation.
12. The most important social aspect of the project is the targeting of
project interventions to the rural poor. Considerable study has also
been carried out of gender issues during project preparation and
consideration of such issues would be an important requirement for
- 4 -



approval of community investments. Before appraisal, an indigenous
people development plan (IPDP) would be drawn up in those areas
containing indigenous populations, to ensure their interests are taken
into account, and that the project is not expected to cause any negative
impact on indigenous rights and culture. To the contrary, indigenous
people would benefit. In the PA component, involuntary resettlement is
against Government policy and would not be considered an option. In any
event, a process of participatory planning would be carried out in all
the field-based components to ensure the participation of community
members in project planning, implementation and evaluation. As the
project is considered a pilot, succesful development methodologies would
be expanded and replicated in other areas of the country in the post
project period.
13. The project has been assigned to Environmental Assessment Category
'B'. It would have a positive impact on the conservation and
sustainability of natural resources inside and out the PAs. In the
sustainable rural development component, activities would aim at
enhancing the productivity of poor producers, thereby reducing the
pressure on the resource base on-farm and in protected areas. In both
components, project activities would be planned in such a way as to
maximize their positive environmental impact.
Program Objective Categories
14. As described above, most project activities and benefits are
related to the productive activities of the poor inhabitants of rural
migration source areas and the sustainable use of the natural resource
base. Therefore, the project is designated as belonging to the Program
Objective Categories of : (a) Poverty Alleviation; and (b) Environmental
Sustainable Development. The project is included in the Poverty
Category: Program of Targeted Interventions.
Project Risks
15. There are three main risks. One is the risk of continuing
deforestation and degradation in protected areas despite the project.
The premise of the project itself is to support a strengthened
protected area policy, prioritized protected area investments, and
rural migration source area development to ameliorate this risk. A
second risk concerns the ability of the implementation agencies, MIDA
and INRENARE, to discharge their intended roles, including the
facilitation of involvement of NGOs in project implementation. This
risk would be ameliorated by selective institutional strengthening and
appropriate progress monitoring and evaluation. A third risk is
possible inadequate counterpart funding of project activities
including their continuation beyond loan closing. This risk would be
tackled by support from a complementary GEF Grant limiting incremental
recurrent cost, encouraging direct cost recovery for certain
activities, and by careful planning for and monitoring of government
and beneficiary contributions. Additionally, Government has been
continuously involved in project preparation and has modified
proposals to better meet its priorities (decentralization, poverty
reduction, environmental management); therefore it is expected the
project would be consistant with its budgetary priorities throughout
- 5 -



the project period.
Contact Point:   Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 16,
1996.
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
IN THE IBRD/IDA LENDING PROGRAM
Country: Republic of Panama                           Project ID No. PA7847
Project: Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Project
Appraisal Date: 09/23/96                              IBRD Amount($m):US$20m
Board Date: 01/97                                     IDA Amount($m): n/a
Managing Unit:   LADCN                                Sector:  Agriculture and
Environment
Lending Instruments: Specific Investment Loan         Status:
Preparation
Date (est.) for receipt of EA by Bank: a/a
EA Category: B                                        Date Assigned:
July 26, 1996
(Please do not leave any items blank.
Use "N/A or "To be developed" when appropriate)
(a) Promotion of sutainable development activities in selected poor
rural migration source areas; (b) improvement of the definition and
management of the national protected areas; and (c) strengthening of
the government and non-government agencies involved in the above
activities.
Current activities in migration source areas and protected areas
generate negative environmental impacts due to factors such as pressure
on the land and resource degradation. The premise of the project is to
counter those negative activities (see below).
The project may generate a range of minor negative impacts in the
Sustainable Rural Development and the Protected Areas Management
components, as the project would finance small irrigation subprojects,
rehabilitation of access roads, and other productive infrastructure
investments and basic infrastructure in protected areas.
- 6 -



Project activities would aim to reduce the pressure on the resource base
in protected areas and migration source areas by enhancing the
productivity or poor producers and the sustainability of their actions.
An Environmental Assessment System would be developed during project
preparation and would be operational by project start-up. Such system
would include criteria for screening environmentally-desirable
subprojects, requirements to implement mitigating measures, and a
monitoring system to ensure that adequate steps to maximize positive
effects and minimize negative ones are taken during subproject
implementation
The project's expected negative environmental impact is relatively
minor, and a system to minimize and mitigate such negative impact will
be in place prior to start-up of project activities. The project does
not require an independent EIA and is classified as a "B."
Category A: Environmental Assessment: Start-up date, date of first
draft, and currect status.
Category B: Is there a separate environmental analysis? If yes,
when is it due?
n/a
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local
groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given
permission to release EA, etc.).
Protected area management plans prepared before project start-up with
considerable involvement of local communities and NGOs. These local
organizations have been consulted extensively for the preparation of the
sustainable rural development component, including indigenous groups, in
project areas. An IPDP would be prepared before appraisal.
Signed by:
LADCN
Signed by:
LATEN
7-



