                  Document of
               The World Bank




                                          Report No: 30755-PA

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (SCL-41580 PPFB-P3060)

                     ON A

                     LOAN

      IN THE AMOUNT OF 22.5 US$ MILLION

                    TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                    FOR A

RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT




               December 26, 2004

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Balboas
                                             1 = US$ 1

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 ­ December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABC             Atlantic Biological Corridor
AMI             Agricultural Marketing Institute
BC              Biodiversity Conservation
CAP             Community Action Plan
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CDD             Community Demand Driven
Comarca         Indigenous Administrative District
Corregimiento   Smallest Administrative Division in Panama
CTC             Corregimiento Technical Committee
FES/FIS         Social Emergency Fund (Fondo de Emergencia Social)
FUSARD          Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development
GEF             Global Environmental Facility
GOP             Government of Panama
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IDIAP           Agricultural Research Institute (Instituto de Investigación Agropecuaria)
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IICA            Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Development
INRENARE        Institute for Renewable Natural Resources (Instituto de Recursos Naturales
                Renovables)
IO              Implementing Organization
IPDP            Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
LIB             Limited International Bidding
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MBC             Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
MEDUC           Ministry of Education
MIDA            Ministry of Agricultural Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
MINSA           Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MOP             Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Publicas)
NAPAS           National Protected Area System
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non Governmental Organization

PA        Protected Area
PAMBC     Panama Atlantic Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PRONAT    Panama Land Administration Project
PTC       Provincial Technical Committee
RUTA      Regional Unit for Technical Assistance in Agriculture in Central America
SA        Special Account
SDC       Sustainable Rural Development Committee
SINAP     National Protected Areas System (Sistema Nacional de Área Protegidas)
SOE       Statement of Expenses
SRD       Sustainable Rural Development
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme



                        Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                      Country Director      Jane Armitage
                       Sector Manager       John Redwood
                     Task Team Leader       Mark Austin

                                           PANAMA
              RURAL POVERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Borrower Implementation Completion Report Summary                       37

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



 MIDA Dec. 10 2004 Ltr.pdfANAM Dec. 16 2004 Ltr.pdf

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



Project ID: P007847                                                  Project Name: Rural Poverty & Natural Resources
Team Leader: Mark A. Austin                                          TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 27, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Poverty & Natural Resources                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-41580; PPFB-P3060
    Country/Department: PANAMA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (46%); Central government administration
                            (28%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (26%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Other rural
                            development (P); Rural policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 06/06/1995                                      Effective: 03/09/1998                03/31/1998
      Appraisal: 10/06/1996                                        MTR: 11/01/2000                  12/08/2000
      Approval: 05/08/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF PANAMA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE/INSTIT. FOR
                                           RENEWABLE NATURAL RES.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:             Mark Austin
ICR Primary Author:             A team composed of Andres
                                Lopez; Hernando Garzon;
                                Alejandro Deeb; Teresa Roncal;
                                Samuel Taffesse; and Mark
                                Austin


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:       S
                     Sustainability:     L
   Institutional Development Impact:     SU
                 Bank Performance:       S
            Borrower Performance:        S


                                                  QAG (if available)             ICR
                                Quality at Entry:                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives, as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (i) apply, on a pilot basis,
methodologies that would channel financial resources to rural communities to assist them in promoting
sustainable productive systems, and thereby reduce rural poverty, the degradation of natural resources and
migration; and (ii) promote the sustainable use and conservation of selected priority biodiversity areas.
Special emphasis was to be placed on gender and indigenous aspects.

More specifically, operational goals included: (a) creating capacity at the local community level to
organize, self-diagnose problems, plan activities through participatory means, seek out and negotiate
assistance, and act in pursuit of resolving priority quality of life issues; (b) establishing a demand-driven
financing mechanism that operates in high poverty areas and provides matching grants to communities for
activities that help reduce rural poverty, improve the quality of life, and offer alternatives for sustainable
natural resource management and livelihood; (c) promoting the long term conservation and sustainable use
of Panama's biodiversity resources, including the biological corridor that passes through the Atlantic
watershed.

The project development objectives were fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) which identifies reviving sustainable growth and poverty alleviation as two key objectives of the
       1


Bank's program in Panama. The project focused on the rural indigenous and non-indigenous who were
included in the most vulnerable sectors of the population as defined by national household surveys. The
project relied on a decentralized approach to implementation. The number of communities and NGOs
responsible for implementation, and the self interest of these groups as beneficiaries, reduced risks and
increased the favorable outcomes. The project also directly supported the Government of Panama's (GOP)
efforts for alleviating poverty and inequality and fulfilling the mandate for conservation and management of
renewable resources.

1. Country Assistance Strategy for Panama (Report No. 13846-PAN), December 28, 1994. Discussed at the Board
on February 7, 1995.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision to the original objective was made.

3.3 Original Components:
To meet these objectives, the project financed three closely related broad components:
(a)      Sustainable Rural Development (SRD). Implemented by the Ministry of Agricultural
Development (MIDA), NGOs, and private community organizations. This component was designed to: (i)



                                                      - 2 -

promote community training and organizational assistance to communities to identify their needs, in
activities related to production technology, production support, community organization and rural
development, and to prepare community development or action plans (CAPs) using participatory
methodologies; and (ii) establish a demand-driven Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural
Development (FUSARD) that was to provide matching grants to communities to help finance these plans in
whole or in part (other sources of funds were to be used when available). Investments were supposed to
include agricultural system research, agricultural extension, technical assistance, training and productive
infrastructure, including mini-irrigation schemes, processing facilities, reforestation and rehabilitation of
rural roads.

(b)      Biodiversity Conservation (BC). Implemented by the National Environmental Authority
(ANAM) formerly the Institute for Renewable Natural Resources (INRENARE) and NGOs, this
component supported activities in selected areas in the Pacific Zone and the Atlantic Biological Corridor
(ABC) (the ABC became a separate stand along project financed by GEF). The component financed: (i)
biodiversity research and planning, including baseline studies, management plans, and environmental
impact assessment and monitoring; (ii) capacity building for relevant actors in biodiversity conservation
and sustainable use, including modernization of protected areas management and institutional strengthening
in environmental impact assessment process; and (iii) activities that contribute to biodiversity conservation
and sustainable use, including protected areas delimitation and infrastructure, and environmental
subprojects.

(c)      Project Coordination. The above two components were to be coordinated by a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU), to be formed mostly by seconded staff from the two lead institutions, MIDA and
ANAM. Through this component, the project was also supposed to finance technical assistance and studies
agreed with the Bank for these and other areas related to rural development and natural resources
management.

The project's components were directly related to achievement of the project objectives. The two technical
components, SRD and BC were reasonably related. Part of the focus of the SRD Component was to invest
in the high poverty areas of the Pacific Region as an attempt to stabilize rural population and attempt to
reduce the migration to the high priority protected areas in the ABC.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no changes in the project's original components.

Component; Cost; Rating
SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT;                 $23,600,000.00;    S
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION;              $11,600,000.00;    S
PROJECT COORDINATION;             $3,800,000.00;    S


3.5 Quality at Entry:




                                                     - 3 -

Performance rating for this aspect was satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS,
the donor program, and government priorities, which emphasized: (i) sustainable growth, (ii) poverty
reduction and (iii) environmental conservation. The Bank's safeguard policies were properly considered.
Project design was satisfactory and the assumptions about relevant external factors proved mostly
reasonable. A critical key assumption was that communities would be able to operate in identification,
prioritization, decision-making, execution, monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of their
subprojects, as they did. This assumption was key for the remarkable success of the SDCs.

However, the project design implicitly assumed that there would be a large demand for the financing of
`productive' (income-generating) subprojects. The design was assuming that the main constraint was
perhaps lack of financing (investment capital), and technical assistance and support. However, the actual
demand of subprojects suggests that there were other more important community needs such as the
provision of basic economic and social infrastructure. This is consistent with the results of other recently
completed CDD projects and the Drivers of Rural Growth Study carried out in Nicaragua and Honduras in
2004, that show that first communities need social and productive infrastructure, i.e. basic needs, and then
after these needs are met they are in a position to pursue productive activities.

In assessing the design of the development objective it must be recognized that although the SAR clearly
specify that the project... "would channel financial resources to rural communities to assist them in
promoting sustainable productive systems", it is also stated in the same paragraph that the project's
..."operational goals include: (b) Establishing a demand-driven financing mechanism that operates in high
poverty areas and provide matching grants to communities for activities that help reduce rural poverty,
improve the quality of life, and offer alternatives to sustainable natural resource management and
livelihood." Given this goal the project was wide open to any type of subprojects that could "reduce rural
poverty" and, as such, the design in itself was bound, in principle and in practice to compromise to some
extent "promoting sustainable productive system", since the implementing agency in the allocation of funds
and community resources would need to chose between more or less resources for "productive subproject",
or other types of subprojects, such as "economic and social infrastructure", as in fact was the case. From
this perspective many of the performance indicators, while indicative, became less relevant and additional
new indicators were agreed upon.

The project was designed so that other institutions like the Social Fund (FES/FIS), Ministries of Public
Works (MOP), Education (MEDUC) and Health (MINSA), would finance and support community
execution of non-productive related subprojects and Ministry of Agricultural Development (MIDA) and
National Environmental Authority (ANAM), the two project executing agencies, would focus on productive
and natural resource subprojects. The reality was that these other entities did not have the operational and
administrative capacity to work in a decentralized way with community organizations in project execution
directly in the field including transferring money directly to communities. These necessary trade-offs and
the possibility that the other sectoral agencies were not in a position to directly support non-productive
subprojects were not highlighted from the outset in the design of the project. From this perspective the
design of the project created some tension in the implementing agency as to what to favor. As a result, a
decision was made early on in project implementation by both the Bank and the Borrower that the project
would directly support community execution of both productive and social infrastructure types of
subprojects defined as priorities by the communities.

In retrospect it seems that FUSARD could have been designed as a separate component versus
subcomponent in order to enhance its institutional role as it financed subprojects from both the SRD and
BC Components.




                                                      - 4 -

Project design considered the relevant lessons learned from previous Bank operations in the sectors,
incorporating them into each of the components. Specifically, lessons learned included in project design
were: i) activities to strengthen community organization and establishment of Sustainable Rural
Development Committees (SDCs); ii) piloting of a participatory planning methodology to assist
communities to identify, prioritize, prepare and execute community investments improving ownership and
sustainability of subprojects; iii) training activities to strengthen community organization and participatory
planning; iv) strengthening and supporting community capacity, i.e. building social and human capital and
assets, to execute subprojects identified as high priority development initiatives of the communities; v)
technical support for investment planning and execution; vi) establishment of an investment fund to finance
high priority community rural investments ensuring poor people access to financial and technical resources,
to improve small farmer social and productive infrastructure and production; v) biodiversity capacity
building, research, planning, conservation and sustainable use and investments.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory. The project has achieved its major development
objectives. It contributed to the broad objectives of sustainable rural development, poverty reduction, and
environmental conservation. The project benefited 296,434 rural dwellers (originally estimated to be
100,000) including 59,286 families in the project area of 2,028 communities and supported the creation and
functioning of the 75 SDCs which facilitated successful community executed of subprojects, with the
support of NGOs, as pilot interventions. The project has also established a community participatory
planning and investment model that may be replicated to the rest of the Panamanian rural sector. The
agriculture and environmental sectors are already taking advantage of the lessons learned, among other
aspects, on: community organization, training (2,088 training events),2 participation in all the phases of the
subprojects cycle, community decision-making, inclusion and empowerment of women (thirty-five percent
of the Board of Directors of the SDCs are women) and youth (twenty-five percent of participants) and
indigenous groups (eight of the SDCs are located in the indigenous comarca of "Ngobe Bugle"). Social
capital was increased in terms of community organization, trust and creation of networks. These
experiences have substantially increased the communities own human resources and physical assets.

Additionally, with respects to the environment, the project facilitated the modernization and strengthening
of the National Protected Areas System (SINAP) by: establishing the legal mechanisms for decentralization
and management of protected areas; guidelines for developing management plans; regulations on the use
and conservation of Silvestre species; training of park wardens; and, the strengthening of the local
institutional capacities for shared park management. Also, an environmental awareness program was
designed for children and adults to augment their understanding of the importance of conserving the
protected areas and welfare that it provides the communities and thus reduce the pressure on the protected
areas. Ecotourism norms were established for protected areas and infrastructure constructed (visitors
centers and visitor housing). The Biodiversity Conservation component executed eighty-four subprojects of
which 67 were productive and represented 83% of all subproject funds for this component. These
subprojects directly benefited 12, 608 people who live within or on the perimeter of the protected areas.

Similarly, institutional capacity has been developed in operational processes, such as: allocating limited
financial resources, investment planning and programming, management, monitoring and control. The
operational goal of building social capital through a community participatory demand driven mechanism
was met. Many of the local communities were able for the first time to choose their projects, contribute in
their design, co-manage and co-finance them. The project also promoted the creation of the Federation of
SDCs to share and disseminate experiences through a stable and lasting association, in order to enhance



                                                         - 5 -

and consolidate the sustainability of the objectives of the project and facilitate the dialogue with central
government institutions.

In one of the few quantitative analysis of CDD projects, an Economic Sector Work study which included
this project, "Does Community Participation Improve Project Outcomes, Direct Investment Cost and
Project Sustainability? Experiences of Panama Small Rural Investments" showed that the community
participation approach used by the project reduces direct subproject costs, improves the quality of the
constructed works, contributes to the achievement of social goals and is inferred to promote long-term
sustainability of the subproject.

Many of the project targets were exceeded and good progress was made in the inclusion of women, youth
and indigenous peoples.

The first broad objective of applying "on a pilot basis, methodologies that would channel financial
resources to rural communities to assist them in promoting sustainable productive systems, and thereby
reduce rural poverty, the degradation of natural resources and migration" was satisfactorily achieved.
The project indeed was able to channel financial resources even to the most remote communities. However,
the achievement of direct sustainable productive (income generating) systems was less than expected; this
was a result of the communities prioritizing social infrastructure (rural roads and bridge amount to 235
subprojects and seventy percent of the executed projects refer to some type of physical infrastructure) over
productive systems (216 subprojects in productive infrastructure, 163 productive subprojects and 25
subprojects in production training). This ability of the communities to set their own priorities is in itself a
result of the project achieving its overall operational objectives, which was to promote a community
demand driven development, supported by a financing mechanism. This created an operational capacity at
the local community level to organize, self-diagnose problems, plan activities through participatory means,
seek out and negotiate assistance, and act in pursuit of resolving priority quality of life issues.

The reduction in poverty as a result of the communities implementing economic and social infrastructure
subprojects and productive systems (income generating) has been reflected in the communities' own
assessment of their livelihoods after project completion. The communities' labor productivity and income
earning potential have been improved through: the implementation of educational production farms system
(GRAPAS), which have improvement daily diets; access to markets and health services (through bridges
and road rehabilitation), which has increased commerce; and through the social infrastructure projects in
schools, latrines and many other subprojects and activities; which have developed social capital formation.
Each of these has strengthened productivity and income earning capacity among community members.
However, it should be noted that there was no minimal baseline established at the onset of the project,
therefore it is difficult to quantify the net effect on poverty reduction. As such, there is no information
about the state of the local economy before the roads were rehabilitated or about the morbidity rate before
the water systems and latrines were built.

Overall migration from the Pacific Region has not reduced significantly. Though the level of migration out
of the Pacific Region (i.e., Provinces of Herrera, Los Santos and Veraguas) has dropped, in comparison to
the decades of the 70s and 80s, its current level is still significant. This region is characterized for its flight
of poor rural peasants that migrate to the Northern regions of Darien and Bocas del Toro where
colonization is significant. For instance, in 1996, in Herrera province the population growth rate was
negative ­8.29% and during the last five years it has dropped to negative ­8.11%. A similar situation has
been found in Veraguas Province where the population growth rate has marginally decreased from negative
­13.48 in year 1996 to negative ­13.22% in year 2000. In contrast, in Los Santos Province the growth
rate has slightly increased from negative ­9.51 to negative ­9.55, in the same time period.



                                                        - 6 -

The second broad objective of promoting "long term sustainable use and conservation of selected priority
biodiversity areas" is rated satisfactory. In order to meet this objective the project focused its efforts in
                                                3


nine4 high priority protected areas in the Pacific Region. These areas were selected not only because the
high priority biodiversity conservation purpose, but also because the high concentration of extreme poverty
and, therefore, the highest risk in the unsustainable use and degradation of natural resources and their
specific environmental effects. In order to reduce the pressure on the natural resources, the project created
2 SDC associated with Protected Areas (PA) that along with other 27 SAC executed a total of 84
pilot-subprojects in their areas and benefited 96 communities. The subprojects were co-financed by
FUSARD. The subprojects implemented comprise a wide range of pilot subprojects, most of them in
agro-forestry and the reproduction of specific wildlife species, which have contributed to reduce poverty
and the degradation of natural resources. As part of the overall strategy, the National System of Protected
Areas (SINAP) was strengthened with the implementation of one PA management plan.

Through an extensive environmental-awareness program in cooperation with the MEDUC the project was
able to reach students throughout the country. This message was sent via diverse forms of media and public
events. The greatest achievement of these activities was the establishment of environmental education as
one of the subjects in the schools' curriculum, benefiting all students in Panama.

Main project accomplishments could be summarized by the perceptions on project impacts offered by the
presidents of the SDCs. A beneficiary survey was conducted in June 2004 of the 75 Sustainable
Development Committees (SDC) presidents, which shows extraordinarily positive results and their
perceptions on the high sustainability of project activities. The results showed:
·         eighty-six percent felt that the project improved life for the community;
·         ninety-eight percent felt that they learned useful skills to improve their quality of life;
·         seventy-three percent felt that project reached its objective;
·         ninety-four percent felt that the specific investments the project financed were well selected;
·         one hundred percent were satisfied with the project and their communities involvement in it;
·         ninety-six percent felt that they were sufficiently consulted and were able to provide their opinions
on both the selection and planning of community investments;
·         eighty percent felt they received sufficient technical support from the government or others for
investment execution;
·         eighty-nine percent felt they received sufficient administrative support for contracting and
management of investments;
·         thirty percent felt that their SDC, created by the project, could not continue financially without
external support in the near future;
·         fifty-five percent felt they had received support from other institutions/externally to finance new
subprojects; and,
·         sixty-five percent felt they had developed a sufficient asset base (human capital) to participate in
productive income generating activities.

2. The project carried out 2,088 training events (1,975 MIDA, 113 ANAM) that benefited 54, 269 rural dwellers
(51,344 MIDA, 2925 ANAM).
3. It is important to note that the activities in the biological corridor that passes through the Atlantic watershed
were transferred to the Panama Atlantic Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project (PAMBC), therefore their
achievement is not considered in this report. However, it may be noted that the global environment objective of the
PAMBC project is to contribute to the long-term conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in the
Panamanian portion of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.




                                                            - 7 -

4. The PAs include: Montuoso, Veraguas, Isla Canas, Los Santos, La Tronosa, Isla Iguana, Taboga, Canasas.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Sustainable Rural Development (MIDA). The overall achievement of this Component is
rated Satisfactory. This component is composed of two subcomponents: (i) Institutional and Community
Training, Organization, and Planning, and (ii) Rural Subprojects through the FUSARD.

Subcomponent (i): Institutional and Community Training, Organization, and Planning. This
subcomponent is rated satisfactory. This subcomponent's objectives were to provide (a) training and
establish and strengthen rural organization, (b) technical assistance to rural communities in production
technology development, and (c) production support.

(a) Training and Rural Organization. Under the project, 75 (73 MIDA and 2 ANAM) sustainable
development communities (SDCs), and 14 District (municipal) Technical Committees were created. The
project was able to incorporate 2,028 communities, or 928 more communities than originally planned in the
SAR. The project increased the number of communities that benefited directly to 556 from 440 original
planned. The project downscaled the number of SDCs from 220 (as proposed in the SAR) to 75. The
change in number of SDC was made based on the experience of the 28 SDCs established and ratified
during the implementation of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The level of effort needed to establish
and train the SDC was significant for just one community. It was decided to establish the SDC at the
Corregimiento level, which on average included 8 communities.

The project had a significant impact in developing local technical capacity and formation of human capital.
Knowledge, skills, and attitudes of many segments of Panama's poorest rural populations have improved
through training and capacity-building programs, internships (or on the job-training), and exchange of
successful experiences. The project has increased the capacity of communities at the local level.
Specifically, it has increased their ability to manage investment of subprojects and improved
financial-administrative capacity. Because poverty, and particularly extreme poverty, is more severe in
remote rural areas, building local capacity has been essential for increasing the participation of rural
communities in their own development. This training was matched with subproject investments financed
under the FUSARD subcomponent. 1,864 training events were financed, and 50,285 rural dwellers
benefited (47,882 community members; 2,400 technical specialists). The training events were financed by
NGOs (1,569 events) and by FUSARD (73 events). Of those beneficiaries trained by NGOs, 10,651 are
women or 35%. The above results are greater than the SAR indicators, in which 30 technical specialists
and 440 community members would be trained during the course of project implementation. Specific
actions to improve family incomes and meet basic needs were 254 training events of a total number of
1,183 trainings addressed capacity building in the area of income generation (productive projects), or 21%
and 35% when this number includes productive infrastructure. Training for basic needs (social
infrastructure) is equivalent to 65%. Some of the changes in priorities were due to changes in community
demand. As such, 797 out of 1, 334 subprojects were executed including school renovations, latrines, and
SDC centers.

(b) Technical assistance to rural communities in production technology development. A total of 167
productive subprojects have been carried out which support the generation of family income among the
rural poor. Technical assistance in productive technology development also included non-agricultural rural
activities, which generated employment for women, as was the case with the small-business garment shops.
These activities contributed to increasing rural incomes by providing new opportunities (agricultural and
non-agricultural) to rural dwellers and improving overall quality of life. The direct financing of small
income-generating subprojects or productive subprojects, has further enhanced rural income potential.



                                                      - 8 -

Original indicators estimated credit for productive subprojects operations to be 1,000 micro-credit
operations, while indicators for small irrigation projects were projected at 150. These operations did not
receive funds from FUSARD. In contrast, the SAR projects preparation and approval of 12 subprojects in
reforestation activities, while communities ended up demanding and preparing 20 subprojects. In addition,
the productive workshops for technical productive subprojects, the majority non-agricultural in nature,
were not contemplated in the project's original design. The results reflect the needs of rural populations,
their priorities, and management and operational capacity of productive activities.

The main weaknesses in technical assistance to rural communities in production technology development
included: (i) productive projects that support development and change in technology showed greater
emphasis on the production side; while other aspects such as marketing (demand aspects) of agricultural
and agro forestry products were inadequately addressed; (ii) little emphasis was put on providing farmers
with pricing policies and negotiation skills; (iii) limitations were identified in some productive subprojects
with respect to availability of equipment (small investments that could be shared among members of a
farm); (iv) micro-credit (support for production with respect to changes in technology) was not available
through the project; and (v) to address some of the limitations it is important that beneficiaries involved in
productive activities be provided with expertise in microeconomics and marketing (i.e. via Territorial
Coordinators).

The economic results from this activity were mixed. Some of the sustainable farms sampled had an
economic rate of return of 42% to the total investment while some production modules sampled had a
negative economic rate of return (Veraguas, La Canal Blanca, production module for example, had an
economic rate of return of approximately negative 2%.). The mixed results may be indicative of wide
differences in the capacity of those providing technical assistance (MIDA technicians, technicians hired by
the community, NGOs). This lack of capacity was identified by both the ANAM and MIDA coordinating
units.

(c)Production support. This activity was marginally satisfactory. Production support, as proposed in the
SAR was to cover the following areas: (i) marketing and agrarian commercialization; (ii) rural
agro-industry; and (iii) rehabilitation of rural roads. The project financed both productive and social
infrastructure. Productive infrastructure refers to physical capital that specifically supports the generation
of income and commerce. These include: rehabilitation of rural roads, bridges, and fords (bridges and fords
were not specifically mentioned in the SAR). Social infrastructure refers to works that address immediate
social needs or benefits, including: improvement of schools, latrines, and environmental parks, among
others. Project experience has shown that once communities have satisfied a minimum level of basic social
and productive infrastructure and developed a minimum level of social and human capital; they start to
request support for productive (income generating) investments.

The project financed a total of 216 productive infrastructure subprojects, 149 productive subprojects and
25 training subprojects (organic agriculture, food processing, small-enterprise and credit access, marketing
and post harvest) that benefited a total of 127,146 rural dwellers. NGOs provided 160 training and
internships with resources from the subcomponent on Community Organization. This offered TA in areas
such as marketing agro industry, maintenance of roads, among others. While productive subprojects had a
rigorous TA component on production (15% to 20% of project costs) integrated into the overall subproject
budget, these were not supported with accompanying marketing and commercialization expertise.
Marketing was offered through training (although limited in comparison with TA component on
production). A survey of training offered show that only 20 events (with 615 beneficiaries) were offered in
marketing and commercialization of products. Buyers' directory, information on prices and markets,


                                                        - 9 -

identification of marketable offers, and development of master plans were not carried out by the project.

With assistance from the Agricultural Marketing Institute (AMI), producers organizations were provided
training in 31 field visits, 2 contracts for assistance with buying and selling, organization of 86 Sustainable
Productive Farms, establishment of 34 farmers fairs (23 local, 11 municipal), facilitation of the
participation of 188 organizations in the fairs, development of 3 Municipal Master Plans, design for 1
municipal public market, and trained 14 mayors in municipal agriculture planning. The SAR indicators
projected more assistance in purchasing and sale contracts (total of 40 contracts), classification standards,
directories per district, and general training in the area of marketing and commercialization. In practice, the
role of AMI was limited to providing technical comments to investments. Aim's main weaknesses, as a
public institution, included limited resources and area coverage, and lack of technical expertise to offer
systematic and up-to-date information.

The project has shown good results in the rehabilitation of rural roads as was originally foreseen.
Approximately 502 Km of roads were rehabilitated, in contrast to the 408 Km projected in the SAR. The
economic impact of road rehabilitation goes beyond the kilometers per se as it often links otherwise isolated
communities and facilitates commerce. Subprojects for road rehabilitation included funds assigned for
maintenance, tools, and specific TA. Project funds have gone beyond what was originally proposed in the
SAR and have financed other infrastructure considered productive in nature, such as: bridges, fords,
workshops (artisans, wood made supplies, etc), responding to community demand and benefiting 107,162
rural dwellers. The total demand for productive infrastructure amounted to US$4.3 M (including
counterpart funds and 31% of total funds offered by FUSARD).

Subcomponent (ii): Rural Subprojects through the Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural
Development (FUSARD). This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. The objective of this subcomponent
was to create a demand-driven financing mechanism for sustainable development (FUSARD) to operate in
high poverty areas in the Pacific and provide matching grants to communities for activities that help reduce
rural poverty, improve the quality of life, and offer alternatives for sustainable natural resources
management and livelihood. The Fund assisted in establishing the following physical capital: 1,334
infrastructure, productive and natural resource management subprojects (Component's A and B ­ both
MIDA and ANAM supported subprojects). These works have been achieved at unit costs, which were
                                               5


generally lower than those supported by other agencies in the same period and in the same areas and their
future maintenance has been made more sustainable due to local communities involvement.

Investment and execution of funds implemented by communities reach a total of US$ 14.1 M (FUSARD
committed US$10.6 M, community counterpart funding was US$3.4 M by and other sources of funding
from bilateral and multilateral donors, government matching funds was US$1.1 M). These projects directly
or indirectly benefited 296,434 rural dwellers living in the poorest Corregimientos in Panama. The SAR
contemplated that FUSARD would finance 2,444 sub projects for US$15.5 M. The SAR proposed 2,200
productive sub projects with an average investment of US$1,300. The 148 subprojects approved under the
same category represent an average investment of US$ 19,630. This makes it difficult to compare the
initial projection of 2,444 sub projects with the actual number of subprojects financed at 1,334. The
average subproject cost was USD$11,574 compared to the original projected US$6,342 in the SAR. Actual
community counterpart funding was 24.5% compared to original projections were 21.5%.

Communities favored both basic social and productive infrastructure (73% of all investments financed by
FUSARD). Infrastructure projects have contributed to increase the marketability of local products as well
as the productivity in human capital formation. Experience shows that new markets and productivity gains



                                                       - 10 -

have generally translated into greater local/rural income earning capacity. In this sense the project has
indirectly enabled communities to increase their income. These results are further supported through the
financing of small income-generating subprojects, or productive investments, which have increase rural
potential and actual income. It can be concluded that investments such as electrification, rehabilitation of
roads, and waterways will benefit the same segments of the population given the communal nature of these
interventions. Communities have given these investments high priority to those projects that have a higher
coverage per area. The numbers show that rural dwellers have been benefited with more than one project,
although it is unclear if all the target population has been benefited.

Component B: Biodiversity Conservation

This component is rated Satisfactory. The key activity included under this component was the Pacific
                                         6


Zone Protected Area Management. The environmental component was satisfactorily executed and was
especially successful in the area of environmental education, public awareness campaigns, community
outreach efforts, and in establishing legal and planning instruments that elicited community participation in
the decentralization process of protected areas management and in strengthening the SINAP. The project
utilized the synergies in the national efforts of ANAM and the Panama Atlantic Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor Project that augmented the impact of their educational and community participation through
sustainable development subproject initiatives. On the other hand, the development of the potential for
ecotourism in the protected areas was moderate. The BC Component had five subcomponents: i)
Modernization of the National Protected Areas System (SINAP); ii) Strengthening of Priority Protected
Areas; iii) Reduction of Pressure on Protected Areas; iv) Ecotourism Development; and, v) Subproject
Financing.

The ANAM team has used a varied strategy in the annual planning of the use of the component's
resources: monitoring of cost tables; selection of activities consistent with objectives; and submission of
detailed POAs each year for Bank no objection. In addition to this, performance and impact indicators are
detailed in the SAR Annexes and Annex 1 of this ICR. For some subcomponents, unique information tools
were developed which ANAM used to carry out the corresponding monitoring. Component B funds have
been well used, executed and have had an important impact.

Subcomponent i): Modernization of the National Protected Areas System (SINAP): This subcomponent
financed various efforts to strengthen the planning of SINAP such as the preparation of management plans
and annual operating plans in priority protected areas; support for updating the regulatory framework; and
the design and start-up of a national training program for staff involved in the management of SINAP. As
part of the regulatory framework, forest fire prevention and water monitoring and strengthening of the PAs,
Law 24 of June 7 of 1995 that regulates wildlife use and management was validated and developed. The
respective rules and regulation of this Law were also prepared and approved.

Subcomponent ii): Strengthening of Priority Protected Areas: This subcomponent focused on six
protected areas with major economic value and biological diversity, through the minimum allocation of
needed infrastructure (in order to provide visitors and local inhabitants of the PA´s with appropriate
settings to participate of the environmental education program established by Component BC and, thereby,
enhance public visitation to these areas and increase parks revenues), equipment and maintenance for
surveillance, control and protection of protected areas; and purchase of equipment for forest fire control
and prevention. Five sets of equipment were put in place for forest fire protection, 25 rivers were monitored
and one management plan was implemented.




                                                      - 11 -

Subcomponent iii): Reduction of Pressure on Protected Areas: This was carried out by means of the
promotion of Sustainable Development Committees (SDCs); the establishment of an environmental
education program; and the titling and demarcation of farms located on park boundaries (transferred to
PRONAT). This activity included the demarcation of boundaries for two forestry reserves. The most
important of these was the demarcation of 53.7 kms of boundaries of the Montuoso Forest Reserve. Also,
Executive Decree No. 210 of September 20, 2,000 was approved, which allows for land titling
regularization within protected areas and, as a result, 96 farming parcels received property titles to assist in
the consolidation of their operations. Of particular success was the environmental education program
developed in which a total of 113 training events were developed (seminars/workshops (32), workshops
(24), seminars (18) community exchanges (23) and others hands on practices (16)). These activities
benefited 2,925 rural dwellers.

Subcomponent iv): Ecotourism Development: The project developed a regulatory frameworks and studies
for: regulation on administrative concessions of protected areas; guidelines for ecotourism development in
protected areas of the Azuero peninsula and Taboga Island; and diagnostic of the feasibility of providing
public services in various protected areas of the Azuero peninsula and Taboga Island, for the purpose of
allowing the creation of local and foreign ecotourism companies in protected areas. Subprojects promoted
the improvement of tourism infrastructure managed by community groups (CDS or local cooperatives). In
addition, eight visitor and environmental education centers have been built in protected areas for the
purpose of increasing the services that may be provided to visitors. Of particular importance is the Tourist
Center built in RVS Island Iguana. Likewise, various interpretative trails are being constructed in the
project's buffer areas. However, the development of the ecotourism potential of the protected areas was
moderate. In the implementation of this activity both promotion and advertisement activities received less
focus, as well as limited coordination with the Panamanian Institute for Tourism (IPAT).

Subcomponent v): Subproject Financing: ANAM has financed a wide range of subprojects through 29
SDCs, including its two SDCs. The Biodiversity Component has facilitated the formulation and approval
of a total of 84 community Sustainable Development subprojects totaling USD$1.2 M in protected areas
and directly benefiting 12,608 people, of which 4,486 were men (36%), 4,300 youth (34%), and 3,775
were women (30%). Of these, 73 subprojects are focused on environmental issues such as agro-forestry,
reforestation, animal breeding, artisan fishing, environmental education, watershed management and solid
waste management while the 10 remaining subprojects are concentrated on initiatives for institutional
strengthening and the construction of latrines and aqueducts. An analysis of the social, environmental and
economic impact of 57 of the 84 community sustainable development subprojects established that 67% and
20 % of them had high to moderate impact, respectively, in improving rural dwellers quality of life, as well
as community sustainable use of natural resources in and around protected areas.

Component C: Project Coordination

The performance of this component is rated Satisfactory. Component C was design as a separate
component due to: the project's main objectives required to work with two central government sectoral
institutions (MIDA and INRENARE/ ANAM) that work fairly independently due to their specializations; a
natural need to bridge these two institution through a neutral sectoral Project Coordination unit; the design
took into account the Bank's experience in other projects, which points out to the institutional constraints
and risks, and highlights the benefits of operating in this fashion. These reasons seemed to justify the design
of the PCU as one of the project's components. However, because the technical and operational
coordination council never functioned, MIDA effectively controlled the PCU and project budget including
the BC Component executed by ANAM. As such, the PCU was never implemented as planned and in
March 2000, MIDA, ANAM and the Bank decided to assign executing functions for Component B


                                                     - 12 -

exclusively to the Coordination Unit (UCP) of the Panama Atlantic Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
project in ANAM and Component A to the MIDA PCU and divide the resources assigned to Component C,
Project Administration between Components A and B. This allowed each institution to better achieve their
component and the project objectives.

The operation of each of these units in the project area was satisfactory. They executed project activities
through their respective regional offices and the coordination between the technical team, at the national
level, with the staff and consultants at the local level. The technical assistance for Component B was given
by ANAM's technical staff through its regional offices, with the support of specialist in the ANAM PCU,
as well as by technicians hired directly by communities through the community SDC. Similar arrangements
were made through MIDA's technical staff in its regional offices, as was needed by the beneficiaries in
their specific subprojects.

Throughout project implementation, MIDA experienced problems with the financial agent, Inter-American
Institute for Agricultural Development (IICA), in their timeliness of processing contracts and payments, in
interfering in technical issues and changing the standard consultant contract, which had the Bank's no
objection. IICA's unilaterally changed the standard consultant contract that was used for both MIDA and
ANAM contracts. IICA was contractually obligated to a standard contact with Bank no objection under
their contract with MIDA and ANAM and under the Bank's Guidelines. The Bank in various missions
recommended the corresponding corrective actions but they were never implemented.

During project implementation Component B demonstrated a high level of capacity in public relations and
communication regarding accomplishments of project outcomes. Regarding Component A, MIDA
executed, there had been a lack of performance communications and public relations. In the last 18
months of the project, a communications consultant was hired and communications started to marginally
improve.

The project had unsatisfactory to marginally satisfactory performance in monitoring and evaluation
(M&E). ANAM had provided accurate and timely information on a consistent bases to the Bank but MIDA
had difficultly providing timely information and most missions invested a significant amount of time mining
for project implementation data. Numerous attempts to install an M&E system did not produce adequate
results. M&E poor performance had been flagged various times during project implementation, and the
M&E rating was downgraded a number of times when the situation deteriorated to unacceptable.

Overall, the ANAM PCU enjoyed more stability throughout project implementation than the MIDA PCU
because of steadiness in its own directive and because of the less frequent changes in the leadership of its
main sectoral institution. During project execution, ANAM had one change in both the General
Administrator and component coordinator. MIDA had four changes of ministers, and 4 component
coordinators. The ANAM PCU also maintained most of its technical team while the MIDA PCU suffered
changes in project personnel for political reasons. For the MIDA PCU, the last eighteen months of project
execution where characterized by a high level political influence and involvement in the presidential
political campaign.

5. 229 rural roads, bridges and fords, 216 schools, 197 latrines, 183 aqueducts, 127 farms, 67 SDC offices, 60
training, 40 solar panels, 30 agro-forestry, 20 productive community -infrastructure, 18 reforestation, 17 plant
nurseries, 16 animal nurseries, 15 health center, 13 community production equipment, 13 training in SDC, 16
studies and pre-investment, 7 electrification, 6 others, 6 agricultural/forestry/ pasture, 6 solid waste management
and installation of latrines, 6 tree nurseries, 4 urban enhancement, 4 turtle hatchery and sea farming, 3 fisheries, 3
handicrafts, 3 natural resources management, 2 power generation, 2 community transportation, 2 artisan fishing, 2



                                                          - 13 -

solar energy product, and 1 playground.
6. This rating is only in reference to the Pacific Zone Protected Area Management; the Atlantic Biological
Corridor is now part of an ongoing separate project and would be evaluated in a future ICR

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A financial analysis was carried out for 12 probable revenue-generating types of investments (timber seed
processing, nurseries, lumber, coffee, fruit plantation and processing, cheese, and others) the results
indicated positive rates of return that fluctuated between 13 and 24 percent. The actual results from
productive projects indicate a wide variance. Some of the sustainable farms sampled had an economic rate
of return of 42%, while some production modules for example had an ERR of approximately negative 2%.
This mixed results may be indicative not only of differences in profitability of various investment, but also
for those cases with similar productive activities, it may be due to broad differences in actual productive
(and marketing) capacity of community member, as well as the quality of the technical assistance being
provided.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
After project completion, a sample of subprojects was taken to evaluate their actual financial rates of
return. The sample examined 21 executed subprojects, used a discount rate of 12% to estimate their NPV
and respective rates of return for projects with an average life expand of a twenty-year period. The random
sample included subprojects of the following types: productive, environmental, and
productive-infrastructure. The results of the financial evaluation have estimated that the financial internal
rate of return (FIRR) of the productive and environmental subprojects yields on average an annual
financial net benefit of US$19.7 per beneficiary; a financial return of US$3.87 per day per employed
person and a FIRR of 6%. In contrast, it was also estimated that the same productive and environmental
subprojects yield on average an annual economic net benefit of US$35.8 per beneficiary; and economic
return of US$7.26 per day per employed person and an EIRR of 17%. The reason for the greater economic
versus the financial net benefits is because the economic analysis by definition takes into account other
factors, such as, the economic value of non monetary benefits, including free family labor, as well as the
implicit economic benefit of the farming products for own consumption among farming families, as well as
the implicit benefits of the subprojects on physical infrastructure, such as roads and bridges and
environmental conservation subprojects which also generate substantial benefits. Comparing the FERR
before and after the project it may be concluded that the actual FIRR of 6% in the sampled subprojects
falls substantially below the wide range of FIRR (12.5% to 49%) that was computed as indicative for the
productive subprojects during project preparation. However, for the broad project's objective, of poverty
reduction, the actual EIRR of 17%, which is much greater than the FIRR and a better indicator of the
subprojects' actual impact on poverty reduction.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is rated as Substantial. The project succeeded in setting up
a SDC for each of the 75 Corregimientos in the project area. Eight of these SDC are actually operating in
the project's indigenous areas, and no less than one third of the SDC board members are women and youth.
The subprojects implemented were chosen and co-financed directly by community members and supported
by SDCs and NGOs. Not only was the project effective in building this local institutional capacity, but it
also strengthened their national institutional counterparts: MIDA and ANAM. In the case of ANAM, the
project contributed to the strengthening of the National Protected Areas System (NAPA) achieving tangible
results in norms and regulations, information systems, area management and operations plans, staff
training, infrastructure and equipment (1 executive decree, 2 CDS organized, 84 subprojects, 113 training
events benefiting 2,925 people-28% women, 96 land property titles, monitoring systems in 25 rivers, 2
boundaries for forestry reserves, 5 sets of equipment for fire prevention in forests). Through MIDA's PCU,



                                                        - 14 -

the project executed 20 contracts with local NGOs and 8 inter-institutional agreements to technically assist
the SDC in the development of their local capacities.

Throughout the project's implementation these two institutions together with the SDC gained new
knowledge and increased their respective technical capabilities. They also improved their ability to reach
out to the poorer and more isolated communities, both technically and financially. There have been tangible
institutional changes in the local and central capacities of MIDA and ANAM in terms of allocating limited
financial resources and negotiating skills (including co-financing arrangements) and operational,
administrative and executing capacities in the project cycle, which have led to a more effective use of
human and financial resources.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One major factor inside the control of government but outside the control of the implementing agencies was
that during the project implementation period, Panama had two administrations. Each administration had
influenced personnel changes in the project and in the contracting of NGOs and termination of their
contracts. This resulted in the loss of trained and experience technical and administrative staff and caused
implementation delays. It is estimated that over 30 person years worth of experience had been removed
from the project for non-technical reasons.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government influenced project implementation through direct political intervention of the MIDA PCU.
This influence caused implementation delays, significant at times, and resulted in US$500,000 being
cancelled from the loan. These resources were to directly support community subprojects. The MIDA
PCU was designed to work with 12 staff, however not every position was filled and there was relatively
high rotation7 among key PCU staff. During the final year and a half of the project, a critical factor that
affected project implementation was the apparent weak cooperation and support from the MIDA
authorities. This lack of cooperation was seen as a reaction to Bank's procurement procedures which
presented challenges to GOP's ad hoc decision to change project personnel. During this time period the
Ministry was unsupportive of the project team and the MIDA PCU, chose not to sign aid memoirs,
drastically reduced access to projects telecommunication8 equipment, and the fired several project team
members on the closing day of a supervision mission.9 The preparation of this report was affected by the
MIDA's resistance to pay wages to the already extremely weakened10 PCU's team, left to bring all the
activities to a close.

The establishment of the PCU was another factor subject to government control that affected project
implementation. Following the common practice of creating a local team composed of consultants and not
necessarily affiliated with the two main institutions (MIDA and ANAM), these consultants, generally
independent of the respective ministries, were expected to work closely with them as was the case in
ANAM PCU. As expected, some members the PCU's team were somewhat more stable, more politically
independent, better paid, more motivated, and more insulated from changes in the government environment,
11which allowed for a more focused and experienced group of professionals. However, in MIDA, these
differences resulted in frictions and jealousy from the less paid12 and equipped government counterparts,
and led to a reduced willingness of cooperation by some MIDA staff. Nevertheless, despite these
difficulties in coordinating with key stakeholders in the government the consultants/MIDA PCU performed
well.

Another less important, though relevant factor under government control was the performance of the



                                                     - 15 -

institution in charge of the administration of the project's financial resources. This role was given to the
IICA who exhibited poor financial management. The contract between MIDA/ANAM and IICA established
that the communication between these two institutions for the purposes of project execution was to be
through PCU Coordinators, and not directly, in top-down fashion, from MIDA or ANAM to IICA. The
minister of MIDA established a direct relationship with IICA which affected the performance of IICA in
the project's financial management and slowed projected implementation.

7. In about a six-year period 29 staffs have worked for the MIDA PCU.
8. The project team was forced to use cell-phones as a result.
9. The Task Manager was later able to get them reinstated by appealing to the minister's superiors.
10. The positions for the PCU financial administrator and the accountant were vacant in the closing phase of the
project, which was undoubtedly critical for project completion reporting and evaluation.
11. This is not to say that this was necessarily achieved, the project team for component A was indeed greatly
affected by government inference making changes to the team. And some of the team members did have their own
political agendas. However, without this insulating practice the outcome most likely would have been fairly low.
12. The PCU tended to have more specialized professional, which were better paid than their government
counterparts.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agencies (MIDA and ANAM) executed the project satisfactorily based on the Indicative
General Plan (PIG), the Annual Operational Plans (POAs). Both MIDA and ANAM concurred that their
technical specialist did not have sufficient training to undertake all the tasks that they were expected to
perform. In addition, there was lack of both experience and technical expertise of some of the NGOs
working in project implementation. This was especially true with the specialists working with the
small-scale productive units (GRAPAS). Furthermore, despite urgings from the Bank, the MIDA team did
not consistently maintain adequate records on quantitative project indicators (targets). However, this was
partially a result of frequent changes in some MIDA's team members, which did not have sufficient time to
both familiarize themselves with the project and learn how to monitor and maintain more adequate
operations.

The monitoring and evaluation component had a slow start and lacked adequate management by the MIDA
PCU. It seems that the Bank's supervision missions should have been more thorough with respect to
MIDA's and ANAM's actual use of performance indicators, especially on the earliest months of the
project. Nevertheless, and despite these difficulties, the implementing agencies were able to exceed
expectations primarily on social capital formation and social and productive infrastructure subprojects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total actual project costs were US$41.0 million or 105% of the total project costs estimated at appraisal.
The total project cost were greater than projected due to increased community counterpart contributions.
Additionally, US$550,000 of the loan was cancelled from the SRD Component as it was not committed by
the closing date of the project (most of these resources were allocated for subprojects). Expenditures under
Component C were 35% of estimate and resources were applied to community training, organization,
planning activities and subprojects and biodiversity conservation in the Pacific. Communities receiving
investments grants exceeded the projections of counterpart-financing from 21.5% to 24.5%. The project's
financing plan is shown in Annex 2. Counterpart funds provided by GOP amounted to US$4.5 million, or
100% of the appraisal estimate. The actual versus estimate disbursement represented a 12 to 18 month
lag. Two extensions were given for a total of 24 months.

6. Sustainability




                                                        - 16 -

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's sustainability is rated as Likely. The project has three main outputs: (i) Social capital
building through Sustainable Rural Development Committees (SDCs), (ii) Social physical assets in
infrastructure and productive subprojects, and (iii) Environmental conservation through
Education-awareness and protected areas management mechanisms.

According to the MIDA PCU, approximately fifty or about 70% of the SDCs will be able to continue their
operations in the future. This estimate is corroborated by the results of the survey given out to the SDCs'
presidents during the ICR mission. The survey found that 68% of the Committees' presidents believe that
the SDCs will continue operating after project completion. The survey also found that 55% of the SDCs
have obtained additional financing from other sources different from project' funds. This ability to benefit
from outside financing is vital for SDCs' sustainability. The major reasons given for the inability of some
of these committees to gain financial support were: the remoteness of their communities, the lack of trained
personnel, and the insufficiency of their own economic resources. However, the prospect of the SDC'
sustainability will be greatly improved by the recent formation of a Confederation of SDCs.

In regard to the physical infrastructure subprojects, their expected sustainability varies. One out of the six
rehabilitated surveyed roads (17%) was problem free, three of them (50%) were highly susceptible to rains
and two (33%) lacked the funding to maintain them. One road had an internal economic rate of return of
4% and a second sampled road the IRR was 15%. In contrast, nine out of the twelve sampled sustainable
farms (75%) were problem free; the other three (25%) had some financial difficulties. Their economic rate
of return was as low as 4% and as high as 26% (an average 12%) for a sample of seven sustainable farms.
The Agro-forestry production modules appear to be fairly sustainable; both sampled modules had no
operational problems and had an internal economic rate of return of 17% and 22% respectively. In contrast,
only two out of six sampled aqueducts were free of operational problems. The latrines faired better with 5
out of the 8 sampled being free of problems. The most noteworthy of the subprojects sampled was the
tortoise nursery, which was free of operational problems and had an economic rate of return of 42%.

With respect to biodiversity conservation component the sustainability of the environmental
education-awareness system is likely. Other than the sustainable productive subprojects, the implementing
agencies worked to promote environmental awareness/education through the media, workshops and the
Ministry of Education. Although there is not quantitative data, community participation both in ANAM´s
protected areas management activities, public participation events, and environmental consultation
committees, as well as in SDC, supports the fact that Component BC developed a successful public
awareness program, which has been internalized by rural poor. The message continues to be disseminated
through schools as a main component of the educational curriculum.
It seems critical for the sustainability of the SDCs to find a stable financial mechanism to insure that the
investments, among others, including training of local human resources, as well as the investments in social
capital, are fully capitalized. Therefore, the roles of central government institution in support of the CDD
approach (i.e., the SDCs) are vital. Sectoral ministries in particular, may play and important role in their
support of the SDCs. Also, the SDCs coordination with the local government entities (i.e., the
Corregimientos and the municipalities) is vital since they manage the local fiscal resources, including the
fiscal transfers from the Finance Ministry.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
It is worth noting that both MIDA's and ANAM's Project Implementation Reports have expressed some
concern regarding the Sustainability of some SDCs, not with standing the fact that several of the SDC have
already obtained financial funds from other sources. MIDA has streamlined technical support to the SDC



                                                      - 17 -

through the ministry's Rural Development Department and ANAM through the National Protected Areas
Department. GOP has expressed interest in a follow-up operation and is 85% finished with the project
preparation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.

The project was focused on the development needs of the most vulnerable sectors of the population and in
the most sensitive areas of environmental protection and conservation. In these respects it was highly
consistent with the CAS emphasis and GOP priorities on poverty alleviation and environmental protection.
The CDD approach challenged the conventional approach to sectoral development, still prevalent in
Panama, of a centralized top-down type of decision-making. It was a ground-braking attempt to use local
human resources to identify, prioritize, decide and implement their own subprojects based on their
community needs and priorities, including indigenous communities, women and youth. The willingness of
the GOP (MIDA and ANAM) and local society to follow this approach was properly recognized by the
identification team as a unique opportunity to address local development issues in a completely new
context.

Bank management recognized the unconventional aspects of the project concept and assigned the region's
most qualified staff and consultants, with the emphasis on social and environmental skills. The project
design and preparation moved forward with the dichotomy of a CDD approach with emphasis on
productive (revenue-generating) subprojects. Nevertheless, the lessons learned from previous projects on
the importance of beneficiary participation became the essence of project implementation. A Project
Preparation Facility were used to finance a pilot to establish SDCs and subprojects to develop the concepts
and procedures which would prove successful during project implementation. As a result project
preparation took 22 months.

The project followed applicable Bank safeguard policies and all financial management and procurement
requirements were met. Performance indicators were designed for most activities as part of project
preparation, placing emphasis on the productive (revenue generation) type of subprojects. While the
appraisal correctly analyzed the issues and challenges for each component, it seems it underestimated the
need for greater human resource development and a minimal level of physical infrastructure availability in
order to make the productive subprojects more viable. Though the appraisal could not have foreseen all the
potential constraints, the project reliance on the CDD approach for implementation, permitted it to succeed.


7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory. The Bank carried out on average two supervision visits
per year for a total of 12 supervision missions and two performance evaluations, one in November of 2000
and the other in January of 2003. Implementation progress was monitored on a continuing basis. Bank
supervision allowed the GOP and the Bank to guide the CDD approach and assure that community
investments were based on community demand and well executed. Based on the findings of these missions
it was concluded that project execution was satisfactory in its progress to achieve the development
objectives. Based on the project status reports (PSRs) as well as the aid memoirs, the project's financial
assistance, economic performance, social performance, institutional development and social capital
formation, as well as project's sustainability are all considered satisfactory or likely.




                                                      - 18 -

There were some inherent tensions in the project design between `targeted investments' (i.e.,
productive/income-generating subprojects) and a `practically open-community-demand-driven approach'
that were supposed to coexist together during project implementation, despite the fact that these two types
of subprojects had to compete for the same pool of financial resources. Further more, there was the
assumption, that some preexisting condition regarding human resources and social capital were already in
place and were sufficient to make the income-generating subprojects feasible. However, the results, despite
the technical assistance and training seem to suggest that this was not the case. This tension was resolved
by letting the CDD approach guide the project direction. While the SAR states that project indicators were
indicative and would depend on the priorities defined in the demand-driven CAPs, an effort to respond to
real community demand was made and the Borrower and the Bank agreed upon additional project
indicators that reflected a more open subproject menu and to better guide technical and operational support,
implementation, monitoring, supervision and project evaluation.

Realism of PSR ratings was satisfactory. Supervision demonstrated weaknesses in: a) officially revising
indicators (amendment on project indicators); b) ensuring an M&E system was established; and, c)
improving cooperation between executing agencies.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated Satisfactory.

GOP's priority for the project and its commitment to project objectives was strong from the beginning,
despite the need and associated difficulties of inter-institutional coordination between the two leading
sectoral institutions, MIDA and ANAM. These two institutions played a key role in identifying the project
through out an organized series of workshops to prepare an initial project proposal. Despite the inherent
difficulties of inter-institutional coordination, GOP always supported a participatory preparation process.
This created a sense of ownership among stakeholders, which insured the project's implementation process.
These institutions selected a quality team of local consultants for preparation work.

Based on the pioneering approach for Panama of a CDD type of project, it requested a PPF and undertook
a series of potentially pilot subprojects to assess their financial and economic impact on poverty alleviation
and environmental conservation. Project preparation also developed and evaluated the procedures for
efficient community participation. These arrangements allowed for the project to get off to a reasonable
start in subproject identification, prioritization and community decision-making. The model of assisting
already existing farming activities to move them gradually from an infant stage of economic activity to a
sort of micro-enterprise was consider as a "paternalistic" approach and therefore disregarded as an option.
In contrast the approach of starting with some type of productive microenterprise, although more attractive
in theory, was less viable in practice. Lastly, project preparation in dealing with the financial,
procurement, social and environmental elements of the project was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during implementation is rated Satisfactory. The two leading central
government institutions were able to reach the most remote communities in the project area. They both
were also successful in reaching indigenous communities and gave significant participation to indigenous
community members, women and youth in the direction and decision-making processes of their rural SDCs.
GOP successfully implemented the PPF on a reasonable time frame. Though there were significant delays



                                                       - 19 -

in project implementation, and changes in the leadership of the two implementing agencies, as well and
changes in the PCU staff, the project's objectives, design, and components remained the same until project
completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PCU MIDA and PCU ANAM performance in implementation is rated Satisfactory. Management and
staff shared the project vision and its emphasis in a community demand-driven development process. The
PCUs complied with the Bank's Safeguard policies, and maintained accounts in its regional offices that
were consolidated at headquarters and audited following Bank rules. There could have been a closer and
better coordination and cooperation between the two leading institutions (MIDA and ANAM) and between
the MIDA authorities and the MIDA PCU. As the latter was staffed with consultants, the MIDA PCU tried
to protect its prerogatives from encroachment by the superior authority. This situation caused friction and
in specific time periods it delayed project implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The project has contributed with several important lessons, as follows:

·       CDD projects involve a long process to create social and human capital which can be used as a
basis for productive activities. This project proved that a CDD approach require years of accompaniment
in order to train and coach the communities to generate social and human capital and engage actively in
productive activities that will increase rural family incomes. Considering the need for a foundation of
human capital as a platform for productive activities, these projects should be well thought out with the
assistance of local promoters.
·       CDD approach creates voice for the silent poor. Due to its CDD approach, the project has resulted
in communities gaining hope for a better community and better living conditions. Most importantly it has
developed confidence among its residents, and a stronger interest to demand a plan for local development. It
was evident in some ICR meetings with the presidents of the SDC, during the mission, that community
members were not any more "the silent poor" that they were before project preparation.
·       Investments financed by communities increase likelihood of better subproject maintenance. From
the community driven development (CDD) project approach in this project, the rural communities not only
gained the know-how to implement and finance future subprojects, but most importantly, they learned to
diagnose their needs and wants, set priorities and chose what to do first. Also, because the subprojects
actually executed were chosen by them they have also had strong incentives to contribute to their
maintenance. Furthermore, communities have also learned that demands could not automatically translate
into supply, since the community together with the government both needed to take into consideration their
limited financial resources. Communities, through their participation in the SDCs, have learned to
differentiate their "wants" from their actual "needs".
·       A project designed with CDD approach should have a dynamic M&E system that will be updated
as new subprojects are introduced into project implementation. In case of this project, although the project
design identified a set of subprojects and associated indicators, they soon became less relevant once the
type of projects selected by beneficiaries was found to be different. The project has to struggle throughout
its implementation in adjusting this indicators. The project also demonstrated the critical importance of
baselines, targets and indicators. Had a baseline been established, both project execution Dino
Frencescutti, FAO, in his evaluation recommended the incorporation basic criteria to be used in the design of the
subprojects: An effective ex-ante technical and economic evaluation; a realistic evaluation of demand; and an




                                                      - 20 -

evaluation of individuals, groups and institutions capacities. , reporting on its completion, and its own
assessment would have been more easily facilitated. A baseline would have made it easier to gauge
advancement.
·        It is crucial to insulate the PCU from political interference. The project demonstrated the wisdom
of creating coordination units (PCU) that provided some insulation from political influence and
governmental political changes. Had it not been for this insulation, the project would have suffered
substantially more political interference and personnel changes than it did. This was especially true during
the last year and a half of the project.
·        The follow-on project in preparation should have a much stronger emphasis on income generating
subprojects and the marketing of their products, in areas where there has been a significant development of
social and human capital and assets created by this project.
·        Clarify the specific role of other sectoral institutions (such as, MOP, MINSA, MEDUC, FIS) in
project implementation. Both the role and institutional capacity (administrative and operational) needed to
work to support community organizations (SDCs) and communities in subproject execution directly in the
field need to be defined and assessed and formal commitments from each institution on their role in the
project.
·        Design FUSARD as a separate component versus subcomponent in order to enhance its
institutional role as it financed subprojects from both the SRD and BC Components.
·        MIDA and ANAM need to have had a higher level of technical cooperation to exploit each
institutions comparative advantage in relation to support each others project activities.
·        A CDD approach would benefit from closer coordination with local authorities for potential fiscal
support for both capital and recurrent expenditures. The former as potential local co-financing and the
latter to assist in operation and maintenance of the corresponding subprojects. This relationship between
local authorities and communities can be made mutually beneficial without compromising the CDD
approach or the role of the local governments (i.e., the municipalities and the corregimientos).

10. Additional Information




                                                       - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


COMPONENT A: SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SUBCOMPONENT: COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION (Rural Training and Rural Organization)


          Outcome/Impact Indicators:                           Projected in SAR/PAD                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                                                                           8/04
a. Number of beneficiaries (SDC, independent                            220 SDCs                              75 SDCs with 8,496 Members
producers or other type of beneficiaries) who have                    Beneficiaries:                                  59,286 families
received strengthening from the RPNR Project.                        15000 families                                   296,434 people
                                                                      75000 people
b. Relation between beneficiaries who have received
strengthening and those who have submitted project
proposals.                                                                   -                                             100%
c. Relation between beneficiaries who have received
strengthening and those whose projects and
donations or credits have been approved.                                     -                                             100%
d. Relation between beneficiaries who have received                                                20 contracts were signed with NGOs to assist
strengthening and those who have undertaken                                                        65Corregimientos/SDCs.
contracts with NGOs, technical assistance service                            -
enterprises.
f. Participants per event and                                     71 Training Courses              1,975 training events
   usefulness.                                                                                     51,344 participants
g. Number of trained technicians and                              30 Technicians/SAR                  The project trained in total 2400 Technicians.
implementation of activities in which they have                    440 Promoters/SAR                             500 Community leaders.
received training.                                              250 Community leaders.                            95 MIDA Technicians.
                                                                120 MIDA Technicians.
h. Family income level, labor use, net earning levels                                               Income, earnings, labor productivity, and
and satisfaction of basic needs of RPNR Project                                                     satisfaction of basic needs have increased;
beneficiary families.                                                                               however there is no baseline available to
                                                                                                    compare.
i. Relation between women who were organized to        40% Women in SDCs                           35% Women in SDCs
benefit from the RPNR Project and total potential               30% young participants             25% young participants
beneficiaries.
j. Relation between women who have received
organizational support and the number of                                                                                 100%
consolidated groups.
k. Relation between the number of organized                        40% of Committees               35% Women
woman and donations or credits granted.                             Board of Directors             8 Indigenous SDCs with
                                                                        are women                  162 subprojects
l. Relation between the number of organized women                                                   The GOP and the Bank agreed not to implement
(groups) and repayment of credits granted or                                                        revolving funds. Only counterparts and matching
fulfillment of commitments related to donations.                                                    grants were used.
m. Economic result of projects implemented by                                                       Highly successful (e.g. in confections and
women groups.                                                                                       garments the financial rate of return is 31%)


COMPONENT A: SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SUBCOMPONENT: PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT (Agricultural and Agro-forestry Production System;
Mini-Irrigation; Social Reforestation)


Indicator                                            Projected in SAR/PAD                           Actual/Latest Estimate
a. Degree of Adoption of production systems.         Indicative: 1,100 productive projects; and     1,334 subprojects total, based on demand-driven
                                                     4,000 wood product plantations subject to      CAPs. Of which, 163 were productive
                                                     actual priorities defined in the demand-driven subprojects; 80 small farms, and 84
                                                     Community Action Plans (CAPs)                  environmental subprojects (of which 30 in
                                                                                                    agro-forestry and 67 productive subprojects)
b. Adoption rate of key technologies.                                                               100% in actual subprojects
c. Land covered and farms adopting systems and/or                                                   163 income-generating subprojects; 80
key technologies.                                                                                   productive farms; 30 agro-forestry; total number
                                                                                                    of hectares not available.
d. Production per farm/systems and economic          20 Sustainable small farms with new            163 income-generating subprojects and 83
results for beneficiaries (SDC, independent          technologies benefiting at least 50% of        sustainable small farms, 26 community
producers or other type of beneficiaries).           producers                                      didactive farms. New technologies benefiting at
                                                                                                    least 50% of producers
e. Production increases per farm.                                            -                     Though increases are significant in most of



                                                                        - 22 -

                                                                                     them; there is no baseline to compare
f. Investments carried out at the farm level.                             -          US$3.1 million in productive subprojects, while
                                                                                     investment in agro-forestry and tree nursing was
                                                                                     US$0.6 million
g. Number of participant beneficiaries.                                   -          Productive systems: 18,626 beneficiaries.
                                                                                     Reforestation: 3,866 beneficiaries
h. Number of beneficiaries per production and/or                          -           MIDA's report estimates that the project as a
technology system.                                                                    whole, has benefited more than 296,434 people.


COMPONENT A: SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SUBCOMPONENT: PRODUCTION SUPPORT (Marketing; Agro-industries; Feeder Roads)


Indicator                                           Projected in SAR/PAD              Actual/Latest Estimate
a. Number of commercial and agro-industrial         2,000 small subprojects           1,250 non-commercial nor agro-industrial
projects implemented by beneficiaries supported     Population project area:          Subprojects.
by the RPNR Project.                                75,000 inhabitants                163 Income-generating.
                                                                                      Beneficiaries: 296, 434
b. Adoption degree of technical recommendations in                        -          Demand-driven CAPs did not prioritized
commercialization and agro-industry.                                                 agroindustry subprojects; only 6 subproject of
                                                                                     this type were built
c. Number of beneficiaries (SDCs, independent                                         N.A.
producers or other type of beneficiaries) who
commercialize or have developed agro-industrial
projects.
d. Number of small enterprises.                                                       6 small activities
e. Increase in the volume of agro-transformed at the                                  N.A.
farm level.
f. Number of participant beneficiaries.                                               Communities 720
                                                                                      Beneficiaries 82,972
g. Kilometers rehabilitated.                        400 Km                            242 subprojects in rural road rehabilitation and
                                                                                      bridges covered 605 Km.
h. Communities and producers benefited.                                               MIDA's report estimates that the project. as a
                                                                                      whole, has benefited more than 296, 434 people.
i. Increase in transported production.                                               No baseline was required
j. Reduction of transport costs.                                                      No baseline was required
k. Irrigated area.                                  50 Community irrigations          181 water supply subprojects for human
                                                    100 Small irrigations.            consumption were built. Though specific
                                                                                      irrigation subprojects were not a priority, 31.5
                                                                                      ha were irrigated


COMPONENT A: SUSTAINABLE RURAL DEVELOPMENT
FUND FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT (FUSARD)


Indicator                                           Projected in SAR/PAD              Actual/Latest Estimate
a. Grant or credit beneficiaries.                                                     305,476 total beneficiaries
b. Grant or credit women beneficiaries.                                               305,476 total beneficiaries of which about 35%
                                                                                      are women
c. Sub-projects financed or donated in agricultural                                   31.5 ha of irrigation.
production systems, small irrigation works and
social reforestation; area covered.
d. Sub-projects financed or donated in                                                6 commercial agro-industrial subprojects.
commercialization, agro-industry and communal
infrastructure.
f. Payment delay situations                                                           Credit was not requested; only matching grants
                                                                                      were given
g. Payment delay causes.                                                              No credit was given
h. Revolving funds operating.                                                         None


COMPONENT B: PROTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT
SUBCOMPONENTS: (i) Strengthening of the National Protected Area System (NAPAS); (ii) Strengthening of Priority Protected Areas
(PAs); (iii) Buffer Zone Development; (iv) Ecotourism.


Indicator                                           Projected in SAR/PAD              Actual/Latest Estimate
a. Kms of PA boundaries, which are clearly and                                        53.7 km in el Montuoso Forest Reserve,
properly demarcated.                                                                  transferred to PRONAT




                                                                     - 23 -

 b. Mitigation of degradation effects in protected                Exec decree No. 210 of Sept. 20th 2000, forest
 areas.                                                           fire prevention & water monitoring,
                                                                  strengthening of PAs
 c. Recommendations on the conservation of                        2 SDCs were organized and 84 subprojects were
 protected areas included and executed in individual              executed.
 production plans.                                                4,500 Beneficiaries
 d. Increases in soil surface with conservation and               Soil conservation measures for 12% of 650,000
 recovery measures.                                               ha
 e. Increases in soil fertility, improved and                     N.A.
 recovered.
 f. Number of ecotourism projects implemented by                  1 tourist center was built
 beneficiaries (SDC, independent producers or other
 type of beneficiaries) supported by the RPNR
 Project.
 g. Adoption rate of technical recommendations on                 9 Ecotourism subprojects have been financed by
 ecotourism.                                                      the Atlantic Biological Corridor Project, which
                                                                  has benefited 15,940 people.
 h. Number of small ecotouristic enterprises in                   1 tourist Center was built in RVS Isla Iguana by
 operation.                                                       the Project. Also see above.


 End of Outcome/Impact Indicators

Output Indicators:




PA RPNR ICR Output Indicators.doc




                                                        - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                                                    Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                            Component                               US$ million  US$ million

1. Sustainable Rural Development
   1.1 Institutional and Community Training, Organization              7.9          11.6           14%
and Planning
    1.2 Fund for Sustainable Agricultural and Rural Development       15.7          15.4           98%
                                                           Subtotal   23.6           27            114%
2. Biodiversity Conservation
    2.1 Pacific Zone Protected Area Management                         0.9           2.0           250%
    2.2 Atlantic Biological Corridor                                  10.8          10.8           100%
                                                           Subtotal   11.7          12.8           109%
3. Project Coordinating Unit                                           3.7           1.2           35%

                                                Total Project Costs   39.0          41.0           105%

                          Total Financing Required                    39.0           41.0          105%




                                                         Procurement Method1
      Expenditure Category                 ICB              NCB          Other2         N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Works                                   0.00              1.00          0.30          0.00        1.30
                                           (0.00)           (0.20)        (0.10)        (0.00)      (0.30)
2. Equipment                                0.90             0.50          0.40          0.00        1.90
                                           (0.30)           (0.20)        (0.10)        (0.00)      (0.60)
2. Vehicles                                 0.00             0.00          1.40          0.00        1.40
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.90)        (0.00)      (0.90)
3. Consultant Services                      0.00             0.00          11.10         0.00       11.10
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)        (5.10)        (0.00)      (5.10)
4. Training                                 0.00             0.00          1.90          0.00        1.90
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.30)        (0.00)      (1.30)
5. Rural Development and                    0.00             0.00          15.20         0.00       15.20
Biodiversity Subproject                    (0.00)           (0.00)       (11.10)        (0.00)     (11.10)
6. Recurrent Costs                          0.00             0.00          3.20          1.90       05.10
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)        (2.00)        (0.00)      (2.00)
7. Project Preparation Facility             0.00             0.00          1.20          0.00        1.20
                                           (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.20)        (0.00)      (1.20)
   Total                                    0.90             1.50          34.70        21.90       39.00
                                          (0.30)            (0.40)       (21.80)        (0.00)      (22.50)



                                                                              1
                                                       Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                 ICB
                                                            NCB                2                Total Cost
                                                                         Other        N.B.F.

1. Works                                    0.00           119,102      162,482         0.00       0.00



                                                     - 25 -

                                             (0.00)            (95,282)         (132,386)           (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                                    0.36               470,007           655,554             0.00           0.58
                                            (0.36)            (470,007)         (534,963)           (0.00)      (0.4
                                                                                                                 7)

3. Services                                 0.00                 0.00          6,767,946             0.00       14.1
                                                                                                                 4
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)        (6,767,946)           (0.00)      (1.5
                                                                                                                 7)

4. Training                                 0.00                 0.00            555,911             0.00       0.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)          (555,911)           (0.00)      (0.0
                                                                                                                 0)

5. Operating cost                           0.00                 0.00          5,255,633             0.00       0.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)          (944,825)           (0.00)      (0.0
                                                                                                                 0)

6. Auditoria                                0.00                 0.00             57,572             0.00       0.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)           (57,572)           (0.00)      (0.0
                                                                                                                 0)
7. Subproyectos                             0.00                 0.00          15,357,362            0.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)        (11,656,377)          (0.00)      0.00
8. PPF-306                                                                                                      (0.0
                                            0.00                 0.00            765,794             0.00        0)
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)          (765,794)           (0.00)
                                                                                                                0.00
                                                                                                               (0.00
                                                                                                                  )

Total                                       0.00               589,109        29,578,254             0.00       0.00
                                            (0.00)            (565,288)       (21,415,774)          (0.00)      (0.0
                                                                                                                 0)




1/
       Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/
       Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate               Percentage of
                                                                                                                 Appraisal

                                Bank        Govt.         CoF.         Bank         Govt.        CoF.     Bank     Govt.  CoF.
1. Sustainable Rural
Development (a)



                                                       - 26 -

1.1 Institutional and         5.6    2.3     0.0    7.5    4.0     0    134% 174%
Community Training,
Organization and Planning
1.2 Fund for Sustainable      11.6   0.8     3.4    11.7          3.7   100%      109%
Agricultural and Rural
Development
Subtotal                      17.2   3.1     3.4    19.2   4.0    3.7   112% 129%
2. Biodiversity Conservation
2.1 Pacific Zone Protected    0.7    0.2     0.0    1.7    0.4          243% 200%
Area Management
2.2 Atlantic Biological       1.8    0.6     8.3     0     0.6    8.3        100% 100%
Corridor
Subtotal                      2.5    0.8     8.3    1.7    1.0    8.3   68%  125% 100%
3. Project Coordinating Unit  2.9    0.6     0.2    1.1    .09          38%  15%
TOTAL COSTS                   22.5   4.5    11.9    22.0   4.89   12.0  98%  109% 101%




                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic rate of return: the largest component of the project is the demand driven fund, which was
expected to benefit 1,100 families. This component actually benefited 95,224 rural dwellers (about 19,000
families) living in the poorest Corregimientos of Panama. It was not possible to determine ahead of time the
type and quantity of subprojects, their cost and community counterparts. However, the participatory
diagnostic carried out during project preparation gave an idea of the sorts of productive investments the
communities were most interested in. Financial analysis was carried out for 12 probable
revenue-generating types of investments (timber seed processing, nurseries, lumber, coffee, fruit plantation
and processing, cheese, and others) the results indicated positive rates of return that fluctuated between 13
and 24 percent. The results of this work are provided at the end of this annex. Actual results from
productive projects indicate a wide variance. Some of the sustainable farms sampled had an economic rate
of return of 42%, while some production modules for example had an ERR of approximately negative 2%.
This mixed results may be indicative not only of differences in profitability of various investment, but also
for those cases with similar productive activities, it may be due to broad differences in actual productive
(and marketing) capacity of community member, as well as the quality of the technical assistance being
provided. It should be noted that in some cases the community co-financed with up to 40% of the total
investment. In balance, the ERRs on average were somewhat similar to those estimated for productive
projects. However, since most of the resources actually were demanded for productive economic and social
infrastructure, there are not ERRs computed for the physical and social infrastructure. Nevertheless, there
is no reason to expected that the ERRs for these subprojects might have been any different from their
typical rates of return, which are generally high, in particular for rural road rehabilitation, schools and
latrines.

The appraisal (SAR) also provided economic and financial analysis for the Biodiversity Conservation
component. The SAR estimated that the environmental benefits alone would be considerable taking into
account that the project would benefit 913,000 ha, which corresponds to 52% of the National Protected
Areas (NAPAS) and 12% of the national territory. The biodiversity in these areas is of national, regional
and global importance. Though, it was acknowledge that it is difficult to quantify the various
environmental benefits, for illustrative purposes specific calculations were made for soil conservation and
mangroves. The Sustainable Development area contains approximately 650,000 ha of land under
agricultural activity. A conservative calculation estimated that the project would improve soil conservation
measures in about 12 percent of the area. Taking a weighted average of the soil loses that can realistically
be expected under the typical land uses, the project, was argued, could reduce loses by 62 percent,
equivalent to 2.4 million tons of non-sustainable soil losses/year, which is valued annually at approximately
$220,000 or a net present value of $1.6 million over 20 years.

The Sustainable Development component area on the pacific is upriver from the largest mangroves in
Panama at Golfo de Montijo and Golfo de Parrita. The SAR estimated that soil conservation and
reforestation, which would reduced the level of contamination and sedimentation carried by the rivers,
would protect 20% of the mangrove's area (about 7,000 ha) that would otherwise disappear, and using a
low value estimate, the 20 year NPV would equal $11.4 million. It is expected that the investments in the
Pacific contributed to some demographic stabilization in this area in activities that indirectly and directly
contributed to soil conservation and non-deforestation, which may have contributed to capture some of the
benefits discussed in the SAR. However, in this case, it also has to be discounted for the negative effects of
the continuous annual lose in primary and secondary forest. However, no quantification of these two effects
has been made.




                                                      - 28 -

EVALUACION ECONOMICA ICR PA RPNR.doc




                                     - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/13/94                  1    Natural Resources Specialist
              02/02/95                  2    Natural Resources
                                             Specialists/Consultants
              04/26/95                  1    Natural Resources Specialist
              05/27/95                  1    Natural Resources Specialist
              11/17/95                  1    Natural Resources Specialist
              02/15/96                  2    Natural Resources
                                             Specialists/Consultants
              03/10/96                  4    Task Manager
                                             Natural Resources Specialist
                                             Environmental Specialist
                                             Project Assistant
              06/10/96                  3    Task Manager
                                             Environmental Economist
                                             Procurement Assistant
              08/20/96                  3    Task Manager
                                             Environmental Economist
                                             Procurement Assistant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/10/96                  3    Task Manager
                                              Biodiversity Specialist,
                                             Social Specialist
              12/12/96                  2    Task Manager, Agriculturalist
              01/20/97                  1    Biodiversity Specialist
              03/18/97                  6    Task Manager
                                             Lawyer
                                             Disbursement Officer
                                             Environmental Specialist
                                             Agricultural Economist
                                             Loan Officer

 Supervision

              11/13/1997                5    SECTOR LEADER (1); RURAL           U               S
                                             DEV. EXPERT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              06/26/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                  S               S
                                             INSITUTIONAL DEV. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT AND
                                             DISBUR (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             (1)
              10/21/1998                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                  S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL


                                              - 30 -

                             ECONOMIS (1);
                             PROCUREMENT (1); PROJECT
                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                             (1)
            03/09/1999    6  TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                             AGRICULTURAL
                             ECONOMIST (1);
                             PROCUREMENT (1); PROJECT
                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                             ECONOMIS (1); FINANCIAL
                             MANAGEMENT (1)
            10/21/1999    4  TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM        S    S
                             ASSISTANT (1); PROJECT
                             MONITORING (1);
                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
            03/29/2000    1  TASK MANAGER (1)             S    S
            04/01/2001    2  TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                             PROCUREMENT (1)
            06/23/2001    4  TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                             ENGINEER (1);
                             PARTICIPATION (1);
                             COMMUNICATIONS (1)
            06/23/2001    3  TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                             (1); ENGINEER (1)
            2/14/2002     2  TASK MANAGER (2)             S    S
            05/31/2002    8  TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                             CONSULTANT (6); PROJECT
                             ASSISTANT (1)
            01/12/2003    12 TTL (1); NRM/MUNICIPAL
                             ENV (1); INST. SPECIALIST
                             (1); NRM (2); SOCIAL (1);
                             COMMUNICATIONS (2); FMS
                             (1); FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
                             (1); MUNICIPAL SPEC. (1);
                             OPERATIONS (1)
            06/19/2003    1  TASK MANAGER                 U    S
            12/8/2003     1  TASK MANAGER                 S    S


 ICR
            06/25/2004    4  TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);      S    S
                             AG ECONOMIST (1);
                             INSITUTIONAL
                             SPECIALIST (1)




(b) Staff:




                             - 31 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              33                          78.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   39                        109.9
Supervision                           107                         288.7
ICR                                      5                          13.5
Total                                 184                         490.3




                                         - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      The World Bank, SAR, Rural poverty and Natural Resources Project, April 14,1997. Report No.
16090-PA.
2.      Republica de Panamá, MIDA, "Informe de Evaluación Final del Proyecto. (Préstamo IBRD 41580
­ PA). Agosto de 2004.
3.      Republica de Panamá, ANAM, Informe Final de la Ejecución Técnica y Financiera de las
Actividades Propuestas por el Componente B Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica del PPRRN. Junio
2004.
4.      World Bank Aid Memoirs Supervision Missions and Project Status Reports.
5.      World Bank, Mid-term Evaluation Reports, November 2000 and January 2003.
6.      Panamá, "Does Community Participation Improve Project Outcomes, Direct Investment, Cost, and
Project Sustainability? Experiences of Panama Small Rural Investments". December 17, 2003.
7.      Republica de Panamá, MIDA-ANAM, "La Experiencia del Proyecto Pobreza Rural y Recursos
Naturales" Panamá 1998-2002. Santiago de Veraguas 2003.
8.      The World Bank. (Draft) `Panama: Second Rural Poverty and Natural Resources" (undated).
9.      The World Bank, PRPNR Legal Agreement.
Republica de Panamá, "Informe Final: Proyecto de Pobreza Rural y Recursos Naturales (Documento
Principal). Panamá, 20 de Julio de 1966.




                                                - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Implementation Completion Report Summary




                         REPÚBLICA DE PANAMÁ




                                       - 36 -

        PROYECTO:
     "POBREZA RURAL Y
   RECURSOS NATURALES"
       -.- PPRRN -.-



INFORME DE         EVALUACIÓN
     DEL     PROYECTO
(Préstamo IBRD 4158 / PAN)




 Informe de Evaluación Final




            Panamá,
        Noviembre - 2004




             - 37 -

                                              INDICE




I.     RESUMEN EJECUTIVO                                                               1
II.    INTRODUCCION                                                                    3
 III. JUSTIFICACIÓN DEL PROYECTO                                                       3
 IV. METODOLOGÍA DE LA EVALUACIÓN                                                      4
 V.    OBJETIVOS, DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION                                              5
 VI. RESULTADOS CUANTITATIVOS Y CUALITATIVOS                                           5
     VII.   FACTORES EXTERNOS QUE AFECTARON LA                                         7
           IMPLEMENTACION
 VIII. EL PAPEL DEL BANCO MUNDIAL                                                      8
 IX. PAPEL DEL PRESTATARIO                                                             8
 X.    ASPECTOS DE EQUIDAD DE GENERO E INDÍGENAS
     XI .   LOGROS MAS SIGNIFICATIVOS                                                  9
 XI. CONCLUSIONES FINALES                                                              10
XII.   RECOMENDACIONES                                                                 10
 I. RESUMEN EJECUTIVO

 Panamá, con una superficie terrestre de 75517 km² y 2.8 millones de personas, no es en
 esencia un país agropecuario, aunque el 38% de su población vive en áreas rurales, las
 cuales albergan el 64% de la población pobre del país. De acuerdo con el Informe de
 Desarrollo Humano del 2002, se estima que 40.5% de la población panameña vive en
 pobreza y 26.5% en pobreza extrema. Esta situación, expuesta geográficamente, implica
 que de los 68 distritos que conforman el país, 42 se ubican como pobres y donde el 40%
 más pobre recibe solo el 8% de la riqueza nacional. Así; para el sector rural se evidencien
 tres grandes problemas: i) Bajo crecimiento del sector agropecuario como principal
 actividad económica de las áreas rurales; ii) Alto ritmo de deterioro de los recursos
 naturales y del ambiente; iii) Deterioro del nivel de vida de la población campesina rural e
 indígena.

 Lo anterior determinó que, en junio de 1997, el Gobierno de Panamá, a través del Ministerio
 de Desarrollo Agropecuario (MIDA) y la Autoridad Nacional del Ambiente (ANAM), iniciara la
 puesta en marcha del Proyecto Pobreza Rural y Recursos Naturales (PPRRN),
 co-financiado por el Banco Internacional para la Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF),
 conocido como Banco Mundial (BM). Esta acción del Gobierno de Panamá estuvo dirigida a
 desarrollar y ejecutar mecanismos para promover el desarrollo rural en beneficio de las
 comunidades más pobres, que permitieran mejorar la calidad de vida de la población rural,
 con acciones, por un lado, de carácter social y, por el otro, con programas de desarrollo
 rural, promoviéndose, paralelamente, una cultura hacia la conservación y el manejo
 sostenible de los recursos naturales.



                                              - 38 -

El PPRRN tuvo una ejecución de seis años, finalizando en junio 2004, luego de dos
extensiones que se dieron a partir de junio del 2002. El Documento de Proyecto o Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), describe los objetivos, metas e indicadores de impacto del PPRRN.
El Proyecto tiene dos componentes principales: el de Desarrollo Rural Sostenible (DRS),
ejecutado por el MIDA, y el de Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica, ejecutado por la
ANAM.

Con respecto al Componente de DRS, éste contó con el apoyo de las Organizaciones No
Gubernamentales (ONG´s) y fue ejecutado en dos etapas sucesivas: la primera comprendía
la capacitación y la asistencia para la organización de las comunidades beneficiarias en
Comités de Desarrollo Sostenible (CDS´s), con el objetivo de fortalecer sus capacidades
de autogestión y descentralización en cuanto a la identificación, formulación y ejecución de
los subproyectos productivos y sociales específicos, a través de los Planes de Acción
Comunal (PAC´s). Estos Planes de Acción permitieron:

·    Vincular las estrategias locales con las necesidades prácticas
·    Intervención de los actores clave en los diferentes procesos, así como sus
responsabilidades y la identificación de los mecanismos de coordinación y control que se
necesitaron en la implementación.
·    Lograr la participación equitativa de todos los grupos sociales y culturales del área, con
equidad de género, en todas las actividades del Proyecto, principalmente en la
implementación de la organización comunitaria, capacitación de los actores y priorización
de los subproyectos, principalmente productivo.
·    Lograr la articulación y complementariedad de acciones con otros programas y
proyectos públicos y privados mediante la canalización de las demandas comunitarias que
no estuvieran dentro del área de atención del PPRRN.

La segunda etapa de ejecución del Componente DRS comprendió la asistencia técnica y el
financiamiento, a través del Fondo Agrícola para el Desarrollo Rural Sostenible (FADERS),
de los proyectos priorizados en los PAC´s.

La UEP/DRS se estructuró en tres subcomponentes: (i) Organización y Capacitación Rural,
que fortaleció la autogestión comunitaria, constituyendo un proceso clave para el éxito del
Proyecto; (ii)Validación e Innovación de Aspectos Tecnológico-Productivos, que facilitó
procesos y/o opciones tecnológicas para pequeñas familias y, (iii) Servicios de Apoyo a la
Producción, para reforzar la base productiva mediante una mayor participación del
productor en el mercado, en el procesamiento de productos y el mejoramiento de
infraestructura productiva. El FADERS, si bien no estuvo estructurado como un
componente, en la práctica así fue, siendo operativizado en función de la demanda de las
comunidades, luego de un proceso de Planificación Estratégica Participativo (PEP) por
corregimiento. Dichos subproyectos serían canalizados por la UEP/DRS, a través de los
fondos no reembolsables. Contempló, además, subproyectos productivos comunitarios.
Adicionalmente, los CDS´s promovieron obtención de aportes de otras fuentes. El fondo
reembolsable del FADERS no se operativizó, las razones fueron diversas, principalmente
producto de escepticismo en el manejo y reembolso del capital semilla. El BM en gran
medida apoyo ésta decisión.

Las acciones del Componente de Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica estuvieron



                                            - 39 -

centradas en aplicar, sobre una base piloto, metodologías que canalizaran recursos
financieros a comunidades rurales para apoyarles en la generación de sistemas productivos
sostenibles y, de ésta forma, reducir la pobreza rural, el deterioro de los recursos naturales
y la migración, promoviendo el uso sostenible y la conservación de las áreas protegidas.
Este objetivo se llevó a cabo mediante la ejecución de los siguientes subcomponentes: (i)
Modernización del Sistema Nacional de Áreas Protegidas (SINAP); (ii) Fortalecimiento de
las áreas protegidas; (iii) Reducción de la presión sobre las áreas protegidas; (iv) Desarrollo
de ecoturismo; y (v) Subproyectos.

El área de acción del PPRRN correspondió a 73 corregimientos de 14 distritos pobres de
Veraguas (11), Herrera (11) y Los Santos (10). No obstante, para el caso del Componente
de Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica, las acciones estaban dirigidas a aquellas
comunidades ubicadas aledañas y dentro de las áreas protegidas en éstas provincias,
como son: Parque Nacional Cerro Hoya, Reserva Forestal el Montuoso, Refugio de Vida
Silvestre Isla Iguana, Reserva Forestal La Tronosa y Refugio de Vida Silvestre Isla Caña.
También se incluyen las comunidades aledañas al Refugio de Vida Silvestre Taboga y
Urabá, en la provincia de Panamá.

Los resultados de la evaluación indican una ejecución satisfactoria, en el cumplimiento de
los objetivos de desarrollo y el alcance de las metas operacionales, aunque se dieron
limitaciones, que se reflejaron en algunos de los resultados de la implementación. Entre las
limitaciones está el aspecto de los indicadores que se establecieron inicialmente en el SAR,
los cuales no contaban con una línea base que permitiera medir los cambios, a partir de la
implementación del PPRRN. Esto hizo necesario, en el caso del Componente A, de una
reprogramación, sin que se perdiera la búsqueda de los objetivos. Pese a esta situación,
destacamos los principales logros: (i) aumento de las capacidades organizativas de los
CDS´s, integrando y comprometiendo a las instituciones ejecutoras y otros actores clave,
potencializado así un cambio de actitud y, obteniendo también, un sentido de apropiación
de las iniciativas, haciendo énfasis en el surgimiento de las redes de colaboración. Lo
anterior significa que se logrado un cambio fundamental en el área de acción del Proyecto,
expresado en su Capital Social, siendo este el logro más importante del PPRRN.
II. INTRODUCCIÓN

El PPRRN se ejecuta en las comunidades rurales de los corregimientos con el mayor índice
de pobreza, principalmente en las provincias de Herrera, Veraguas y Los Santos, su costo
ascendió a $ 39.0 millones, de los cuales $ 22.5 millones son financiados por el BM, más
una donación de $ 8.0 millones del Fondo Mundial del Ambiente (GEF), $ 4.5 millones
como aporte del Gobierno y $ 4.0 millones como aporte de las comunidades.

El Proyecto, diseñado bajo los lineamientos del MIDA y la ANAM, establecidos en el
documento de préstamo: IBRD 41580 - PA, se integra a las estrategias sectoriales e
institucionales del Plan de Gobierno que permitían la consolidación y fortalecimiento de la
sociedad rural panameña. El documento del Proyecto señala entre las metas de la
implementación la mejora de las condiciones de vida de casi 75,000 personas pobres y
marginadas, a través de inversiones en subproyectos priorizados por los miembros de las
comunidades, así como la realización de procesos de organización y capacitación, con el
fin de fortalecer las redes de colaboración, a partir de la participación de los actores locales
en la solución de sus problemas.

En el marco del convenio de préstamo entre el Gobierno de Panamá y el BM, es necesario


                                            - 40 -

realizar una evaluación de efectos e impactos de la implementación del Proyecto. Para tal
efecto, el PPRRN ha realizado la evaluación de sus componentes en forma separada.

Para los resultados de esta evaluación se tuvieron en cuenta, en primer lugar el contexto en
que se ejecutó el PPRRN, para luego realizar una explicación de cada uno de los
propósitos y metodologías emprendidas. En otro aspecto, se realiza una síntesis del diseño
e implementación de cada uno de los componentes y finalmente, se exponen resultados
alcanzados, los cuales permiten identificar conclusiones y recomendaciones.

III. JUSTIFICACIÓN DEL PROYECTO

La visión del Proyecto se fundamenta en la interrelación de dos procesos críticos para la
economía y la sociedad panameña: el empobrecimiento de la población rural y el deterioro
del medio ambiente, así como la necesidad de lograr un desarrollo sostenible. Esto se
lograría a través de una serie de actividades económicas, agrícolas y no agrícolas, con una
participación en los mercados internos, buscando la sostenibilidad y la interacción
apropiada con los recursos naturales existentes en estas zonas.

3.1. Alcance:

El PPRRN es un Proyecto "piloto" que promovió el auto desarrollo sostenible de las
comunidades pobres en la región central del país, a través de las siguientes acciones:

·     Aplicación de metodologías sencillas que permitan canalizar recursos hacia las
comunidades rurales.
·     Asistencia en la promoción de sistemas productivas sustentables, que conlleven a
reducir la pobreza rural, disminuir la degradación de los recursos naturales y evitar la
migración de la población hacia los centros urbanos.
·     Fomento del uso sostenible de los recursos agua y suelo, así como la conservación de
la diversidad biológica en las áreas de impacto del Proyecto.
·     Especial énfasis en el apoyo de las comunidades indígenas involucradas.
·     Equidad de género en las actividades del Proyecto.
·     Contratación de Organizaciones No gubernamentales (ONG's) para desarrollar
servicios de acompañamiento en los corregimientos de cobertura (auto y cogestionarias).

En este marco, el Proyecto estableció su enfoque de: Cobertura, Desarrollo
Económico-Productivo y Aspectos Rurales, enmarcados dentro de estrategias de desarrollo
nacional, en interrelación con las estrategias locales, ejecutándose éstos en atención a las
necesidades de los contextos territoriales.

3.2. Actores Clave

El Proyecto identificó 72 aliados tanto gubernamentales como no gubernamentales y de la
sociedad civil, los cuales se clasificaron en cinco grupos:

·     Instituciones Ejecutoras: El MIDA y la ANAM, cuyo rol es servir de instancia normadora
y coordinadora de las directrices de la política gubernamental, con la correspondiente
asistencia técnica;
·     Instituciones Aliadas: Tienen el propósito de optimizar los recursos y acciones hacia las



                                            - 41 -

comunidades beneficiarias del Proyecto;
·    Autoridades Locales: Su participación conlleva a mejorar los mecanismos de gestión y
aprobación de acciones en las comunidades, expresadas en los diferentes mecanismos de
gobierno local;
·    Sociedad Civil: Su participación se dio a través de contratación de ONG´s para realizar
los procesos auto y cogestionarios con los CDS´s; y
·    Comités de Desarrollo Sostenibles: Los CDS se han constituido en los líderes en
planificación estratégica para atender las demandas de las comunidades, siendo el
resultado y el instrumento más importante de las acciones desarrolladas por el Proyecto, lo
que constituye una parte importante del Capital Social desarrollado; o sea, constituyen,
simultáneamente, la causa y efecto del PPRRN para la realización de los subproyectos
(capital físico).

IV. METODOLOGÍA DE LA EVALUACION

En el caso del componente de DRS, el objetivo de la evaluación fue medir los resultados e
impacto que ha generado el Proyecto durante su ejecución, con respecto a sus metas
generales, mencionadas en el Plan Indicativo General (PIG) y por ende en el SAR. La
evaluación se sustentó en mecanismos de control, tales como: Indicadores del SAR,
percepción de Actores Clave, Revisión de POA´s y los reportes de misión del BM, dado que
todos en conjunto han incidido en la determinación de los resultados cualitativos y
cuantitativos.

Las características del proceso metodológico utilizado para la evaluación del Componente
de DRS fueron:

·    Valorar basándose en los objetivos e indicadores propuestos en el SAR: Se priorizaron
los indicadores que a juicio del equipo técnico pudieran haber tenido importancia en función
de la acción desarrollada.
·    Determinar la calificación de objetivos y resultados de las Metas Operativas, tomando
como indicativo el marco estratégico y las actividades principales, así como las metas
contempladas en el PIG. Igualmente, el taller de visión estratégica de percepciones.
·    Considerar todos los procesos de monitoreo y evaluación
efectuados durante su ejecución por parte del MIDA, a través de sus Planes
Operativos, Banco Mundial y otros actores clave (CDS´s, Instituciones aliadas, autoridades
locales, etc).

La escala de valoración fue: Muy Satisfactorio, Satisfactorio, Regular y Mal de satisfactorio.

En el caso del componente de Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica, la evaluación se
realizó a partir de la metodología que sugiere POARCA/CAPAS/AID, desarrollada por
Robles y Luna, utilizando en lo posible los indicadores del SAR, todo esto desde una
perspectiva cualitativa, con base a la información recopilada y, una validación realizada
mediante un taller desarrollado para tal fin, el cual contó con la participación de los actores
más importantes en la ejecución del componente de Conservación de la Diversidad
Biológica.:

Las escalas de medición establecidas fueron: Altamente Satisfactorio, Satisfactorio,
Moderadamente satisfactorio, Insatisfactorio y Altamente Insatisfactorio.



                                           - 42 -

V.   OBJETIVOS, DISEÑO E IMPLEMENTACION

Los objetivos según el SAR fueron: i) Aplicar, en forma "piloto", la metodología que
canalizaría los recursos financieros a las comunidades rurales para asistir en la promoción
sostenible de sistemas productivos, y así, reducir la pobreza rural, la degradación de los
recursos naturales y la migración, y, ii) Promover el uso sostenible y la conservación de
ciertas áreas elegidas, que son prioritarias por su diversidad biológica, haciendo énfasis en
los aspectos de equidad de género y de participación de todos los grupos culturales
asociados al Proyecto, entre ellos los indígenas.

Luego de la implementación del Proyecto, se alcanzaron los objetivos de desarrollo en
forma satisfactoria; sobre todo, el fortalecimiento de las capacidades de autogestión de las
comunidades, bajo el esquema de los CDS´s. Este mecanismo permitió que las
comunidades, a nivel de corregimiento, identificaran necesidades, definieran sus
prioridades, elaboraran propuestas, administraran los recursos asignados, todo enmarcado
en un proceso de planificación y acción participativa de las comunidades y los tomadores
de decisión.

El diseño del Proyecto se enfocó en dos ámbitos: i) los aspectos de la pobreza rural, y ii)
los recursos naturales. Los mismos fueron muy acertados en varios aspectos: a) Buscar la
coordinación y ejecución institucional e interinstitucional, a través del MIDA y ANAM; b)
Considerar los procesos de planificación, administración y evaluación comunitaria en forma
participativa y con responsabilidades compartidas; c) Promover las metodologías de
"Aprender a hacer"; d) Impulsar la organización comunitaria como un mecanismo de
consolidación de tareas y resultados; e) Impulsar un plan de capacitación de acuerdo a los
actores e identificación de necesidades; f) Impulsar acciones de autoestima, liderazgo y
sostenibilidad de los beneficiarios; g) Gestionar recursos de otras fuentes a través de las
organizaciones comunitarias; h) Impulsar las acciones de género en todas sus
manifestaciones; i) Impulsar la participación de las comunidades indígenas; k) Contratar los
servicios de acompañamiento auto y cogestionarios a través de la sociedad civil, como una
experiencia nueva de trabajo; i) Promover el estudio de casos como mecanismo de
aprendizaje, m) Incorporar a las instituciones ejecutoras y aliadas en el proceso de
asistencia técnica, n) y; Plantear propuestas tecnológicas agropecuarias en forma sencilla y
apropiada al potencial de la gente marginada, entre otras.

VI. RESULTADOS CUANTITATIVOS Y CUALITATIVOS

El impacto más evidente del Proyecto ha sido la formación de Capital Social, evidenciado
en los CDS promovidos por el componente de DRS. Durante su ejecución se conformaron
75 CDS´s, que atendieron 556 comunidades. Estos cuentan con 8496 miembros
formalmente registrados (35% mujeres) y 10 CDS, con 640 miembros formales, que
funcionan en áreas indígenas. La participación de mujeres y jóvenes está en el orden del
25% y 30%,      respectivamente. Las relaciones con instituciones gubernamentales y la
sociedad civil mejoró significativamente, lo que generó un clima de confianza y cooperación
de estos sectores.

En su totalidad, a través de la implementación de ambos componentes, se financiaron
1,334 subproyectos por un monto total de US$ 15.4 millones. Los subproyectos aprobados
respondían a las demandas comunitarias, a través de un proceso de evaluación de


                                            - 43 -

necesidades y prorización de acciones, que posteriormente eran sometidas a la evaluación
y aprobación por parte del Comité de Evaluación y Aprobación del FADERS. Los
subproyectos aprobados fueron ejecutados por las propias comunidades, a través de los
CDS´s; organizados y capacitados por el Proyecto para ayudar a la ejecución y
administración de fondos. Para realizar esta labor, el PPRRN capacitó a los 75 CDS´s en
igual número de corregimientos.

En cuanto a la ejecución de los subproyectos del Componente de DRS, se aprobaron 1250
subproyectos por un monto de US$ 14.283 millones, de los cuales US$ 10.902 millones
son aporte del PPPRN, US$ 2.284 millones de aporte comunitario y US$ 1.096 millones de
otras fuentes, beneficiando a unas 296434 personas. Para el caso del Componente de
Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica se aprobaron 84 subproyectos, por un monto de
US$ 1,155 millones, de los cuales US$ 770 mil son aporte del PPRRN y US$ 384 millones
son aporte comunitario.

Es digno destacar el aporte comunitario en los subproyectos con cerca de 16% del monto
total y la gestión de recursos de otras fuentes (8%).          Otra acción relevante fue el
incremento del Capital Humano, a través de la capacitación (1983 eventos) que incluyó
unas 51 mil personas, principalmente a los miembros de los CDS. Así; el Componente de
DRS organizó 235 eventos de capacitación, en los cuales se capacitaron 10098 miembros
de comunidades, incluyendo 635 técnicos y autoridades locales (miembros de los CDS,
Alcaldes y Representantes de Corregimientos). Las ONG´s contratadas por el proyecto
prepararon 1569 eventos de capacitación, en los cuales participaron 30296 personas. El
FADERS financió 60 subproyectos de capacitación que prepararon a 8123 personas en
electrificación, pesca, agroindustria y viveros. El 39% de todas las personas que recibieron
capacitación fueron mujeres (16% indígenas).

Los CDS han fortalecido las inversiones locales, que incluyen inversiones con recursos que
fueron producto de la gestión a través otras fuentes de financiamiento, lo que representó el
24% del total. Estas gestiones son superiores a las expectativas planteadas en el
documento del Proyecto (21.5%) y se puede interpretar como un resultado muy bueno,
dada las características y nivel de los miembros de los CDS´s. En los subproyectos
clasificados como Productivos el apalancamiento financiero alcanzó el 39.6%, gracias a la
complementariedad con otros programas gubernamentales en la zona de intervención. Los
subproyectos de Infraestructura muestran aportes de la comunidad y otras fuentes
cercanas al 18.7% del total, y en las categorías de Fortalecimiento Financiero, Ambientales
y Capacitación los aportes externos al proyecto representan, respectivamente, el 33.6%,
31.9% y el 24.4% de las inversiones totales en cada caso.

Finalmente, en cuanto al Componente de DRS, los resultados de la evaluación de parte de
los diferentes actores clave fueron satisfactorios, sobre todo el reconocimiento por parte de
los miembros de la Federación de CDS´s.

Específicamente a través de la implementación del Componente de Conservación de la
Diversidad Biológica, se apoyó el desarrollo de acciones dirigidas a:

·    Modernización del Sistema Nacional de Áreas Protegidas (SINAP), mediante el
desarrollo de instrumentos para la planificación efectiva y eficaz de las áreas protegidas,
por ejemplo, el plan de manejo de la Reserva Forestal El Montuoso, actualización el marco



                                            - 44 -

regulatorio de la Ley 24 de 1995 de vida silvestre, fortalecimiento técnico del personal
involucrado en la gestión del SINAP y establecimiento de mecanismos de coordinación intra
e interinstitucional.
·    Fortalecimiento de áreas protegidas prioritarias, mediante la dotación de equipos de
movilización y oficina; mejoramiento de infraestructuras (construcción de refugios para
guardaparques -Isla Cañas-, mejoras a agencias de la ANAM -Las Minas e Isla Iguana- y la
construcción de la sede de regional de Veraguas); construcción de los centros de
educación ambiental de Flores (Veraguas) y Taboga (Panamá) y facilidades logísticas y
operativas para el manejo de las áreas protegidas prioritarias. Bajo este subcomponente se
inició el programa de monitoreo de calidad del agua en ríos de la región Pacífica.
·    Reducción de la presión sobre las áreas protegidas, a través de una mayor integración
de las comunidades en la conservación y manejo de éstas, mediante acciones de
organización comunitaria, capacitación y educación ambiental.
·    Ecoturismo, mediante el desarrollo de estudios de apoyo a la normativa legal para la
promoción de actividades de ecoturismo en las áreas protegidas de la Península de Azuero
e Isla Taboga, de bajo impacto ambiental, así como un reglamento de cconcesiones de
servicios públicos en áreas protegidas. El mecanismo de ejecución fue el financiamiento de
subproyectos comunitarios de ecoturismo.

La evaluación final del impacto del Componente B Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica
del PPRRN, se considera satisfactoria, lo que nos permite concluir que en la ejecución del
Componente B del PPRRN, por parte de la ANAM como institución responsable, se cumplió
con las expectativas que se establecieron en el diseño y ajustes realizados al Componente,
y al Proyecto, el cual respondió a los cambios que se dieron en las condiciones sociales y
políticas que incidieron en el desarrollo de sus actividades.

Transcurrida la vida del Proyecto, su ejecución financiera ha sido de US$ 19.43 millones,
o sea, el 97%, en cuanto al aporte externo que financia el BM, de la cual existe aún
US$ 629,626.00 como saldo (junio 2004). El componente de Conservación de la Diversidad
Biológica y los gastos incurridos en el PPF totalizan US$ 2.45 millones, los cuales fueron
ejecutados en su totalidad. El aporte local de contrapartida nacional, que fue de US$ 4.5
millones, fue ejecutado en un 100%.

VII. FACTORES EXTERNOS QUE AFECTARON LA IMPLEMENTACION

Para el caso del Componente de DRS, entre los factores            que incidieron en algunas
actividades durante la implementación estuvo algunas diferencias en las coordinaciones
entre los actores clave y el Proyecto, en gran medida por los muchos cambios del Recurso
Humano de la instancia ejecutora como de las instituciones aliadas, sobre todo a partir del
año 2000, lo que conllevó muchas veces a la falta de comprensión de la filosofía y
metodología de trabajo del PPRRN, así como la burocratización propia de todo proyecto
en ejecución, en cuanto a la toma y proceso de decisión durante el proceso de transición,
como fue el caso del dualismo que se generó en la administración del recurso humano
pagado por el Proyecto, pero asignado a las direcciones ejecutivas regionales del MIDA
Estas limitaciones que en el conjunto de la implementación no constituyen la mayoría,
fueron superadas por los actores involucrados, incidiendo en los logros de los objetivos
generales y en el cumplimiento de las tareas.

En el caso del componente de Conservación de la Diversidad Biológica, aunque hubo



                                           - 45 -

algunos factores externos que afectaron en parte la implementación, estos se vieron
superados, a través de una ejecución coordinada mediante la elaboración de planes
operativos    anuales,   los  cuales   contaban    con   la participación   directa  de   las
Administraciones, Direcciones y la Administración General de la ANAM, logrando un
consenso y coordinación efectiva para la ejecución de las actividades programadas.

VIII. PAPEL DEL BANCO MUNDIAL

El Banco Mundial tuvo un activo papel de supervisión, tanto en la evaluación final del
Proyecto como en la intermedia. Durante todo el proceso de seguimiento dado a través de
las misiones de supervisión del Banco Mundial, fue evidente, tal como consta en las ayudas
memorias de las misiones, la consideración de que el Proyecto se ejecutaba
satisfactoriamente. Igualmente, en la evaluación intermedia no se indicó o recomendó
adecuar o cambiar el diseño; lo que posteriormente conllevó a tener un proyecto que tuvo
limitaciones al no poder ser evaluado, según lo indicado en el SAR, pese a insistirse
durante su finalización en ello (indicadores). En cuanto a las recomendaciones de
adquisiciones, éstas fueron muy oportunas y significativas. La revisión financiera fue buena
y periódica. No hay la menor duda de que el BMl dio relevancia a este Proyecto y se lo hizo
saber al Gobierno Nacional.

IX. El PAPEL DEL PRESTATARIO

Este proyecto fue concebido en 1997 como parte de la estrategia del Gobierno Nacional,
constituyéndose un proyecto insignia en la región central del país,          sin embargo la
estructura existente en el grupo de trabajo para establecer las líneas directrices y de
gestión expresadas en el Comité Técnico Operativo no funcionó, lo que trajo como
resultado un alto grado de centralización por parte del Ministro del MIDA, el cual controlaba
las decisiones referidas a las partes A y C del Proyecto. A pesar de ello, la implementación
de este proyecto generó una serie de lecciones que es necesario considerarlas para
nuevos proyectos de desarrollo, como son:

·     Continuar considerando a los CDS´s como actores principal del Proyecto.
·     Establecer un Sistema de Seguimiento y Evaluación y su respectiva línea base desde
el inicio del Proyecto.
·     Continuar con el proceso metodológico de "aprender a hacer", como mecanismo de
gestión
·     Considerar el diseño técnico-económico y supervisión de los subproyectos sobre la
experiencia generada en la fase I.

X. ASPECTOS DE EQUIDAD DE GENERO E INDÍGENAS

Para el Proyecto, las actividades con equidad de género se constituyeron en un pilar de las
acciones que tenían que ser contempladas en los planes de trabajo, tanto del Proyecto
como de los CDS´s, y por ende, de las ONG´s. Tanto es así que se dieron un total de 210
eventos en diferentes temas afines, con actividades centradas en las mujeres, tales como:
capacitación, pasantías e intercambios de experiencias exitosas. En cuanto a la
participación de las mujeres en las Juntas Directivas de los CDS`s, está en el orden del
35%, siendo algunas de ellas Presidentas y Secretarias de las mismas. Otro hecho
interesante es su representación en las terceras firmas y subcomités de Subproyectos.



                                           - 46 -

En cuanto a los aspectos indígenas se trabajo en el 14% de los CDS´s atendidos, donde es
importante resaltar el empoderamiento de esta población con la implementación del
Proyecto, destacando como resultado tangible durante la vida del Proyecto, lo siguiente:
162 subproyectos por un monto de US$ 1,5 millones, de los cuales el FADERS ha
aportado: US$ 1,4 millones, la comunidad ha gestionado recursos de otras fuentes
(embajadas, instituciones, autoridades), monto por US$ 12,658 y la comunidad ha aportado
US$ 0.3 millones. El monto de los subproyectos indígenas representa unos 13% del total
de las inversiones comunitarias aprobadas por el PPRRN. Los eventos de capacitación
representan casi el 8%.

XI. LOGROS MÁS SIGNIFICATIVOS

Los resultados más evidentes e importantes de la ejecución del Proyecto son:

· El Proyecto ha inducido un cambio cultural evidente en las comunidades rurales en el
  área de acción a través de 75 CDS constituidos y sus correspondientes planes de acción
  de mediano y corto plazo.

· Las comunidades tuvieron la capacidad de organizarse. Identificar, planificar, preparar y
  gestionar proyectos de carácter comunitarios y productivos, con la participación de las
  mujeres e indígenas, tanto en su participación como dirección en los CDS´s.

· El 70% de los subproyectos ejecutados fueron de tipo de infraestructura, los cuales
  respondían a una demanda social no resuelta en el pasado y constituyeron la plataforma
  para el mejoramiento de la calidad de vida y generación de ingresos.

 · El manejo directo de los subproyectos por parte de los beneficiarios organizados en los
  CDS´s, logró que las comunidades rurales se sintieran ahora actores principales de su
  propio desarrollo, enfrentando sus responsabilidades y desafíos comunes.

· El Manejo de recursos naturales mediante la adopción de tecnologías apropiadas, donde
  más del 80% de todos los subproyectos financiados contienen algún componente
  agroforestal y todos involucraban actividades que incluían actividades dirigidas a reducir
  los impactos sobre el ambiente.

· Elaboración de un plan de educación ambiental con su respectivo plan piloto para la
  Región de Azuero e Isla Taboga, como un instrumento práctico para educar a distintos
  usuarios, ayudado a promover un cambio de actitud sobre el manejo ambiental.

 · Incremento del uso sostenible y conservación de las áreas Protegidas, mediante la
  elaboración de planes de manejo y las directrices técnicas para elaborar planes de
  manejo. Adicionalmente, se construyó infraestructura, se dotó de equipos y recursos
  logísticos y operativos para cumplir con las labores de protección, vigilancia y control que
  requiere el manejo de las áreas protegidas. Otro punto importante es que el proyecto
  ayudó a mejorar la cultura institucional de la ANAM en relación con los usuarios de los
  recursos naturales, logrando mayor colaboración de éstos en el manejo de los recursos.

XII. CONSIDERCIONES FINALES



                                           - 47 -

El PPRRN logró alcanzar sus objetivos globales de desarrollo, lo cual es evidente en los
resultados de la implementación del Proyecto, al punto que esta iniciativa ha sido muy bien
acogida por la comunidad y está siendo adoptada por otras instituciones gubernamentales,
lo que indica que su metodología e instrumentos de intervención son satisfactorios. Sin
embargo, es necesario el fortalecimiento de la capacidad técnica, principalmente, de los
funcionarios de campo, así como de las instituciones ejecutoras y acompañantes; además
de la clara definición de los roles de todos y cada uno de los diferentes actores del
Proyecto. Asimismo, hay que resaltar que los componentes en su diseño e implementación
estuvieron claramente orientados a los sectores más necesitados.

XIII. RECOMENDACIONES

Se recomienda que se lleve a cabo la segunda fase, sobre la base de los lineamientos
establecidos por el MIDA y la ANAM, mediante el desarrollo de mecanismos adecuados de
coordinación entre ambas instituciones.

El MIDA, como institución normadora y facilitadora de la política agropecuaria, recomienda
tomar en consideración para futuros proyectos de desarrollo rural i) Área de cobertura, ii)
Metodología, iii) Tipo de Organización, iv) Incorporación de las directrices de los Ejes
estratégicos del Plan Agropecuario en el documento que sustente un nuevo proyecto, sin
dejar de considerar la incorporación de la equidad de género y la participación activa y
directa de los indígenas. Todo bajo la metodología de aprender a hacer, basado en la
participación de los actores en la toma de decisión de lo que se quiere y puede hacer con
los recursos y potencialidades existentes en las áreas de cobertura.

Por su parte, la ANAM como organismo administrador de la política ambiental que debe
velar porque se cumpla con la política y las normas de manejo ambiental, recomienda tomar
en consideración: (i): Continuar trabajando en las mismas regiones donde se ejecutaron
ambos proyectos, para consolidar en el largo plazo los logros alcanzados por el PPRRN y
el CBMAP (ii) Ampliar los beneficios del Componente a otras zonas adyacentes a las
seleccionadas del PPRRN y el CBMAP, para integrar la gestión del proyecto en espacios
continuos; (iii) Incorporar a los gobiernos municipios y comarcales en la ejecución del
Componente, creando las condiciones necesarias para que el proceso de descentralización
de la gestión ambiental cuente con la participación activa de las autoridades municipales
(iv) Continuar fortaleciendo a las organizaciones locales para que el capital social creado
y/o fortalecido con el PPRRN y el CBMAP y las nuevas organizaciones que se fomenten
con el PPRRN-CBMAP II participen en igualdad de condiciones y capacidades en la
ejecución de las actividades del Proyecto; (v) Concienciar a los tomadores de decisiones al
más alto nivel     en la visión del CBM, mediante un amplio proceso de educación y
concienciación, de forma que las decisiones sobre inversiones regionales y nacionales
sean consecuentes con las normas de manejo ambiental y reducción de la pobreza que
promueve el proyecto.




                                           - 48 -

- 49 -

