Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. TF029204
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
(Natural Resources Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated June
29, 1995
TRUST FUND NO. TF029204
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting on its own behalf (the Bank) and as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds 
Page  2
provided by JAPAN
(Japan).
WHEREAS
(A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank and the International Development Association (the 
Association), and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be 
made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the 
Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter 
agreement;
WHEREAS
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule
1
to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
WHEREAS
(C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
WHEREAS
(D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the terms 
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows
:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section
1.01.
The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in the following 
areas:
(a)
natural resources management and conservation;
(b)
land use planning and management; and
(c)
agricultural technologies.
Section
1.02.
As used in this Agreement, the terms "
yen
"
and
"
¥
"
mean the currency of 
Japan, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well as any consulting firm 
that provides any of the experts referred to in Section
1.01.
Section
1.03.
The Consultants are expected to commence their services on March 1, 
1995
and to provide a total of 82 man-months of service between that time and December 31, 
1995.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Bank
and the Administrator
Section
2.01.
The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance shall be in 
Page  3
an amount of seventy-three million eight hundred thousand yen (
¥
73,800,000).
Section
2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses;
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by the 
Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services; and
(d)
computers and related office equipment.
Section
2.03.
The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of the 
Consultants.
Section
2.04.
The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants shall be 
the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank's applicable 
procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section
3.01.
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the Bank and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and effectively and, 
for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section
3.02.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's 
territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be provided with any necessary 
entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange documents and travel documents 
required for their stay in the Recipient's territories during the duration of the Technical 
Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and supplies 
required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the personnel of the 
Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the Technical 
Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's territories 
Page  4
reasonable amounts of foreign currency for their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants and such 
personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed under the laws and 
regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the Consultants and such personnel in 
respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out of the 
Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into such 
territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become the 
property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the Consultants or 
such personnel (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent 
residents of the Recipient's territories) or the dependents of such 
personnel for their personal use and which will be consumed therein or 
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them upon their respective 
departure from the Recipient's territories, provided that the Consultants, 
such personnel and their dependents shall follow the usual customs 
procedures of the Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's 
territories.
Section
3.03.
The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims arising out 
of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by third parties against the 
Administrator or the Bank. The Recipient shall indemnify the Administrator and the Bank 
against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or 
omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Bank, as the case may be.
Section
3.04.
For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the Recipient shall 
make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, facilities and equipment set 
forth in Schedule
2
to this Agreement.
Section
3.05.
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, such 
counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of the Bank and the 
Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. If any member of the counterpart 
personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him by the Consultants that is 
consistent with the position occupied by such member, the Consultants may request the 
replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such 
Page  5
request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section
4.01. The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on any reports 
prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations made in those 
reports.
Section
4.02. The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports prepared by the 
Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, as the case may be, may consider 
appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement between the 
Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section
5.01.
The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and the Recipient 
under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary. 
Neither the
Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled in any proceeding under this 
Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable 
because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Section
5.02.
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy
accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, power 
or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default. 
No action of
such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or 
impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section
5.03.
(a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, and any claim 
by any such party against any other such party arising under this Agreement which has not been 
settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as 
hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank and the Administrator on the 
one side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as follows: one 
arbitrator shall be appointed jointly by the Bank and the Administrator; a second arbitrator shall 
be appointed by the Recipient; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) 
shall be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the 
International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General 
of the United Nations. If either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be 
appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall 
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner 
Page  6
as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and such successor shall have 
all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section upon notice by 
the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such notice shall contain a statement 
setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration, the nature of 
the relief sought and the name of the arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such 
proceeding. Within thirty days after such notice, the other party shall notify to the party 
instituting the proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration proceeding, the 
parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may request the appointment of an 
Umpire as provided in paragraph
(c) of this Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall be fixed by 
the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where and when it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its competence and 
shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the parties shall otherwise agree, 
determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and shall render its 
award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An award signed by a majority of the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award 
shall be transmitted to each party. Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section shall be final and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party shall abide 
by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the arbitrators and such 
other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. If the parties 
shall not agree on such amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal 
shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank, the 
Administrator and the Recipient shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration 
proceedings. The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by 
the Bank and the Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other. Any question 
concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such 
costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(
j
)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu of any other 
procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to this Agreement or of any 
claim by any such party against any other such party arising thereunder.
(k)
The Bank shall not be entitled to enter judgment against the Recipient upon the 
award, to enforce the award against the Recipient by execution or to pursue any other remedy 
against the Recipient for the enforcement of the award, except as such procedure may be 
available against the Recipient otherwise than by reason of the provisions of this Section. If, 
within thirty days after counterparts of the award shall have been delivered to the parties, the 
award shall not be complied with by the Bank, the Recipient may take any such action for the 
enforcement of the award against the Bank.
Page  7
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding under this 
Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award rendered pursuant to this 
Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address specified in 
this Agreement or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party 
giving such notice or making such request. The parties to this Agreement waive any and all other 
requirements for the service of any such notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section
6.01.
This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties.
Section
6.02.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the Administrator in 
writing to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Technical Assistance if any of 
the following circumstances shall have occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment (notwithstanding the fact that 
such payment may have been made by a third party) of principal, interest, service charges or any 
other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or guarantee agreement 
between the Recipient and the Bank; or (ii) under any development credit agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial 
obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the 
Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any 
development credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the Recipient to 
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; or (ii) the Bank shall have suspended in 
whole or in part the right of any borrower to make withdrawals under a loan agreement with the 
Bank guaranteed by the Recipient because of a failure by such borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the Administrator, 
as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the successful implementation of the 
Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of the Technical 
Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased to 
be a member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary 
Fund.
Page  8
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient, in or pursuant to this Agreement, or any 
statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Administrator 
in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
Section
6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the Recipient and 
the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further action that may be 
necessary or desirable.
Section
6.04.
The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall 
not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section
7.01.
All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be addressed as 
follows:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Planificaci
ón y Política Económica
Vía España y Calle 52 Este
Apartado Postal
2694
Panamá 3, República de Panamá
For the Administrator and the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423
(RCA),
64145
(WUI) or
82987
(FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
Page  9
By
/s/ Guillermo Chapman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By
/s/ Edilberto Segura
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE
1
Description of Technical Assistance
1.
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the key agencies of the Recipient responsible for natural resources and 
environmental protection activities
(the Agencies), through the carrying out of studies for:
(a)
analyzing the objectives, functions and resources of the Agencies; 
(b)
reviewing mechanisms to improve coordination within and between the 
Agencies, and with the private sector and non-government organizations, via strategic planning 
seminars;
(c)
analyzing the capacity the Agencies and other Panamanian institutions to 
implement programs oriented to poverty alleviation;
(d)
analyzing natural resources conflict issues;
(e)
assessing marketing channels and margins for natural resources;
(f)
designing financial mechanisms for sustainable action on natural resources;
(g)
assessing the Agencies':
(i)
training and extension needs and mechanisms; and
(ii)
internal incentives for performance, monitoring and control of 
operations; and
Page  10
(h)
evaluating the overall environmental assessment process in the territory of the 
Recipient.
2.
Land Use Planning and Management
Strengthening the Recipient's national and local institutions and procedures for land 
zoning, demarcation and titling, aimed at improving land markets, and land use planning and 
conflict resolution, through the carrying out of studies for:
(a)
reviewing the land registry, cadastre and information systems in order to design a 
multi-use cadastre; 
(b)
designing a land use information system which incorporates zoning regulations, 
the cadastre and soil maps;
(c)
strengthening the Recipient's legal framework for land markets;
(d)
introducing participatory land use management systems at the micro level (e.g. 
community, municipality, micro watersheds);
(e)
preparing an extension services action plan to promote soil conservation; and
(f)
designing an integrated system for protected area management and land tenure 
issues related to poor and indigenous populations.
3.
Technological Improvement
Enhancement of the economic output of small farmers in critical lands, aimed at 
increasing income and employment opportunities for the rural poor, through evaluation of 
specific programs for:
(a)
technically-sound income and employment-generating actions in rural areas;
(b)
improved forest nursery, planting and management procedures;
(c)
better management of fragile soils in critical watersheds;
(d)
increased productivity in cattle ranching; and
(e)
agriculture production procedures to reduce pressure on the expansion on 
frontier areas.
4.
Policy Analysis and Reform
Revision of the Recipient's natural resources policies which generate incentives to 
deforestation and resource mismanagement and design of alternative incentives for proper 
natural resources management and conservation, through the carrying out of studies for:
(a)
analyzing the Recipient's legislation with regard to resources management;
Page  11
(b)
assessing the effects of the main natural resources policies on: 
(i)
economic efficiency; 
(ii) environment; 
and 
(iii)
the rural poor and other underprivileged groups; and
(c)
evaluating alternatives for policy reform, including the benefits and costs of such 
reforms in terms of the effects determined under subparagraph
(b) above.
SCHEDULE
2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment and Counterpart Personnel
to be Made Available by the Recipient
The Recipient shall make available to the Administrator and the Consultants:
1.
All the data and information necessary to carry out the Technical Assistance, including 
statistics and technical and legal documents possessed by the Ministry of Planning and Economic 
Policy and other agencies of the Recipient.
2.
Office space and equipment such as computers, copy and facsimile machines, and 
telephones, as required.
3. 
Secretarial services and technical personnel, as required.
