Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4158-PAN
Loan Agreement
(Rural Poverty and Natural Resources Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 8, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4158-PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund (the GEF Trust Fund) a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,100,000) to assist in financing Part B of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Bank acting as an Implementing Agency of the 
Global Environmental Facility (GEF); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
Page  2
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to 
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Loan shall be canceled.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Agent" means an entity, acceptable to the Bank, which will provide 
assistance to MIDA and INRENARE (both as hereinafter defined) with regard to 
procurement of goods, works and services required for the Project and administration 
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Agency Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
"Balboa" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(d)
"Beneficiary" means a rural community, local group, local government, NGO 
(as hereinafter defined) or private entity which has met the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual to benefit from the carrying out of a Biodiversity 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) or a Rural Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Biodiversity Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank (to be adopted by INRENARE pursuant to paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement) which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria for financing Biodiversity 
Subprojects; (ii) the criteria for selection of Beneficiaries; and (iii) the model of 
a Biodiversity Subproject Agreement;
(f)
"Biodiversity Subproject" means a specific project which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Biodiversity Operational Manual and which project consists 
of, inter alia, the provision of technical assistance and training, the acquisition 
and utilization of goods and/or the rehabilitation of infrastructure required for the 
management of Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined), promotion of biodiversity 
conservation and sustainable use, protection of sensitive areas, promotion of 
ecotourism, environmental education on the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas (as 
hereinafter defined), and sustainable use of biodiversity resources;
(g)
"Biodiversity Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred 
to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Community Action Plan" means a plan of investments including, inter 
alia, potential Rural Subprojects, of a Beneficiary;
Page  3
(i)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter from the Borrower to the Bank, 
of even date herewith, containing the indicators and targets to be utilized in 
measuring progress in Project implementation and including as annexes thereto the 
Indigenous People’s Development Plan (as hereinafter defined), and the minimum 
counterpart funds required for the carrying out of the Project;
(j)
"Implementing Organization" means an entity, acceptable to the Bank, 
which will assist the Beneficiary in the carrying out of a Rural Subproject or 
Biodiversity Subproject, as the case may be;
(k)
"Indigenous People’s Development Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, 
included in the Implementation Letter, which sets forth objectives, policies and 
actions designed to ensure that indigenous people benefit from the Project and to 
avoid or mitigate potentially adverse effects on indigenous people caused by the 
Project;
(l)
"INRENARE" means the National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources 
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables) of the Borrower; 
(m)
"Law No. 21" means Ley No. 21 of the Borrower dated December 16, 1986, 
amended from time to time;
(n)
"MIDA" means the Ministry of Agricultural Development (Ministerio de 
Desarrollo Agropecuario) of the Borrower;
(o)
"NGO" means a non-governmental entity operating in the Borrower’s 
territory;
(p)
"PCU" means the project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.07 of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter of Agreement dated December 
16, 1996 and countersigned by the Borrower on December 20, 1996;
(r)
"Protected Areas" means each of the specific areas in the territory of 
the Borrower which form part of its national protected area system as described and 
regulated in INRENARE’s Resolution No. JD-09-94 of June 29, 1994, as amended from time 
to time;
(s)
"Rural Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank (to 
be adopted by the Borrower as provided in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement) which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria for financing Rural 
Subprojects; (ii) the criteria for selection of Beneficiaries; and (iii) the model of 
a Rural Subproject Agreement;
(t)
"Rural Subproject" means a specific project which meets the criteria set 
forth in the Rural Operational Manual and consisting of, inter alia, the provision of 
technical assistance and training, the acquisition and utilization of goods and/or the 
rehabilitation of infrastructure required for rural production technology and/or rural 
production support; 
(u)
"Rural Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement;
(v)
"Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas" means collectively the Borrower’s 
atlantic biological corridor, Cerro Hoya national park and the wildlife refugees of 
Islas Cañas, Isla Iguana and Isla Taboga (together with their buffer zones) and any 
other area which may be agreed between the Borrower, INRENARE and the Bank;
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(x)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and INRENARE pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
two million five hundred thousand Dollars ($22,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of MIDA (with regard to Parts A and C of the Project) 
and the Director General of INRENARE (with regard to Part B of the Project) or any 
person designated in writing by such Minister or Director General are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(a)
shall carry out, through MIDA and with the assistance of the Agent (as 
described in Section 3.04 of this Agreement), Parts A and C of the Project, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, economic, 
technical, financial, administrative and environmental practices, and in accordance 
with the Indigenous People’s Development Plan, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the 
Project;
(b)
shall cause INRENARE, pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out 
Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, economic, financial, administrative and environmental 
practices, and in accordance with the Indigenous People’s Development Plan, and shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable INRENARE to carry out 
such Part of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Part of the Project;
(c)
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above and for the 
Page  5
purposes of financing Rural Subprojects (under Part A.5 of the Project), shall: (i) 
carry out such Part of the Project in accordance with the Rural Development 
Operational Manual; and (ii) enter into an agreement (the Rural Subproject Agreement) 
with each Implementing Organization and Beneficiary under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the Rural Development 
Operational Manual; 
(d)
shall transfer, on a grant basis, to INRENARE the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Part B of the Project under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and INRENARE, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(e)
(i)
shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(f)
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) above, shall cause 
INRENARE (for purposes of financing Biodiversity Subprojects under Part B.3 of the 
Project) to enter into an agreement (the Biodiversity Subproject Agreement) with each 
Implementing Organization and Beneficiary under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause INRENARE to, enter into an 
agreement (the Agency Agreement) with an Agent under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of the Agent to assist MIDA and 
INRENARE in the procurement of goods, works and consultants’ services under their 
respective Parts of the Project and in the administration of the disbursement of Loan 
proceeds.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall 
cause INRENARE to, not amend, assign, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
the Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, and shall cause INRENARE to, maintain 
policies and procedures adequate to enable the Borrower to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof in accordance with the indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation 
Letter. 
Section 3.06.  (a)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide in its annual 
budgets and make available, promptly as needed, to MIDA and INRENARE each calendar 
year until the completion of the Project, the minimum amounts of counterpart funds 
required for the carrying out of the Project as set forth in the Implementation 
Letter. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than thirty calendar days after each annual 
budget mentioned in (a) herein has been approved, furnish to the Bank an authenticated 
copy of such annual budget which shall include at least the minimum amounts of 
counterpart funds set forth in the Implementation Letter for the corresponding 
calendar year.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter operate and maintain 
during the implementation of the Project: (a) a technical and operational coordination 
Page  6
council; and (b) a Project coordinating unit (the PCU), both with staffing, functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause INRENARE, at the request of the Bank, 
to exchange views with the Bank with respect to the progress in the carrying out of 
Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters related to the purposes of the Loan for such Part of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause INRENARE to promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of such Part of 
the Project mentioned in (a) above, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan for 
such Part of the Project, or the performance of INRENARE of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall: (a) not later than July 31 of each year until the completion of the 
Project, starting on July 31, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to the 
activities to be carried out under the Project during the calendar year following the 
date of presentation of each such plan; and (b) thereafter carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, the corresponding plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.10. Without limitation to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall not later than forty five calendar days after the completion of each 
calendar quarter during Project implementation, starting on June 30, 1997, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower and INRENARE in 
the carrying out of their corresponding Parts of the Project.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions and Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall 
cause INRENARE to, not later than August 31 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting on August 31, 1997, review jointly with the Bank the corresponding reports 
mentioned in Section 3.10 of this Agreement in order to determine the progress  made 
by the Borrower and INRENARE in carrying out their respective Parts of the Project and 
in achieving the objectives of the Project.  As part of each such review the Bank may 
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank to make 
adjustments in Project implementation. If so, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than 
forty five calendar days after the conclusion of the review in question prepare and 
furnish to the Bank such action plan; and (b) thereafter carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall:
(a)
refrain from carrying out any Rural Subproject that may involve any 
involuntary resettlement of population; and
(b)
pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement, cause INRENARE to 
refrain from carrying out any Biodiversity Subproject that may involve any involuntary 
resettlement of population.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
such Part of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
Page  7
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause INRENARE to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition, including separate accounts for Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause INRENARE to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably requested.
Section 4.03. Without limitations to the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause INRENARE to:
(a)
have an adequate sample of Biodiversity Subprojects and Rural 
Subprojects, selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank every fiscal year  during the execution of the Project; such audit to 
include a review of procurement procedures and documentation related to the selected 
Subprojects; and 
(b)
furnish to the Bank, not later than two months after the end of each such 
fiscal year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Page  8
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause INRENARE:
(a)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound engineering, economic, technical, financial, administrative and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with the sound practices mentioned in (a) herein. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
INRENARE shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
Law No. 21 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as to materially and adversely affect, 
in the opinion of the Bank, the operations or the financial condition of INRENARE or 
its ability to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INRENARE or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(d)
The GEF Trust Fund Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  any 
grant (including the GEF Grant) or  loan made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor 
(including the GEF Trust Fund Agreement); or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under each such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Page  9
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as  additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
That the technical and operational coordination council referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement and the PCU have been duly established with 
organizational structures, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.  
(b)
That the Agency Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto as 
provided in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date March 9, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning and Economic Policy of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica
Via España y Calle 52 Este
Apartado Postal 2694
Panama 3, República de Panama
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Eduardo Morgan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Zafer Ecevit
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a)
under Part A of the
  50,000
80%
Project (other than 
Part A.5 of the Project)
(b)
under Part B of the
 200,000
80%
Project (other than 
Part B.3 of the Project)
(2)
Goods
(a)
under Part A of        1,100,000
100% of foreign
the Project (other 
expenditures and
than Part A.5 of the 
80% of local
Project)
expenditures
(b)
under Part B of the      300,000
100% of foreign
Project (other than 
expenditures and
Part B.3 of the Project)
80% of local
expenditures
(c)
under Part C of 
       200,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants'
services
(a)
under Part A of the    3,000,000
100%
Project (other than 
Part A.5 of the Project)
(b)
under Part B of the      500,000
100%
Project (other than 
Part B.3 of the Project)
(c)
under Part C of the    1,700,000
100%
Project
(4)
Training
(a)
under Part A of the    1,200,000
100%
Project (other than 
Part A.5 of the Project)
(b)
under Part B of the      200,000
100%
Project (other than 
Part B.3 of the Project)
(c)
under Part C of the      100,000
100%
Project
(5)
Rural Subprojects
     9,600,000
100%
(6)
Biodiversity Subprojects
 400,000
100%
Page  11
(7)
Operating Costs
(a)
under Part A of the
 650,000
90% during the
Project (other than 
first two years after the
Part A.5 of the Project)
Effective Date; 60% 
during the third and
fourth years after
the Effective Date and
40% thereafter
(b)
under Part B of the      100,000
90% during the
Project (other than 
first two years after the
Part B.3 of the Project)
Effective Date; 60%
during the third and
fourth years after
the Effective Date and
40% thereafter 
(c)
under Part C of the      800,000
90% during the
Project
first two years after the
Effective Date; 60%
during the third and
fourth years after
the Effective Date; and
40% thereafter 
(8)
Refunding of
     1,200,000
Amounts due 
Project Prepara-
pursuant to 
tion Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(9)
Unallocated
     1,200,000
TOTAL
    22,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "training" means expenditures related to training materials, 
rental of training facilities, registration fees, travel, and per diem; and
(d)
the term "Operating Costs"  means expenditures incurred for: (i) 
remuneration of personnel hired under the corresponding Parts of the Project as 
indicated in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule; and (ii)  recurrent costs 
associated  with the implementation of the Project, including: (A) operation, leasing 
and maintenance of: (1) vehicles (including fuel, repairs and spare parts); and (2) 
office equipment and office facilities under the Project; (B) insurance for equipment 
and vehicles procured under the Project; (C) office materials and office utilities 
associated with the functioning of the PCU; and (D) communications expenses required 
for the implementation of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (7) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1997; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (5) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Rural Subproject under Part A.5 
of the Project unless: (i) the Rural Development Operational Manual has been approved 
by the Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the corresponding Rural 
Subproject Agreement has been signed;
Page  12
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), 4 
(b) and 7 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of Part B 
of the Project unless: (i) the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the parties 
thereto; and (ii) a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to 
the Bank, has been furnished to the Bank showing that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and INRENARE and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and INRENARE in accordance with its terms;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Category (6) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for the financing of each Biodiversity Subproject under 
Part B.3 of the Project unless: (i) the conditions referred to in paragraph 3 (c) 
above have been met; (ii) the Biodiversity Operational Manual has been approved by 
INRENARE in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) the corresponding 
Biodiversity Subproject Agreement has been signed; and
(e)
payments made for expenditures incurred in the purchase of pesticides 
unless the pesticides in question are acceptable to the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods (other 
than vehicles, motorcycles and computer and hardware equipment) costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent each; (b) works costing $250,000 equivalent or less each; (c) for 
goods and works for Rural Subprojects and Biodiversity Subprojects; (d) consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (e) individual consultants costing 
less than $30,000 equivalent each; and (f) all Training and Operating Costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) apply, on a pilot basis,  
methodologies that would channel financial resources to rural communities to assist 
them in promoting sustainable productive systems, and reducing rural poverty, 
degradation of natural resources and migration; and (b) promote sustainable use and 
conservation of the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  Sustainable Rural Development
1.
Strengthening of MIDA’s capabilities to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities related to the provision of services to  rural communities, through 
the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization 
of goods required therefor. 
2.
Carrying out of a training program for MIDA’s personnel, Implementing 
Organizations and Beneficiaries in activities related to community organization, 
production technology and production support to assist the Borrower in the carrying 
out of  Part A of the Project, including the acquisition and utilization of goods 
required therefor. 
3.
Carrying out of a training program for rural communities to assist such 
communities in: (a) the identification of their needs, specifically in activities 
related to production technology, community organization and production support; and 
(b) the preparation of their corresponding Community Action Plans.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to Beneficiaries to assist them in the 
selection and preparation of  Rural Subprojects which have been included in the 
corresponding Community Action Plan.
5.
Carrying out of Rural Subprojects.
Part B:
Biodiversity Conservation
1.
(a) Carrying out of: (i) studies to prepare plans to manage the Selected 
Priority Biodiversity Areas; (ii) environmental evaluations of investments in the 
areas which have relevance to the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas; (iii) a public 
information campaign with respect to the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas; (b) 
design and implementation of plans to promote the participation of the population 
Page  13
living in the areas which have relevance to the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas; 
and (c) provision of technical assistance to INRENARE to identify and monitor 
biodiversity threats to the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas. 
2.
Carrying out of a program which consists, inter alia, of the provision of 
training and technical assistance to: (a) Beneficiaries in conservation of 
biodiversity, ecosystem services and sustainable use; (b) Implementing Organizations 
to promote the Borrower’s strategy for the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas; (c) 
the Borrower to inform other entities within the executive branch of the Borrower’s 
strategy for the Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas; (d) INRENARE, Implementing 
Organizations and Beneficiaries in the areas of  administration and management of 
Selected Priority Biodiversity Areas, including the acquisition and utilization of 
goods required to carry out such program.
3.
Carrying out of Biodiversity Subprojects.
4.
(a) Carrying out of infrastructure improvements in the Selected Priority 
Biodiversity Areas including the rehabilitation of access roads, administrative 
centers, visitors centers, living quarters for park personnel and scientific research 
facilities; (b) acquisition and utilization of equipment required in the Selected 
Priority Biodiversity Areas for their management and administration; and (c) 
demarcation and titling of private properties adjoining Selected Priority Biodiversity 
Areas including surveys, placement of boundary markers, signs and services for title 
adjudication.
Part C:
Project Coordination
1.
Provision of technical assistance to the PCU to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities, including the acquisition and utilization of goods required 
therefor.
2.
Carrying out of studies in fields related to rural development and natural 
resources management.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
Page  14
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months' notice to the Borrower of 
Page  15
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods  to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (other than vehicles, 
motorcycles, computer and software equipment and goods for Rural Subprojects and 
Biodiversity Subprojects) shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Vehicles, motorcycles and computer and hardware equipment, shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods (other than vehicles, motorcycles, computer and hardware equipment 
and goods for Rural Subprojects and Biodiversity Subprojects) estimated to cost 
$25,000 equivalent or more per contract  but less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
Page  16
(b)
Works (other than works for Rural Subprojects and Biodiversity 
Subprojects) estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent per contract , shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under Part C.2 (a) and (b) above, 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
3.
International or National Shopping 
Goods (other than vehicles, motorcycles, computer and software equipment 
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Goods and/or works for Rural Subprojects and Biodiversity Subprojects estimated 
to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,500,000 shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Parts B and C.1 
of this Section; (b) the first three contracts for goods to be awarded under Part C.2 
(a) of this Section; and (c) the first three contracts for works to be awarded under 
Part C.2 (b) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
Page  17
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.  Special Provisions 
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.2 of Section I of this 
Schedule:
1.
Bids may be:
(a)
submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, 
courier or person; and
(b)
accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the 
standard bidding documents.
2.
No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
3.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
4.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest and responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the 
standard bidding documents.
5.
Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, whenever 
appropriate.
6.
After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time 
period and in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.
Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in 
contracts for works.
B.
In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection 
process;
(b)
give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any 
local firm or person for the purposes of participating in the selection process or 
receiving an award, except in connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a 
sufficient number of capable domestic firms or individual consultants exist to allow a 
foreign consultant reasonable freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party 
to the joint venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner or 
extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required to associate 
itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual consultants;
(c)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal 
capacity or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d)
personally submit their proposals. 
2.
Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to submit 
proposals on the basis of terms of reference, employment conditions and evaluation 
criteria clearly set forth in the respective letter of invitation.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  18
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed an amount equal to 
$3,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
Page  19
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
