Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11495
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
DECEMBER 28, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
1985        US$1 = BuF 120.7
1986        US$1 = BuF 114.2
1987        US$l = BuF 123.6
1988        US$1 = BuF 140.4
1989        US$l = BuF 158.7
1990        US$1 - BuF 171.3
1991        US$1 = BuF 181.5
MEASUREMENTS
GWh         gigawatt hour            1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kV          kilovolt                 1,000 volts
kVa         kilovolt amperes         1,000 volt ampere
kW          kilowatt                 1,000 watts
kWh         kilowatt hour            1,000 watt hours
MW          megawatt                 1,000 kilowatts
MWh         megawatt hour            1,000 kilowatt hours
kgoe        kilo of oil equivalent  10,500 kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (French aid
agency)
DUB         D6partement Urbain de Bujumbura (Bujumbura Urban
Department)
ESRP        Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project
GtZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German aid agency)
MPWEM       Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mines
ONATOUR     Office National de la Tourbe (Burundian peat
development bureau)
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
REGIDESO    Regie de distribution d'eau et d'6lectricite
(Burundian national electricity and water utility)
SCEP        Service Charg6 des Entreprises Publiques (Burundian
national service for public enterprises)
SNEL        Societ6 Nationale d'Electricit6 (Zairian national
power company)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMIORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Burundi
Transmission and Distribution Prolect (Credit 1593-BU)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Burundi - Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit 1593-BU) ", prepared
by the Africa Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The project achieved its physical objectives albeit 12 to 18 months
late.   Institutional  and  financial goals were  only  partly  reached.   In
particular, the separation of the financial accounts for water and electricity
of REGIDESO, the national water and electricity utility, did not take place and
the company fell short of meeting the revenue covenant agreed with IDA. However,
the project and the IDA-supported structural adjustment program laid the ground
for the recent reduction of REGIDESO's staff by one third and, hopefully, for
further institutional progress.  Views on the energy conservation part of the
project are in part contradictory, IDA considering the outcome a success, in
sharp contrast to REGIDESO. The envisaged audit of the project will clarify this
point.  At this point, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the
benefits from the operation as sustainable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................                                          l i
PART 1:       PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Background .
3.     Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .
4.     Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
5.  Project Implementation.                                                     3
6.     Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
7.     Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
8. Bank Performance .9
9.     Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
10.     Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
11.     Consultant Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
12.     Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PART II:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . 11
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
1. Related IDA Credits .14
2. Project Timetable .14
3.  Credit Disbursements .15
4.  Project Implementation .15
5.     Project Cost and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
6.     Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
7. Status of Covenants .19
8.     Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
9. Mission Data .21
ANNEX
Annex   1      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    . 22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(Credit 1593-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Burundi
Transmission and Distribution Project for which a Credit of SDR 12.9
million to the Republic of Burundi was approved on April 9, 1985.  The
Credit was closed on December 31, 1991, two years after the original
closing date.   The last disbursement was made on August 28, 1991; the
remaining balance from the Credit account as of May 30, 1992, is
SDR4,289,214.62. This does not include proceeds from the Special Account
for which a portion would need to be refunded. Once this is done, the
remaining balance will be cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy
Operations Division of Country Department III of the Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Regie de
Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricit6 tREGIDESO), the country' electricity
and water company, executing agency for the project (Part III).   The
project review from the Borrower's perspective is given in Part II. The
Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) also provided comments.
Preparation of this PCR is based on information contained in the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, consultants' progress and final reports, correspondence in the
project files and data furnished by REGIDESO.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives and Description
1.        The main objective of the project was to augment and improve the
reliability of supply of electricity to the capital city, Bujumbura, and its
surrounding areas, by providing transmission and distribution facilities to
receive power from the newly constructed Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric plant.
Service would be extended to additional consumers in order to sustain and
increase the economic growth expected in industrial and commercial activities
and in the domestic sector. Extension of the distribution network to low income
districts of Bujumbura was to substitute electricity for kerosene used in
lighting, thus contributing to the reduction of the petroleum import bill while
improving the standard of living of those people served.   Extension of the
subtransmission and distribution facilities to seven regional towns to the
northwest of the capital aimed at further substitution of hydropower for
kerosene and at replacement of autoproducers' diesel generation by
hydroelectricity. Finally, the provision of technical assistance to REGIDESO
(the national water and electricity company), and the training of its staff,
were designed to improve the quality of services and its financial performance.
2.        The project consisted of a 110 kV transmission line (83 km) from the
Ruzizi II power plant (jointly owned by Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire) to Bubanza;
construction of 110/30 kV substations in Bubanza and Cibitoke, two 30 kV
subtransmission lines (42 km) to supply the regional towns of Rugombo, Mparambo,
Mpanda and Muzinda and a 15 kV feeder to Katumba and distribution networks in
these towns; construction of distribution networks to consumers in six low-
income districts of Bujumbura; rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I - Bujumbura 70 kV
line (owned by SNEL-Zaire) and Bujumbura substation; construction and equipping
of a training center for REGIDESO; engineering and consultant services for
management assistance to REGIDESO and training of its staff; follow up of a
program to disseminate improved charcoal stoves and advise on petroleum matters.
Implementation Exoerience
3.        In general, works were completed several months after the original
estimated date owing to delays in Credit effectiveness and late tendering. The
completion of the training center was delayed by three years due to unduly long
bid document preparation and problems of contract award (para. 5.04).
4.        BurundiIs inability to rehabilitate the 70kV transmission line linking
Zaire's Ruzizi I power plant to Bujumbura and the Bujumbura substation is now
creating a bottleneck to new supply (para. 5.10). These installations are an
important link in the supply of power to Burundi's network, but are owned by
SNEL, the Zairian national power company.   Discussions are now in progress
between SNEL and REGIDESO to transfer the Bujumbura substation to REGIDESO so
as to enable it to execute the required work.
5.        The technical assistance had little impact on general or financial
management of the company (paras. 5.11-5.14).
6.        Government sponsored cookstove production took off slowly, but the
technology has proven to be sound as evidenced by private sector artisans
copying the design and by consumer use of stoves, which far exceeds the number
of stoves produced by the official dissemination program (para. 5.15).
Results



iii
7         The project was successful in meeting its primary objectives of
augmenting and improving reliability of electricity supply to Bujumbura and its
environs, of providing transmission and distribution facilities to receive
additional power from Ruzizi II and serving additional consumer. Except for the
rehabilitation of the 70 KV transmission line linking Ruzizi I power plant to
Bujumbura and the Bujumbura substation, for which discussions are in progress
to transfer it to REGIDESO, physical components were completed with delays but
within cost estimates.  However, objectives related to improving REGIDESO's
financial performance were for the most part not met, although substantial
improvements have been obtained within the follow-up Energy Sector
Rehabilitation Credit.  Use of improved charcoal stoves has yielded energy
savings as both private sector stove manufacturers and consumers have adopted
the new technology. REGIDESO staff received some limited training due to delays
in constructing the training center.
a.        REGIDESOIs financial performance with regard to electricity operations
could not be determined as separate accounts for electricity and water
operations were not prepared up to 1991.  Little progress was made at the
beginning in establishing a sound pricing policy for electricity, until the
issue was linked to the dialogue with IDA on general economic policy and
management in the context of Structural Adjustment Credits.  At the present
time, tariffs are equal to marginal cost for medium voltage consumers and
slightly lower for low voltage consumers.
Sustainabil itY
9.        In order to sustain the benefits of the project, REGIDESO and the
Government should continue to focus on institutional development which will
improve and expand utility services and implement sound commercial and financial
policies.  The benefits of the improved cookstove dissemination program have
been increased through training of more private sector artisans and
establishment of an appropriate commercialization process.  All of the above
actions are being supported by the follow-up Energy Sector Rehabilitation
Project (ESRP, CR 2230-BU) which is currently under execution.
Lessons Learned
10.       Project design was sound, with the exception of the rehabilitation of
the 70 KV transmission line and Bujumbura substation as mentioned earlier.
Successful achievement of objectives required identification of issues and
related corrective actions, including institutional strengthening and policy
measures, to take place before or early in the execution period.   Lessons
learned pertain therefore to the need to ensure that actions are taken in a
timely and effective manner. The transfer of SNEL-owned installations, whose
rehabilitation in key to Burundi's power supply, might have been easier to
complete if the issue had been raised and addressed in the context of regional
cooperation at the time of construction of the Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric
plant which, in fact, took place before project execution. With regard to the
low-cost connection policy, more effort should have been made by both the Bank
and REGIDESO to ensure that the policy was formulated and implemented early in
the project execution period as originally envisaged. This however is now being
done under the ESRP where connection costs were reduced by about 40 % and a
comprehensive connection policy and program is being executed. Deterioration
of REGIDESO's financial situation might have been avoided had commitment been
greater to implement a sound tariff policy and eliminate accounting
deficiencies. Where energy pricing is a politically sensitive issue, it may be
more effective to link conditionality to up-front measures and, if necessary,
to the economic policy dialogue, than to leverage investment operations where
incentives to perform tend to diminish once the major components are
implemented.
11.       In cases of multi-product companies, the monitoring of only part of
a company's operations may lead to incomplete solutions to problems and create
an artificial view of financial soundness.   Measures to achieve financial



iv
soundness and improve financial management are more effective if they treat the
company as a whole.  REGIDESO has now separate accounts for electricity and
water, but overall performance of the company should be stressed.   The last
lesson concerns the appropriate roles for Government and the private sector in
the introduction of an energy saving technology. In the case of the improved
cookstove dissemination program, the project has been successful in replacing
a government-managed production process with more private sector involvement.
Government intervention have been limited to creating incentives for adoption
of  the  new  technology  by  private  manufacturers  and  consumers.    Stove
manufacturing is now carried out by private artisans.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
PART I: REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name :       Transmission and Distribution Project
Credit Number:       1593-BU
RVP Unit             Africa Region Country Department III
Country       :      Burundi
Sector               Energy
Subsector            Power
2.        Background
2.01      Burundi is a small landlocked country of 27,820 km2 with a
population estimated at about 5.3 million (1991).  Per capita consumption
of non traditional energy (petroleum products and electricity) is only 12
kgoe, one of the lowest in Africa. Consumption of these fuels grew faster
than population and GDP in the last two decades, averaging 9% per year
during the 1973-80 period and 6% per year from 1980-88.
2.02      Burundi is rich in potential hydropower resources.   However,
exploitation of these resources has been constrained not by the resource
base, but by the economic and financial problems of expanding the
electrical network to consumers. Up to the early 1980s, Burundi relied
almost exclusively on Ruzizi I, a power plant owned by SNEL-Zaire, for its
electricity supply. Burundi participated jointly with Rwanda and Zaire
in the construction of Ruzizi II1/, a project supported by IDA which
started operation in 1989.
2.03      The main objective of the energy sector development strategy of
the Government of Burundi at the time of the appraisal of the Transmission
and Distribution Project was to reduce its dependency on foreign sources
for the supply of electricity. Electricity was regarded as being vital to
the economy and security of the country. Other elements of the strategy
included improving the access of the population to electricity and
creating a sound and efficient power utility. The Power Transmission and
Distribution Project was intended to address all of these objectives.
3.        Project Obiectives and Description
3.01      Prolect Oblectives.  The main objective of the project was to
augment and improve the reliability of supply of electricity to Bujumbura
and its environs, by providing transmission and distribution facilities to
receive power from the newly constructed Ruzizi II regional hydroelectric
plant.   This would extend service to additional consumers in order to
sustain and increase the economic growth of industrial and commercial
I/ Credits 1419-BU, 1420-RW, 1421-ZR of April 4, 1984 in the amount of
SDR 13 million each. A PCR for this operation was issued on April 26,
1992.



- 2 -
activities and the domestic sector. Extension of the distribution network
to low income districts of Bujumbura was to substitute electricity for
kerosene used in lighting, thus contributing to the reduction of the
petroleum import bill while improving the lives of those people served.
Extension of the subtransmission and distribution facilities to seven
regional towns to the northwest of the capital aimed at further
substitution of hydropower for kerosene and at replacement of
autoproducers' diesel generation by hydroelectricity.   In addition, the
provision of technical assistance to REGIDESO and the training of REGIDESO
staff helped improve the quality of its services  and its financial
performance.
3.02      Prolect Description.  The project consisted of the following:
(1)     Extension of the Power Transmission and Distribution
System
(a)   a 110 KV transmission  (83 km)  from the
Ruzizi II power plant to Bubanza;
(b)   construction of 110/30 KV substations in
Bubanza   and   Cibitoke,   two   30   KV
subtransmission lines (42 km) to supply the
regional towns of Rugombo, Mparambo, Mpanda
and Muzinda and a 15 KV feeder to Katumba,
and distribution networks in these towns;
(c)   construction of distribution networks to
consumers in six low-income districts of
Bujumbura; and
(d)   rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I - Bujumbura
70 KV line and Bujumbura substation.
(2)     Training
(a)   construction and equipping of a training
center; and
(b)   technical   assistance   for   design   and
execution of a program to train REGIDESO
staff.
(3)     Consultant Services
(a)   engineering services; and
(b)   technical  assistance  to  REGIDESO  for
accounting and stock management.
(4)     Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public
Works, Energy and Mines for:
(a)   follow  up  of  a program  to  disseminate
improved charcoal stoves in Bujumbura2/;
and
(b)   advice on petroleum matters.
4.        Proiect Design and Oraanization
4.01      Initially, the Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Project was to
include,  in addition to construction of a 27 MW hydropower  plant,
transmission and distribution facilities for the three participating
countries (Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire).   However, except for the regional
2/ The program was initiated under the IDA-supported Urban Development
Project (Credit 1409-BU).



dispatching station, the preparation of this project between 1974 and 1981
did not consider the specifics of transmission and distribution within
each national network. Because the requirements of the transmission and
distribution networks vary from country to country, it was necessary to
separate the transmission and distribution components from the Ruzizi II
project, and to impiement them as separate projects, one of which was the
Burundi Transmission and Distribution Project.   For Rwanda and Zaire,
there was no need to add an electricity transmission network to transport
power from Ruzizi II to their consumption centers, as the high voltage
(HV) lines from Ruzizi I and Mururu I station (all located near the Mururu
II dispatching station) were suffiently sized to handle such transmission.
For Burundi, however, there was a need for such a network as the 70 kv
Bukavu-Bujumbura line is not only owned by SNEL but was not well sized to
transport more than 10 MW.
4.02      The scope and timing of the transmission and distribution
components can be deemed appropriate as they represent the logical follow-
on to the Ruzizi II project. Project design also took into account the
main recommendations of an Energy Sector Assessment carried out in early
1981.  Thus, components for dissemination of improved charcoal stoves,
funding of a petroleum advisor to the Ministry of Public Works Energy and
Mines (MPWEM) and preparation of a long-term power master plan were
included to (1) alleviate depletion of woodfuels, (2) reduce the cost of
importing oil products and (3) reinforce energy planning capability at the
subsector level.
4.03      Feasibility studies  for a transmission line connecting the
Ruzizi II plant to the Burundian power network, for supply of electricity
to the provincial cities of Cibitoke, Rugombo, Mparambo, Bubanza, Mpanda,
Muzinda and Katumba and for extension of the Bujumbura distribution
network to six low-income districts, as well as studies for management
improvements and an appropriate rate structure, were financed by an
advance of US$400,000 from the Project Preparation Facility granted on May
10,  1983.     The  low-income  districts  were  chosen  to  complement
infrastructure development under urban projects supported by IDA (CR 1409-
BU) and the UNDP.
4.04      During project preparation, the issue of a power rate increase
arose. REGIDESO's previous increase had been in 1980, and low revenues
contributed to an unacceptable rate of return on fixed power assets of 2%.
At the Decision Meeting, it was agreed that a 25% increase, which would
raise the company's return to 8%, would be a condition of Credit
negotiation.    This  was  later  postponed  to  a  condition  of  Board
presentation and adjusted to a 30% increase to take into account the lapse
of time.
5.        Proiect ImDlementation
5.01      Overview.  The Credit became effective on July 15, 1986, after
four postponements of the limit date. The effectiveness delay was mainly
due to the requirement for adequate assurances from Rwanda and Zaire
concerning free access for the construction, operation and maintenance of
the 110 kV line connecting the Burundi network to the Ruzizi II plant. In
the end, the Bank accepted, based on previous positive experience with a
parallel transmission line from Ruzizi I, legal texts which were less
precise than it had originally requested.   No issues related to free
access arose during the construction period through the present.
5.02      Four contracts were let for works and four for services, with
IDA financing those for the HV transmission line, substations,
construction of a training center, engineering, management assistance,
asset  revaluation  and  a  planning  study.    The  Caisse  Centrale  de
Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) financed the extension of the distribution
network to six districts in Bujumbura and to the center of Katumba, as



-4-
well as electrification of the Bubanza and Cibitoke regions.  The CCCE
financing was also used to pay for engineering services and assistance to
the two projects.   Finally, the CCCE financed regional electrification
studies for the southeastern region of Burundi and for the 30 kv lines of
Muyinga-Cankuzo and Cibitoke-Buhoro, and the construction of the latter
for connection with a tea-processing plant.   The German aid agency,
Deutsche Geselluchaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), provided a
grant for the services of experts to design a training program and the
Bank financed the construction of the training center, including bid
document preparation.   In general, works were completed several months
after the original estimated date owing to delays in Credit effectiveness
which resulted in late tendering.   The training center, however, was
completed with a three-year delay due to unduly long bid document
preparation and problems of contract awards. Planned and actual dates for
procurement and execution of works are compared in Table 4 of Part III.
5.03      Procurement.  With the exception of construction of the training
center, tendering and contract awards were carried out effectively and in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The threshold for prior review of
bid documents was established at US$100,000.   Nonetheless, the bidding
process for the training center was initiated without such a review,
leading the Bank to suspend the process in September 1988. After assuring
itself that the bidding took place on the basis of adequate publicity,
that a sufficient number of bidders had responded and that project and bid
documents conformed to the Bank's requirements, the Bank advised REGIDESO
in December 1988 that the comparison of offers could proceed. However, a
contract was not awarded until January 1990 owing to the Burundi
Government's decision to investigate a complaint submitted by another firm
which had bid for the contract but not been selected.   These delays
required several extensions of the validity date of the offers and
resulted in an increase in the bid price of the winning firm due to
application of the price revision clause.
5.04      On several other occasions REGIDESO did not submit to the Bank
for review, various documents related to procurement of consultant
services and extension of contracts. During the March 1990 supervision
mission, this problem was the subject of extensive discussions resulting
in understandings which, though occurring too late to have an impact on
the execution of the Transmission and Distribution Project, are likely to
improve procurement practices under the follow-up ESRP (CR. 2230-BU).
5.05      Project Costs.   The estimated cost of the Transmission and
Distribution Project at the time of appraisal was about US$21.8 million.
The final cost is about US$17.07 million as shown in Table 5A of Part III.
The underrun of about 22% occurred because (1) two project components were
not implemented: rehabilitation of the Ruzizi I - Bujumbura transmission
line and Bujumbura substation (para. 5.10), and employment of a petroleum
advisor to the MPWEM (para. 5.16)) and (2) the rate of exchange of
contract currencies to the dollar favored the latter during the period of
the major works.
5.06      Disbursements.  The estimated and actual disbursements of Credit
1593-BU are given in Table 3 of Part III. The lag in disbursements was
due to the delay in Credit effectiveness and the non-implementation of two
components already indicated (para 5.05). The original closing date was
December 29, 1989. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991 after four
extensions due to delay in the completion of the Training Center.
Disbursements against commitments were made until August 28, 1991. As of
May 30, 1992, there was an outstanding balance of SDR4,289,214.62 which
does not include refunding of a portion of the Special Account.   The
Government did not want to cancel the unused funds early on as recommended
by the Bank, but suggested it be used to finance household connections and
computers.  However, this never materialized.  Once the portion of the
Special Account is refunded, the remaining balance will be cancelled.



- 5 -
5.07      The Credit Agreement was modified in December 1987 to increase
the percentage of foreign exchange expenditures for construction and
erection of the transmission line and substation and to permit
disbursement of Credit funds for local expenditures for the stove
dissemination program.
5.08      Low-Cost   Connection   Policy.       Feasibility   studies   for
distribution extension carried out during project preparation, showed that
high capital costs and upfront connection charges were a bottleneck to
adding new electricity consumers. This was even more of a problem in the
target districts of the project where the incomes of the population were
below average. Thus, for the project to achieve the targeted number of
new consumers, a policy reducing both the cost of a household connection
and spreading payments over time was needed. A study with recommendations
for a low-cost connection policy was completed by REGIDESO in 1986 to
fulfill the condition set forth in the Project Agreement, but the Bank did
not find the recommendations appropriate. REGIDESO undertook to revise
the study, and issued a new version in 1988. Following implementation of
the policy in mid-1988, new connections rose considerably. From an annual
average of 779 connections in 1987-88, the figure jumped to an average of
1,717 connections in 1989 and 2,200 connections in 1990.   Given the
importance of a low-cost connection policy to the success and
sustainability of the project, more effort should have been made to
formulate and implement the policy early in the project execution period.
Under the ongoing ESRP, a new policy is being adopted that will result in
a further reduction of about 40 % for connection cost and will boost the
connection program.
5.09       SNEL Transmission Line and Substation.  An issue arose with
regard to rehabilitation of the 70 kV line linking Zaire's Ruzizi I power
plant to Bujumbura and the Bujumbura substation. For historical reasons,
these installations are owned and operated by the Soci6t6 Nationale
d'Electricit6 (SNEL), the Zaire national power company although they are
mainly  located  in  Burundi's  territory.    At  the  time  of  project
preparation, there was an agreement in principle between REGIDESO and SNEL
on the transfer of rights for the line and substation to REGIDESO, which
has the greater interest in their effective operation and maintenance. A
condition of disbursement of funds for this component was that REGIDESO
obtain the necessary legal rights to protect its interests. In 1988, SNEL
withdrew its agreement to the transfer and proposed instead to finance the
rehabilitation works using funds from the IDA supported Power II Project
in Zaire  (Credit 1712-ZR).   This did not materialize either due to
overcommitment of the IDA Credit. The line and substation are now in such
poor condition that they represent a bottleneck for reliable supply to
Bujumbura and to other centers supplied through the capital.   In the
absence of a transfer agreement with the Zairian authorities, a new
substation will need to be built, at a higher cost than rehabilitation of
the existing one. Given the critical role the line and substation play in
supplying power to Burundi's major population centers, more attention
should have been given to a satisfactory solution before project approval.
This issue was recently brought again to the attention of SNEL management.
As a result, discussions are now underway for the transfer of rights to
take place with Bank assistance.
5.10      Strengthening of REGIDESO.    The  diagnostic  study  for the
formulation of a program to reinforce REGIDESO's management practices was
not completed prior to project appraisal. Selection of a consulting firm
took longer than anticipated, and the study did not begin until after
project appraisal. Given that delay, the Bank's internal review of the
project recommended that a plan of action for management improvement be
agreed at Credit negotiations, in order for institutional reform to begin
early in the project execution period.   However, at negotiations, the
limit date for agreement on an Action Plan was further delayed to Credit
effectiveness.



5.11      The Plan was completed in mid-1985.  To implement it, REGIDESO
decided to maintain the consulting firm which had undertaken the
diagnostic study through  sole source negotiation.   One year  later,
REGIDESO requested that assistance be extended to ensure that the new
procedures which had been defined would be  implemented.   For this
extension, REGIDESO proposed that two experts from the consulting firm be
given individual contracts to continue their work in the areas of
finance/administration and inventory management.   REGIDESO cited cost
savings as the main reason for choosing individual contracts over
extension of the original firm, and confirmed that the two experts would
hold line management positions.   The Bank did not object to the new
arrangement which came into effect in mid-1986.
5.12      By mid-1987, little progress had been made in attaining the
objectives of the management improvement program. In spite of a focus on
improving inventory and financial management, REGIDESO was still unable to
carry out an acceptable inventory at year-end or to produce financial
accounts which could be audited on time. It is not clear whether the two
experts exercised their authority ineffectively, or whether their
authority was merely titular and their services were not fully utilized by
REGIDESO.  In September 1987, the Bank requested an evaluation of the
services of the two experts and supported a proposal from REGIDESO to
reorient the work of the finance/administration expert away from day-to-
day tasks to resolution of commercial issues.
5.13      While there is little record of the subsequent  activities
carried out, it is clear that the technical assistance program did not
have a significant impact on general or financial management of the
company.  As a result, in mid-1988, the Government agreed to include
REGIDESO as one of the enterprises to be rehabilitated and strengthened
under the Economic and Public Enterprise Management Project (Credit 1795-
BU). A new diagnostic study was undertaken which addressed broader issues
such  as  REGIDESO's  autonomy,   financial   restructuring,   staffing
requirements and the reciprocal Government-REGIDESO obligations to be
outlined  in a performance  contract.   In April  1989,  the Bank and
REGIDESO's principal donors outlined a second reform program and agreed
upon joint support for its implementation. The Bank has provided funding
for a Management Assistance Partnership Program under the ongoing ESRP
which paired REGIDESO with an international power utility.  A detailed
performance contract was signed in July 1989 and its effective
implementation is monitored by a committee of various representatives of
key ministries and the Public Enterprise Bureau (SCEP). Early results of
the new approach have been positive.  REGIDESO and the Government have
acted decisively to adjust power rates (para. 6.06), reduce staff and
implement new commercial policies (para. 5.08), indicating their
commitment to reform of the company.
5.14      Stove Dissemination Proaram. The project was to provide limited
funding to ensure continuity in the marketing of improved cookstoves
developed under the Urban Development Project (Cr. 1049-BU), which was
scheduled to be completed at end-1986.   The program advanced slowly.
First, it was attached administratively to several different Government
agencies including the Direction Urbaine de Bujumbura (DUB), and the
National Peat Bureau (ONATOUR). The DUB and ONATOUR felt little ownership
of the program as it was not directly relevant to their main operations.
This arrangement created little incentive to produce improved stoves and
fewer stoves were manufactured under the program than forecast.
Nonetheless, the program did have successful aspects. Numerous artisans
learned the new technologies and the population became well acquainted
with the stoves because of the effective publicity campaigns. Consumer
stove use in Bujumbura, as determined by surveys, far exceeds the number
of stoves produced by the stove dissemination program itself. Under these
circumstances, direct assistance to and earlier involvement of the private
sector, as is being done in the ESRP, could have made the program more
effective.



-7-
5.15      Petroleum Adviser.  In December 1986, the Bank was notified that
a firm had been selected to supply an adviser to the MPWEM, however,
negotiations with the firm were never concluded owing to a change in
Government.   A study of least-cost supply of petroleum products was
completed under the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management
Program3/, complemented by an independent consultant's study on pricing
policy. These recommendations are being implemented in the ESRP.
6.        Prolect Results.
6.01      The project was successful in meeting its primary objectives of
augmenting and improving reliability of electricity supply to Bujumbura
and its environs, by providing transmission and distribution facilities to
receive additional power from Ruzizi II and serving additional consumers.
Most physical components were completed with delays but within cost
estimates.  Objectives related to REGIDESO improving its management and
financial performance were largely unmet: implementation experience has
shown little early evidence of the Government and REGIDESO's commitment to
these goals. This however has now changed, and the Government has shown
greater commitment to structural adjustment and public enterprise reform.
The Government and REGIDESO signed a Performance Contract in 1989, which
is being successfully implemented. A financial restructuring package for
the utility is also being put in place and implemented under the ESRP.
Use of improved charcoal cooking stoves have yielded energy savings as
both private sector stove manufacturers and consumers have adopted the new
technology.  REGIDESO staff received limited training due to delays in
constructing the training center, but technical operations have been
satisfactory.
6.02      Physical Results.  The additional HV transmission capaicity and
extension of the power network into unserved areas were to be complemented
by adding about 2,500 new connections in Bujumbura in 1986 and 1987 for a
total estimated annual consumption of 8.2 GWh. The 30KV extensions in the
Cibitoke and Bubanza regions were to satisfy demand estimated in 1988 at
5.0 GWh. While data exist for REGIDESO's annual overall new connections
and power consumption, none are available for the project area, making it
impossible to determine whether the specific targets cited above were
achieved. It is certain that the objective of 2,500 new connections was
not met in 1986-87, since total new electricity connections for those
years were only 1,558. This was in part due to late implementation of the
low-cost connection policy (para. 5.08) which was to increase
affordability in the lower income areas of the project.
6.03      Economic and Financial Impact.  The SAR calculated the economic
rates of return for (1) the Bubanza and Cibitoke Substations and
transmission/ distribution for regional towns at: Cibitoke group 11%,
Bubanza group 10%, Gatumba group 9%; and (2) low-income districts of
Bujumbura 6%, excluding consumer surplus and the savings on imported
diesel oil and kerosene. Data to enable estimates of the actual economic
rates of return are not available. Financial rates of return, as provided
by REGIDESO and found acceptable by the Bank, are of 9.84% and 22.14% for
Ruzizi II - Bubanza transmission line and low-income districts of
Bujumbura respectively, (see Part III, para. 6.A. for underlying
assumptions). Since these calculations exclude consumer surplus and the
substitution of kerosene, economic rates of return should be higher.
6.04      Financial Performance of REGIDESO.   The project provided for
monitoring of financial performance of the electricity operations of
REGIDESO and to this end, required that REGIDESO prepare separate accounts
3/ Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, Report No. 9215-BU dated
January 1992.



for water and electricity operations. However, REGIDESO did not prepare
separate accounts, so that data is not available to calculate ratios for
cash generation and debt. The reason given for this was the lack of an
analytical accounting system. In cases of multi-product companies, the
monitoring of only part of a company's operations may lead to incomplete
solutions to problems and create an untrue view of financial soundness.
Measures to achieve financial soundness and improve financial management
are more effective if they treat the company as a whole. This approach
has been adopted for the follow-up Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project.
REGIDESO is currently providing separate accounts for water and
electricity activity.   Summary financial  statements for the project
execution period as well as projected statements for electricity
operations prepared for the SAR are given in ANNEX 1.
6.05      REGIDESO's accounting system and controls were determined at the
time of project preparation to be deficient and gave rise to the
recommendation for financial management and accounting system reform as
the highest priority under the management strengthening component.  In
spite of assistance to improve the reliability of accounting data (para.
5.12) and a proposal that REGIDESO's auditors intervene in mid-1987 to
improve accounting controls, the auditors have been unable to issue an
opinion on the accounts from 1986 to 1990, as data was deemed unreliable
due to lack of rigor, imprecision in the definition and application of
certain accounting principles and the inability to reconcile data for the
capital works account, inventory, revenues and expenses. Under the ESRP,
REGIDESO has taken steps to correct the above sistuation.   A sound
accounting system is now in place.
6.06      Electricity Pricina.  As noted in paragraph 4.03, increases in
electricity rates were considered key to improving REGIDESO's financial
performance. The rate increase of 30% recommended as a condition of Board
presentation wae only partially implemented (20% increase, February 1985).
REGIDESO requested, and the Bank agreed, that an additional increase would
be put into effect when the study to revise the structure of electricity
rates was completed. This study was completed in June 1985, but REGIDESO
did not accept the resulte and therefore did not adjust its rates.
Adjustments were proposed by the Bank for 1986-89 (30%, 25%, 25%, 30%
respectively) based primarily on the rate of return covenant for the
project. Increases were approved by the Government in mid-1986, 1988 and
1989 (26%, 12.5%, 11% LV/8% MV respectively), but these were considerably
less than the increases needed to meet financial performance objectives.
Inadequate rate increases coupled with rising operating costs and debt
service led to deterioration in REGIDESO's financial situation. At end-
1989, a satisfactory study of the power rate structure was finally
completed  by  an  independent  consultant.    Rate  adjustments  were
incorporated into the dialogue on enterprise reform and improved macro-
economic management.   In mid-1990, the Government adjusted the medium
voltage rate in line with its long-run marginal cost and increased low
voltage rates by 19.4%. The next rate increase which would bring LV rates
in line with LRMC is expected to be approved before the end of 1992.
Placing the electricity issue in the broader economic arena has thus been
very effective. Where energy pricing is a politically sensitive issue, it
may be more effective to link conditionality to up-front measures and if
necessary, to the economic policy dialogue.   In investment operations
incentives to perform tend to diminish once the major components are
implemented.
7.        Sustainability.
7.01      Lack of progress in the early stages of the project were
corrected later and and formed the basis for the preparation of the ESRP.
Substantial project benefits have resulted from consumers' increased
access to electricity in regional towns and six districts in Bujumbura and
from  the  new  household  connection  policy.    The  project  has  also



-9-
contributed to reduced consumption of'charcoal and therefore to slower
destruction of forests.  Progress is now well underway in the areas of
strengthening REGIDESO management and financial performance through the
ESRP.
7.02      In order to sustain the benefits, REGIDESO and the Government
should continue to monitor institutional development, with the objective
of improving and expanding utility services and implementing sound
commercial  and  financial policies.       The benefits  of the  improved
cookstove dissemination program will be increased through provision of
training to more private sector artisans and establishment of a more
effective commercialization process.   This is also supported by the
ongoing ESRP.
8.        Bank Performance.
8.01      The Bank performed well on the construction aspects of the
project.  The Bank also demonstrated flexibility in accepting to modify
the Credit in line with the actual developments, although some of the
additional amendments to use undisbursed funds, were not finalized.
However, the Bank should have insisted on up-front measures for improving
REGIDESO's management and invoked the appropriate remedies when pricing
and financial covenants were not met. The Bank should have also helped
Burundi and Zaire solve the issue related to SNEL's ownership of the 70 kv
transmission line before project implementation.
8.02       The Bank should have paid greater attention in the design of
the project to the connection policies needed to realize the benefits of
the network extensions.  Given the importance of a low-cost connection
policy to the success and sustainability of the project, more effort
should have been made to ensure that the policy was formulated and
implemented early in the project execution period, as originally
envisaged.
8.03      In spite of agreed objectives for establishing the level and
structure of electricity rates, concerns other than REGIDESO's financial
soundness were determining electricity prices.   The Bank should have
applied the remedies at its disposal when agreed conditions pertaining to
pricing and financial performance were not fulfilled.
9.        Borrower's Performance.
9.01      REGIDESO was the project's implementing agency for the Borrower
(Government of Burundi) responsible for execution of the electricity
components of the project. REGIDESO's performed well with regard to the
construction aspects of the project. With regard to improved management,
particularly in the area of finance and accounting, the commitment to the
objectives was weak and during project implementation, REGIDESO's
performance deteriorated significantly. Energy losses climbed from about
10% to about 20%. Receivables on Government's accounts increased from 6.3
months of sales in 1985 to 17.8 in 1989. The Government resisted raising
electricity tariffs and, as the only shareholder, accepted unsatisfactory
accounting and management practices.  This situation changed in later
stages of the project and REGIDESO and the Government are fully committed
to implement the objectives of the new ESRP.
9.02      REGIDESO was  responsible  for  managing  the  consultants  it
employed and while their performance was not fully satisfied, their
contract was renewed.  REGIDESO terminated their employment only under
strong pressure from the Bank.  Given the commercial value of a sound
connection policy and its importance for meeting the Government's
objective of greater access to electricity, REGIDESO should have made a



- 10 -
greater effort to devise the low cost-connection policy early in the
project execution period.
9.03      Rehabilitation of the SNEL-owned transmission line and Bujumbura
substation in order to ensure reliable supply to Burundi was a well-known
issue at the time the Ruzizi II project was evaluated. Had the issue been
raised at that time, it might have been settled in the context of regional
cooperation, with the assistance of the Bank. Given the critical role the
line and substation play in supplying power to Burundi's major population
centers, more attention should have been given to a satisfactory solution
early in the project preparation period, rather than during project
execution.
9.04      The Government had an effective role in the technological
development and the dissemination of improved cookstoves, but direct
employment of artisans was not an appropriate approach.   In the early
stages, the Government could have provided the incentives and/or seek
capital to encourage more involvement of the private sector and funded
only the promotional campaign to encourage consumer use.   Once the stove
technology was determined to be sound and attractive to consumers, the
private sector should have taken over.
10.       Prolect RelationshiDs.
10.01     The relationship between REGIDESO and the Bank was characterized
in the early stages by delays in submitting to the Bank various documents
related to procurements of consultant services and extension of contracts.
However, it improved later and at the end of the implementation period
both parties reached understandings that are likely to improve procurement
practices under the ESRP.
10.02     Following the  failure of the  first management  improvement
program, the Bank took the lead in obtaining a consensus among REGIDESO's
main donors on needed institutional reforms and their implementation.
This gave rise to the REGIDESO Rehabilitation Program, which is supported
by the Energy  Sector Rehabilitation  Project.    Joint  missions  were
undertaken with the CCCE which is the other main donor in the power sector
in Burundi, and agreed approaches have been implemented.
11.       Consultina Services.
11.01     The project was prepared by an international engineering firm
with extensive experience in the region, which also supervised
construction. Performance was satisfactory. The same firm also carried
out studies on the power rate structure and a long-term development plan.
Recommendations of the first study were not accepted by REGIDESO.  The
Bank did not accept the recommendations of either studies and no final
payments were made in accordance with the contracts.
11.02     Performance of consultants for management assistance was mixed,
but this was more related to how REGIDESO employed them rather than to
their competency.
12.       Proiect Documentation and Data.
12.01     The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful framework for the
construction aspects of the project, but could have been more explicit on
the objectives of management strengthening for REGIDESO.
12.02     Information  pertaining  to  the  early  stages  of  project
preparation and some key internal documents were lacking in the Bank's
archives. Audit reports were received with delays throughout the project
implementation.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
PART I I   PROJECT RESVIEW FROM THE BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Prolect Oblectives and DescriDtion
1.01 Project objectives
The main objective of the project was to improve electricity supply
to the Bujumbura region and extend the network into areas not yet electrified.
Project works will augment the supply of energy (greater reliability), and expand
access to electricity for consumers either in districts of Bujumbura with low
electricity coverage or in rural areas not yet electrified (Bubanza, Cibitoke,
Muzinda, Mpanda, Katumba, etc.). The program will help reduce consumption of
kerosene and to a less extent charcoal. After completion of the electrification
program for the outlying districts of Bujumbura, REGIDESO offered its new clients
inexpensive portable electric stoves (two burners) (FBu 7,070 each).
The expansion of the distribution network in rural areas made it
possible to reduce consumption of diesel oil and gasoline used to generate
production of electricity by the communities (schools, hospitals, churches,
etc.), and the permanent availability of a sure source of energy made possible
the establishment of several workshops in those areas (electric-powered mills,
carpentry and welding workshops, in particular).
In addition, the provision of technical assistance to REGIDESO,
construction of a training center and training of REGIDESO staff were designed
to improve its financial results of operation and the services rendered the
company.
1.02 Project description
The description of the project in Part I is correct, although a 15-kV
line was not built for Katumba (1.b) because the line already existed to supply
the Zairian city of Uvira from Bujumbura. REGIDESO merely built a distribution
network in the village of Katumba by installing MV/LV stations as well as the LV
distribution network.
In addition, under consultant services, the Credit financed two
institutional studies, namely:
-     an electricity pricing study
-     a study of the Burundi master electrification plan.
2.          Proiect Execution
2.01 SNEL transmission line and substation
The Credit provided US$320,000 for the rehabilitation of the 70-kV
line and the 70/6.6-kV station. The Bank and REGIDESO agreed that utilization
of such an amount would require the agreement of SNEL. For various reasons, in
particular the frequent turnover in SNEL senior staff, no agreement was reached
between the parties.  Now that SNEL plans to build a 70/30-kV station near
Gihungwa 30 km from Bujumbura to supply Kiliba and Uvira, REGIDESO would like to
rehabilitate the section of line between Gihungwe and Bujumbura as well as the
receiving station in Bujumbura, in agreement with SNEL. It is still understood
that SNEL is not to renege on its previous obligations vis-a-vis REGIDESO and the



- 12 -
Government of Burundi, which include proper maintenance of SNEL equipment to
supply electricity to Bujumbura.
2.02 Strengthening of REGIDESO
The selection of a consultant war not easy for REGIDESO because it
had very little expertise in the matter at the time. The consultant selected did
therefore not receive adequate support and its first reports were not
satisfactory.
The diagnostic study submitted by the PA Conseil consultants in April
1985  contained  several  gaps  and  inconsistencies.    The  study was  widely
disseminated among REGIDESO higher-level staff and their comments submitted to
the consultant, but they do not seem to have been taken into account.
ostensibly seeking to increase its effectiveness, the coneultant
asked that its experts be brought into high-level positions in the REGIDESO
hierarchy in order to monitor the implementation of its plan. The result was not
any more  conclusive.   This  failure  is apparently due to the  inadequate
capabilities of the experts sent by the consultant.
2.03 Stove dissemination program
The program was misdirected from the outset.   Because it was
partially subsidized by the Government, in particular as regards the collection
of raw materials, the transfer of the program to the artisans could not continue
becauee of the relatively high cost of each stove in comparison to the
traditional model used in the towns.
3.          Proiect Outcomes
3.01 The project succeeded in achieving its primary objectives, in
particular the commissioning of the new facilities on schedule.  The delays
experienced during contract effectiveness were sometimes resolved.
As for the objectives involving an improvement in REGIDESO
electricity services, it is fair to say that they were nevertheless largely
achieved.   In point of fact, the inhabitants of the outlying districts of
Bujumbura, who had complained of a chronic lack of electricity, were satisfied
and the cost per subscriber connection was reduced by some 40% by eliminating
expenditures for network expansion.
As regards an improvement in financial results, the objective was not
achieved because at the time REGIDESO had little expertise in that area.
Moreover, it did not receive the necessary support from the government or the
donors involved in the program.
Fortunately, a new program was launched in 1989 and the initial
results are satisfactory.
3.02 Physical outcomes
Data on the new connections in newly electrified districts and
centers are available from REGIDESO's Commercial Directorate.   However, the
target of 2,500 new connections in 1986/1987 could not be achieved because the
physical infrastructure (distribution networks) was not completed until 1988.



- 13 -
3.03 Electricity pricing
REGIDESO did its utmost to honor its commitments as regards
increasing electricity tariffs, but these had to be approved by the Government,
which was reluctant to make closely spaced rate increases because of the
anticipated negative reaction this would have caused among the public at large.
In addition, the Bank's view that major rate increases were the sole way to put
REGIDESO on sound financial footing was not realistic.  The current approach
based on economic and financial analysis of projects and negotiation with the
Government to write off the debt for projects that are not viable propositions
seems more appropriate to us.
4.          Bank Performance
The Government and REGIDESO appreciated the flexibility demonstrated
by the World Bank in agreeing to modify the disbursement conditions in response
to actual needs regarding foreign exchange. In general, the conditions of 90%
financing by the Bank and 10% by the Borrower did not always take into account
the invoicing by contractors and their needs for foreign exchange and local
currency. When necessary, the Bank and Borrower should reconcile disbursement
conditions, as was done in this case.
Nevertheless, it is not necessary to take drastic steps such as
suspension of the credit in the event of non-compliance with certain points in
the agreements.  Rather, arrangements satisfactory to all parties should be
sought  together  with  the  Borrower,  in  the  interests  of  smooth  project
development.
Above all, the Bank must promote dialogue with the Borrower and not
necessarily trust the various consultants, who are not generally bound by
satisfactory results.
5.          Borrower Performance
The Government and REGIDESO had a strong interest in improving
management, but as stressed earlier, the consultant's experts were not up to
their tasks and REGIDESO did not have personnel with the appropriate expertise
to monitor the performance of the experts.
We would also stress that the Bank should have given REGIDESO greater
support in directing the work of the consultant and ensuring monitoring.



-14-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.       Rotated IDA Credits
Credit               Project Title                           Approval                       Purpose                               Status
Number                                                          Date
1049-BU      Urban Development Project                       06/24/80  Correction of urgent deficiencies in                  Coepleted
the capital city and establishing a basis
for more efficient future growth through
basic infrastructure nd housing loans to
7 Bujumbura neighborhoods, constructfon of
3 primary schools, improvements to sotid
Haste collection and promotion of artisans
including metalworkers who were introduced
to new techniques for producing more
efficient charcoal-burning stoves.
1419-gU      Ruzizi II Regionat Hydroelectric                 12/06/83  Construction of the Ruzizi II facilities             Compteted -
Project                                                    with initial installed capacity of 27 MW    Project Completion
and creation of the multinational public           Report issued
enterprise, the Societd Internationala              in April 26, 1992
d'ELectricit6 des Pays des Grands Lacs to
construct and operate the plant.
1795-BU      Economic and Pub ic Enterprise                  05/14/87  Technical assistance to (1) launch                     Under
operations of the MationaL Service in                execution;
charge of public enterprises, (2) develop            closing date
planning and project appraisal capacity             December 31,
and (3) strengthen capacity to prepare the   1992.
pubtic investment program.
2230-BU      Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project             04/25/91  Promotion of rational energy policies and   Credit declared
strengthening management of energy sector   effective on
resources through services for institution  December 4, 1991
buiLding (REGIDESO and DGHER), biomass and
household energy program, a rural electrifi-
cation Master Plan and through doubling of
the 110 kV transmission line from Bubanza
to Bujumbura and an intensive program of new
connections.
2.    Project Timetable
Planned                         Actual
Identification                          1/                      6/00/82 -  8/00/82
Pre-Appraisal Mission   00/00/00                                 7/26/83 -  7/30/83
Appraisal Mission                     06/84 - 7/84    6/24/84 -  7/14/84
Post-Appraisal Mission                       -                 11/20/84 -  11/23/84
Credit Negotiation                    01/00/85                      4/11/85
Board Approval                        04/00/85                      5/09/85
Credit Signature                      06/00/85                      6/14/85
Credit Effectiveness    09/14/85                                    7/11/86
1/ Identification and preparation took place under the Ruzizi IX
Regional Hydroelectric Project which initially included the
complementary works in Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire that gave rise to the
Burundi Transmission and Distribution Project, the Rwanda Power Project
(CR. 1495-RW) and the Zaire Power II Project (CR. 1712-ZR).



- 15 -
Project Completion       06/30/89           08/31/91
Credit Closing           12/31/89           12/31/91
3.    Credit Disbursements (USs millions)
Bank FY
1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991    1992
Appraisal Estimates    2.0  8.0 10.3 11.9 12.3 12.3    12.3
Actual                  0.0  2.7  6.9 10.1 10.7 10.8
Actual as % of Est.      0%  34%  67%  85%  87%  88%          1/
Date of Final Disbursement:
1/ As of May 30, 1992, there is an outstanding balance of
SDR4,289,214.62 which does not include refunding of a portion of the
Special Account.
4.    Project Implementation
A. Project Monitoring
Planned     Actual
Ruzizi II - Bubanza Transmission Line
Issue of Tender Documents        6/30/85    04/10/86
Receipt of Tenders                 NA       06/18/86
Contract Award                  12/31/85    11/26/86
Commissioning                    6/30/87    9/88
Bubanza and Cibitoke
Substations
Issue of Tender Documents      06/30/85    04/10/00
Receipt of Tenders                 NA       06/18/86
Contract Award                  12/31/85    11/26/86
Works in Progress               12/86-6/88  12/86 - 10/88
Connections in Bujumbura and Gatumba
Issue of Tender Documents       06/30/85    04/10/86
Receipt of Tenders                 NA       06/18/86
Contract Award                  12/31/85    11/26/86
Works in Progress               12/85-12/88 11/86 - 12/88
Training Center Construction
Issue of Tender Documents      06/30/85    00/00/00
Receipt of Tenders                 NA       08/26/88
Contract Award                  12/31/85    05/17/90
Works in Progress               12/85-12/91 12/91



B. Performance Targets
1985                    1986                    1987                    1988                      1989                       1990
Target       Actual       Tarset  Actual             Target  Actual         Target   Actual            Target  Actual           Target    Actual
Losses (X)                         16        10.6           15        10.8           14         14.4         13         15.6            -        20.9              -        19.5
Connections per Employee           18        19             20        17             23         18           25         20              -        22                -        23
Receivables (months of sales)
Govt.                      -        6.3 "'         6          6.3           4           8.3          4         19.8            4        17.8              4         8.9
Non-govt.                                          4                       4/3 2'                    4         8.8             4        10.6              4
Rate of Return                      -         -              4        -0.1            4          1.4          4.5       -1.3            6.5       1.0              8        -0.3
Working Ratio2'                      .58       .98            .46      1.01            .42       .87           .37       1.15            -         1.14            -          1.06
Debt Service                        -         -               1.5     NA               1.5       NA           1.5        1.37           1.5      -1.12              1.5       1.17     co
Sources: Staff Appraisal Reports 5312-BU, 9068-BU; Project Agreement; REGIDESO Audited Accounts
Note:    SAR 5312-BU and the Project Agreement for Credit 1593-EU express financial targets in terms of electricity operations only.  AS REGIDESO  did not prepare
separate accounts for water and electricity operations, the actual indicators are calculated for joint water and electrically operations.
1/ Separate data for government and non-goverrment billings and arrears were only available for 1988 and 1989.
2/ Four months' billing for clients billed on a bi-monthly basis and 3 months' billing for clients billed every month.
3/ The ratio of operating expenses before depreciation to operating revenues.  This was erroneously titled "operating ratio" in SAR 5312-BU.



- 17 -
5.      Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(USS millions)
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Local    For.Ex. Total             Local    For.Ex. Total
rnCItC   rir@tc   rnct             r-tcw    r-tc   rnct
Transmission and
Distribution
110 kV Line              0.90    3.70    4.60                0.22    2.22    2.44
Bubanza Station          0.65    1.1       1.75              0.76    3.42    4.18
Cibitoke Station         0.4      0.5      0.95              0.30    1.00      1.30
30kV Sub-trans.
line                    0.3      1.0      1.30
Dist. networks for
7 towns                0.15    0.55    0.70                0.15    0.55      1.30
Dist. in 6 Bujumbura
neighborhoods          0.78    3.10    3.88                0.50    3.19    3.69
Engineering. TA.
Training
Engineering Services   0.16    0.90    1.06                 -        1.11     1.11
Management Assistance  0.18    1.00    1.18                 0.18    1.00    1.18
Studies                 0.02    0.20    0.22                0.02    0.20    0.22
Train'ing               0.23     1.40    1.63               0.23     1.40     1.63
Petroleum Adviser       0.01    0.10    0.11                0.01     0.10    0.11
Stove Dissem. Program  0.07    0.10    0.17                 0.07    0.10    0.17
Base Costs                3.80   13.75   17.55                2.44    14.29   16.73
Contingencies             0.95    3.30    4.25                0.33    2.46    2.79
TOTAL COSTS               4.75    17.05    21.80              2.77    16.75   19.52
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report No. 5312-BU REGIDESO
B. Financing Plan
(USS miLlions)
Appraisal Estimate                                           Actual
Local          Foreign       Total                        Local  Foreign    Total
IDA              1.85             10.45     12.30                     1.09        10.89      11.98
Belgium            .30              1.20      1.50                      -           -          -
CCCE               .40             4.60       5.00                    0.50         6.18       6.68
GTZ               -                  .80       .80                      -           -          -
REGIDESO          2.15                -       2.15                    2.26          -         2.26
Goverrunent        .50               .50      1.00                    1.14          -         1.14
Total            4.75             17.05    21.80                      4.99        17.07       22.06



- 18 -
6.      Project ResuLts
A. Economic liract
Data to enable us to calculate the actual economic rates of return are not available.
Financial rates of return, as provided by REGIDESO and found acceptable by the Bank, are of 9.84%
and 22.14% for Ruzizi 11 - Bubanza transmission tine and Low-income districts of Bujumbura
respectively. Since these calculations exclude consumer surplus and the substitution of kerosene,
economic rates of return should be higher. The underlying assumptions are:
(a)     The caLculations are based on 1988 prices which have been updated to 1991 prices using the
unit values of exports of manufactured goods from developed countries.
(b)     The energy losses are estimated at 2% for high voltage (NV) and 10% for low voltage (LV)
for Ruzizi Il-Bubanza line.
(c)     The total investment cost is estimated at FBu 1,341,034,000 for Ruzizi Il-Bubanza line and
FBu 367,502,963 for the LIDB.
(d)     An average tariff of FBu 16,60 has been used throughout year 2015 for Ruzizi Il-Bubanza
while a 15% increase every 2 years has been assumed for tariff to be applied to the LIDB.
(e)     Depreciation rate for 3% and 1.14% have been assumed for the LIDB and Ruzizi II-Bubanza
line respectively.
B. Financial Impact
Financial projections prepared for Staff Appraisal Report No. 5312-BU yielded the following
outcome for REGIDESO electricity operations. Projections were based on rate increases to produce an
increasing rate of return and increasing internal cash generation adequate to support financing for
REGIDESO's projected investment program.
1985          1986        1987         1988       1989
% rate increase                              20            33           23           15         15
Operating revenues                          833.1        1386.6       1787.3       2264.1     3006.9
(BuF million)
ROR on revalued assets (X)                    3.8           4.5          4.0          4.8        6.6
Contribution to Construction (%)              3.9          16.7         37.8         70.0       36.7
Debt Service Coverage                          1.5          2.5          2.4          2.6        2.0
Debt/Debit & Equity                          59.2          57.7         56.1         55.3       51.5
yOperating Ratio                             87            70           70           70         65
Current Ratio                                  1.4          1.1          1.8          1.9        2.1
Actual rate increases and operating revenue were as follows:
1985         1986         1987         1988       1989
% rate increaseY'                            20            26            -           12.5   MV 11
LV 8
Operating Revenues                         1077          1287         1542         1590       1812
(BuF million)
Unless otherwise indicated, adjustments represent average rate increases.
CalcuLation of a rate of return on fixed assets and other financial ratios pertaining to eLectricity
operations is not possible since REGIDESO did not prepare the required separate accounts for electricity and
water operations. Actual financial indicators for the company as a whole appear in Table 4B of Part III.



- 19 -
7.      Status of Covenants
Covenant                                              AppLicable             Remarks
Section
The Government would ensure that REGIDESO would be            CA 4.01                ComPlied. REGIDESO did
provided with funds necessary to meet construction                                   obtain Govermnent funds for
costs of the Project; such funds to be repaid by                                     conistruction under the
REGIDESO within 4 years.                                                             Project
Employment by 12/31/85 of an advisor to the                   CA 4.02                Non-compliance.  No advisor
minister responsible for energy to assist in                                         was selected.
formulating strategies for importing petroleum
products at least cost, to develop sound pricing
policies for the domestic marketing of such
products and to train staff of the Ministry;
advisor and TOR to be acceptable to IDA.
Standard clauses relating to procurement,                     PA 2.02, PA            CompLied.
insurance, record keeping, and exchange of views              2.03
with IDA.                                                     PA 2.05
REGIDESO to perform all its obligations under the             PA 2.04                Non-comoliance:  As per our
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.                                                           review in June 1992 this is,
however, being taken care of
in the financial
restructuring package
currently under preparation.
REGIDESO to employ engineering consultants to                 PA 2.06                ComPlied.
assist in carrying out Part A of the Project.
REGIDESO to employ by 12/31/85, a management                  PA 2.07                Comglied.
assistance team to carry out Part 9.1 of the
Project and the plan of action described in
Section 6.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement.
REGIDESO to employ by 10/1/85 a Training Manager              PA 2.08                Complied:  Training
and 3 training specialists with counterparts, all                                    Specialists and Managers are
with TOR satisfactory to IDA.  A training program                                    being currently used by
for electricity department, financiaL and                                            Regideso at the Training
achinistrative personnel satisfactory to IDA was                                     Center.
to be initiated by 9/1/86.
REGIDESO to complete a connection study by 6/30/86            PA 2.09                ComPlied:  The study was
and, 3 months after its completion, exchange views                                   completed and a low-cost
with the Goverrnent and IDA on recommendations of                                    connection policy is being
the study followed by implementation of the                                          implemented as of June 1992.
recommendations.
REGIDESO to maintain records and accounts in                  PA 4.01(b)             Partial-ComPliance
accordance with sound accounting practices and                                       Reports were received with
submit audited financial statements to IDA 6                                         delays beginning in 1986,
months after the end of each financiaL year                                          however, the audit firm has
beginning in 1986.                                                                   issued a denial of opinion
through 1990. In 1991, the
Auditors recommendations were
impLemented for 1990 audited
accounts.
For expenditures with respect to withdrawals                  PA 4.01(c)             ComPlied. REGIDESO does not
requested on the basis of statements of                                              employ statements of
expenditure, REGIDESO would maintain separate                                        expenditure
accounts for such expenditures, retain all
documentation for one year after the Credit
closing date and ensure that the accounts were the
subject of a separate opinion by its auditor.



- 20 -
REGIDESO to maintain a separate account for its                PA 4.02                Partial-compIliance.  Accounts
electricity and water operations incorporating                                        are now maintened separately
anruaL revaluation of its fixed assets in service                                     for electricity and water.
at the end of each fiscal year in accordance with                                     However, incorporation of
sound and consistently applied methods of                                             revalued assets could be
valuation satisfactory to IDA.                                                        delayed for a few years until
Regideso reaches full
financial recovery, as the
revaLuation offsets benefits
of the restructuring
measures.
REGIDESO to establish by 6/30/86, a ten-year                   PA 4.03(a)             Comnlied:  In April, 1992.
Least-cost development program of capital
investments in the electricity sector and exchange
views with IDA.
REGIDESO will consult with IDA on investments over             PA 4.03(b)             Partial compliance.  An
USS5 million and ensure that every investment in                                      Energy Sector PIP for 1993-
the electricity sector be economicalLy and                                            1995 was agreed upon with the
financially justified.                                                                Bank in June 1992.  Economic
justification will sent to
the Bank by end of December
1992.
REGIDESO to establish and make effective by                    PA 4.04                Conmliance.  Tariffs were
1/1/86, a new tariff structure for eLectricity                                        increased as agreed upon; new
taking into account marginaL costs, cross-                                            tariff structure was
subsidization and extension of services to lower                                      impplemented.  Tariffs will
income groups; new structure to be satisfactory to                                    again be increased by July
IDA.                                                                                  31, 1992.
REGIDESO to take all measures necessary to achieve             PA 4.05(a)             Non-Comnliance.  However,
rates of return on fixed assets in operation of 4%                                    under the financiaL
in 1986-87, 4.5% in 1988, 6.5% in 1989 and 8% for                                     restructuring package to be
1990 and thereafter.                                                                  adopted, Regideso will comply
with this.
Before September 30 of each fiscal year, REGIDESO              PA 4.05(b)             Partial coavLiance.   Results
to review the adequacy of its tariffs to achieve                                      were furnished to IDA in
the rate or return required under 4.05(a) and                                         March 1992, the Goverrvnent
furnish the results to IDA.                                                           has informed that it will be
implemented by July 31, 1992.
In respect of its water operations, REGIDESO to                PA 4.06(a)             Comnliance.  In June 1992.
take all measures necessary to produce funds to
make a reasonabLe contribution to the average of
its capital expenditures for the proceeding,
current and forthcoming years.
Before September 30 of each year, REGIDESO to                  PA 4.06(b)             ConyLied.  As per our review
review the adequacy of its tariffs to achieve the                                     of Regideso accounts in June
contribution to capital expenditures required                                         1992.
under 4.06(a) and furnish the review to IDA.
REGIDESO not to incur debt unless its internal                 PA 4.07                Comnlied.  As per our review
cash generation is equal to or exceeds 1.5 times                                      of Rejideso accounts in June
the estimated maximum debt service requirement for                                    1992.
any succeeding fiscal year.
REGIDESO to Limit its receivables for electricity              PA 4.08                Non-comoliance.  The
services except those from Goverrment and                                             Goverrnent was abLe to reduce
municipalities: (a) to 4 months' billings, by the                                     its receivables to a level of
end of 1985, (b) for clients billed each month, to                                    6 month billings through
3 months' billings, and those billed every two                                        1986, but made payments
months, to 4 months billings at the end of 1986                                       irregularly thereafter.
and thereafter.   Receivables from Goverrnment and
municipalities to be reduced to 6 months' billings
by the end of 1986 and 4 months' billings by the
end of 1987 and thereafter.



-21-
8.      Use of Bank Resources
FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89            FY90    FY91   FY92
Preappraisal                       NA       NA       5.9
Appraisal                                            4.6    56.3
Negotiations                                                  3.0
Supervision                                                   0.1      9.0      6.6     14.2     13.3      8.3      2.1
Project Conpletion Report
Total                            -- tI    59.4                       9.0      6.6      W:       WI                2
9.       Mission Data
Stages of              Month/  No. of    Days in Specialization   Performance           Types of
Project CycLe          Year    Persons    FieLd   Represented/a    Rating Status/b Problems/c
Through Aowraisat
Identification        10/82        NA        NA          NA                  NA              NA
Preparation             7/83        2         5          FA,EC               NA              NA
Pre-Appraisal          10/83        2         3          FA, CON             NA              NA
Appraisal             6-7/84        5        17          PE,FA,CON           NA              NA
Post-Appraisal        11/84         2         4          PE                  NA              NA
Supervision
Supervision 1          7/85         2         3          PE,FA                 1             F,h
Supervision 2          7/86         3         3          PE,FA,EC              1             F,M
Supervision 3          8/87         1         2          PE                   2              F,M,T
Supervision 4          10/87        1        11          FA                   2              F,M,T
Supervision 5           2/88        1         7          PE                   2              F,M,T
Supervision 6          3/88         1         5          FA                   2              F,N
Supervision 7          5/88         1        10          EC                    2             F,M,T
Supervision 8         11/88         1         8          PE                   2              F,M,T
Supervision 9         4-5/89        1        16          EC                   2              F,M,T
Supervision 10        10/89         2         8          EC,FA                2              F,M,T
Supervision 11        2-3/90        3        21          EC,FA,PE             2              F,M,T
Supervision 11         4/90         1         2          HE                   NA             T
Supervision 12         6/91         1        NA          EC,FA,HE             2 d/           F,M,T
/a  PE = Power Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; EC * Economist; HE = HousehoLd Energy Specialist; CON   Consultant
/b  1   Minor or no problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 32 Major problems
/c  F = Financial problems; T * Technical problems; M   Managerial problems
/_ as reported in the Form 590 from the supervision missions.



- 22 -
4N NEX  1
*Paze 1 of 6
REGIE DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU ET D'ELECTRICITE
AUDITED BALANCE SHEET 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990
(BuF MILLIONS)
1985          1986         1987          1988         1989         1990
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Electricity                                     5408         8085          8532        11325        12115        12299
Water                                            1075         2088         3207         3670         3813         3987
Cowmmn                                           499         4919          6460         6830         7443         8511
Cumulative DepreciatIon                      -1332        -1747         -2413        -3203        -4145        -5234
Net Fixed Assets                              5650        13345         15786        18622        19226        19563
Work in Progress                                   7251         2000         1811          528          314         3977
Other L/T Assets                                    242          287          304          315          905          991
Short-Term Assets
Receivables                                       569          675         1061         1533         1355         1663
Inventory                                        308          380          458           605          972         1009
Cash and Banks                                   311          480           584          839         1448         1629
Other                                              70           44         2511         5050         8340         5084
Total S/T Assets                              1258         1579         4614          8027        12115         9385
TOTAL ASSETS                                      14401        17211        22515        27492        32560        33916
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                                          303         4940          4940         4982         6623         7407
Reserves                                         905             0            0            0            0          932
Retained Earnings                                -969         -111        -2872        -6233        -9536        -7240
Total Equity                                     239         4829          2068        -1251        -2913         1099
Equipment Subsidies                                1236            0          193          384          866         1542
Provisions                                           85           99         2532         5039         7868         4685
Other L/T Liabilities                                 0            0         2513         5027         7853         4679
Long-Term Debt                                    12112        11069        13823        15672        16480        17878
Short Term Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                   37          173          159          505          365         1035
State                                             586          887         1152         2030         1717         2806
Other S/T Assets                                  106          153           75           86          324          192
Total S/T Liabilities                          729          1213         1386         2621         2406         4033
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                 14401        1 7210       22515        27492        32560        33916



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
REGIE DE DISTRIBUTION D'EAU ET D'ELECTRICITE
AUDITED OPERATING ACCOUNT (1985-1990)
(BuF MILLIONS)
1985           1986            1987           1988            1989            1990
REVENUES
Electric & Water                1077           1287            1542           1590            1812            2250
Revenues
Government Subsidy               0              9               1              0             141             247
Internal Works                110             177             210            122             410             237
Other                          129            355             146            271             546            3755
Total Revenue                 1316           1828            1899           1983            2909            6489
EXPENSES
SaLaries                      309             372             433            467             507             597
Consumed Goods &              442             530             378            387             596             910
Services
Taxes                           10             16               5              6              22              27
Other Expenses                  55            149              49            310              89             172
Depreciation                  342             415             665            791             963            1095
TotaL Expenses                1158           1482            1530           1961            2177            2801
Operating Income               158            346             369             22             732            3688
Interest and                    380             425             658            861             937             895
Commissions
Provisions                         3              19             27           2506            3075             478
Net Income                    -225            -98            -316          -3345           -3280            2315
Profit Tax                        11              13             15              16              19             23
Income after Taxes           -236            -111            -331          -3361           -3299            2292



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
RECIDESO Forecast Income Stateeents 3984 - 3993 for Electricity Operation.
1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991     1992
soles (Gih)  -                       67.1      74.6      82.8      92.1    104.3    116*2    128.9    141.9    156.3
Electricity tariff
-average - BuF/kVb                   7.8       9.3      12.4      15.2      17.5      20.1      21.8      25.0      28.5
RVENUES
lRvenoe from soles              523.4    679.9   1026.7   1399.9   1825.2   2335.6   2810.0   3547.5   4454.6
H ters, connections. works   127.0    185.2    341.9    387.4    438.9    671.3    760.6    861.8   1031.6
TOTAL REVENUE                 650.4    833.1   1368.6   1787.3   2264.1   3006.9   3570.6   4409.3   5486.2
EXPENSss
Salartes                        126.6    132.9    146.2    157.9    170.5    184.1    198.8    214.7    231.9
Purchas  of electricity           -         8.1      24.0      70.2      78.4      83.5      87.9    309.9    632.5
Hat rial'd                      298.9    371.8    438.8    509.1    595.9    691.9    801.6    925.2   1067.9
Other expenses                   21.2      25.1      28.0      30.9       34.0     37.4      41.1      45.2      49.7
Depreciation                    138.0    170.3    323.3    478.9    597.5    724.6    794.0    938.3   1085.2
TOTAL EXPENSES                   .7    722.2    959.5   1247.0    1476.3   1721.5   1923.4   2433.3   3067.:
OPERATINC INCOME                     65.7     174.9    409.1      540.3    787.8   1285.4   1647.2   1976.0   2419.0
Interest Charges                162.3    228.5    267.4    409.3    409.5    613.8    367.5    341.8    449.1
NET INCOME                          (96.6)   (53.6)   141.7    131.0    378.3    671.6   1279.7   1634.2   1969.3
PATE Of RETURN X                      1.7       3.8       4.5       4.'       4.8       6.6       8.0       8.3       8.9
OPERATING RATIO 2                    90        87        70        70        65        57        54        55        56
REVENUEICROsS PLANT 2                14.2      14.5       9.8    11.6        10.6      13.0      14.0      13.8      35.6
DZPRECIATION/A"ERACE CROSS PLANT  3.3           3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3       3.3
0
Itd 
ch



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSIONt AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
RECTDESO Forecast funds Flow Stetement. 19Sf - 1993 for tlectricty 0Oprations
Fert I - Source of Fund.
uy Mtillton
1994      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992           1915/89
SOUItCQS Of FUND
Cenereted from tevstltone
Operatrng Income               65.7    174.9    409.1    540.,    787.6   1285.4   1647.2   1976.0   2419.0                     3197.5
Iepreciatton                  138.0    170.3    323.3    476.9    597.5    724.6    794.0    938.3   1085.2                     2294.6
TOTAL                       203.7    345.2    732.4   1019.2   1385.3   2010.0   2441.2   2914.3   3504.2                     S492.1
ietuburssennt of Long-Term
Investment                          23.5      23.5      21.5      23.5      23.5      23.5      23.5      23.5       23.5          117.5
Consumers' Contributions              2.2       2.6       2.3       2.6        2.7       2.8       3.0       3.2       3.3            13.0
Covernuent Funding                  250.0    407.6    668.2    -10.1   -143.1   -42^.    -499.0               -        -            499.0
fWV Suju bure
IfV Cttegs
Kf  Ntuneutnya
rfWV Haying*
IfV KInado
KtfV lwgura                    90.9    131.6                                                                                  :131;6
SAD Iwegura                   440.0    452.0        80.0                                                                       532.0
Kuwait Fund Iwegure           420.0    415.4        80.0                                                                       515.4
Catese  C-ntrale Lwegure    428.3    527.0    488.4    105.2    111.8                                                         1232.4
FTED Rwegure                  460.7    591.2    230.4         32.0      32.7      33.3      34.0      34.7      35.4           919.6
IDA Proposed Project                     62.0    589.6    579.6    197.4    216.0                                             1644.6
Coflnancters Proposed Project            41.S    289.4    465.1    155.1          48.9                                        1000.0
Other                                                                  141.0    720.0   1058.0    780.0    724.0               861.0
TOTAL                      1839.9   2240.7    1757.8   1181.9    638.0   1018.2   1092.0    814.7    759.4                 68136.6
TOTAL SOutRCES             239.3   3019.6   3184.2    2217.1  1906.2   2631.2   3060.7   3755.7   4290.4                  129S8.3
I-.
0%



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1593-BU)
RECIDCSO forecast Funds Flov Statements 1984 - 1998 for Electricity Operations
Part 2 - Applic.l'.n of Fund.
SuP . }
1984     1985      1986      1987       MO88     1989      1990      1991      1992         1985/89
APPLICATION OF FUIDS
Conscructior gxpendttures
Proposed Project                                  265.3   1069.6   1310.0    i61.0                                                  2909.9
Rwvgura Hydrofacilitles                1133.8 8 1045.3    968.2                                                                     281S.5
Kirunds Hydrofectittste                  57.4      11.3                                                                                11.3
Hupinga lydrofactiities                  33.3
Buract-Rumongs Hydrotecilities            9.2    119.6    250.9        18.7      71.1                                                460.3
Rumonge-Nyones Lee. Thermal t            67.7       5.0                                                                                 5.0
Rvegura-Iujumburs line 110 kV           641.7    211.7       77.5                                                                    289.2
Rwegura-"gast Ine 30 kV                 70.0      61.0      26.0                                                                      67.0
8uji-ly-Totr-NU-Kih line 30 tV          162.0      70.0                                                                               70.0
Nymmi-ururrl-luo"g4 1. 30 kV                       78.9    101.4                                                                      180.3
Muranmla-Ters-8uksye 1. 30 kV            20.0      23.9                                                                                23.9
Kerangara-Vurund4  1. 30 kV              471.3     38.4                                                                                35.4
Kayonat-"uyinge 1. 10 kV                 25.1                                                                                           _
SuboneeC-tegs 1. 110 kV                                                         180.0    180.0    180.0                               360.0
Other                                                                 100.0     00.0   1200.0   1500.0   1500.0   1700.0           1050.0
InterGet during construction             39.0      82.7    164.8    132.1       198.4     40.1    111.2   .184.8    109.9            618.1
TOTAL                                2306.5   2813,1   2658.4   15.0.8   1214.5   1470.1   1791 .2   161 .8   I t 
Pugsti It Hydrotecltittts
Contribution to SINELAC                  50.0      50.0    150.0    100.0        59.5                                                359.5*
Debt Service
Repayment                                           6.9      20.4      20.4    122.3    394.6    478.8   549.7         549.7         564.6
Interest                                167.3    228.5    261.4    409.3    409.5    613.8    367.5   341.8            449.7        1928.5
162.3    235.4    287.8    429.7    531.6   1008.4    646.3   891.5            999.4        2493.1
Increase In Vorbtng Capital               -199.5    -78.9       88.0      M2A.6    100.4    152.7    423.2   1179.4   1481.1             388.8
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                  2319.3   3019.6   3114.2   221i.1   1906.2   2631.2   306007   3755.7   4290.4               12958.1
Delt Serveo *oato                            1.3      1.5       2.5       2.4       2.6       2.0       2.9       2.5      2.4
2 Contribution to
Construction Cxendtturse                     1.8      3.9      16.7      31.8      70.0      36.?      89.0    120.0    131.0
LaI,



CICIBESO Ferceec melsec. Sh..t   954 -  9943 for *1E. 1 trlctc  OrtI.ns
Bu rilion
1964       196$        16         19 loll     196        1989        990        1991       1992
Aoete.
Flied Assets
Plant in OperatIon             4581.0     57U4.1    11939.2    15193.2  21279.9   23119.)   25485.4   31845.6   35162.5
Laos I.      .la. *14.6               636.6     102t.9      1605.5     2355.5      126S.1    4342.4       5627.1    7161.6
Not Ptant                49  .32         5105.    12910.3   137t1     192N  4   It33 .        1141.0   26211.1   20M.4
U.xk-tn-?Pe~r-tr               4470.0    6760.5    1971.2    3498.9           327.2      1197.1    3048.5        169.9    1)40.4
Long-Tsre Investmwnts           217.5       214.0      190.5       167.0      143.5       120.0       96.5        71.0       49.5
Current Assets
Cash/lenks                       24.2        54.5         9.9       11.2         9.6       35.2      107.6      1155.0    1268.5
Accounts IeoleobIe              379.4       312.9      344.1       446.6      566.0       751.0      934.0      1159.0    1500.0
Inventorfes                     240.1       211.6      2172.)      31S.0      367.4       425.4      491.6       566.1      652.0
Other Current Assets             11.9        14.1       16.3        16.6       60.0        20.4       65.1        61.4       91.1
TOTAL                     Trt-         6173.1    7102.6       671.6    10212.       1212.0    1719.2    2966.3    4531 6
TOTAL ASSETS                  9569.3      12751.1   15179.6   18325.3   20416.1   22982.5   26007.2   29629.5   33922.4
Capitol end Liabilities
%gutty
Capital                         257.1       257.1      251.1       257.1      257.1       257.1      257.1       257.1      257.1
Ketalned Earnlngs               291.1       236.1      319.8       510.6      689.1      1560.1    2640.4    4414.6    6441.9
Crant.                         2414.6      26A2.2    3550.4    3540.)   3l91.0           2S13.1    2414.1       2414.1    2414.6
t.&v.lStlan Beservo            1149.6      1666.6:4    I2222 0    III0.,     I1l..)    6262.2       1926.0    9576.2   11604.6
TOTAL                                            UO   S    77if         9271;S   1115231    1496.2 10712.6    2 11040
Lonl-term Debt                  4915.7      714S.5    8666.9   10045.4   13564.1   11187.7   11800.9    12065.9   1I").'
Caneueer. ContrIbtion             47.0        4.S6        51,9       54.5        57.2       60.0       61.0        64.2       69.i
Current Labililties
Accounts toyable                266.8       297.7      211.4       270.0      314.9       364.6      421.3       46S.2     533.6
Other Current Liabilities    186.0          192.3      19.1       204.1      n10.2       216.s      223.          229.6    238.3
TOTAL                      453.6       490.0      431.5       414.1      523.9       S81.1        -.        1 14.r 7`T
Total Cap. 6 LiabilIclte       95)9.1   12153.1   15779.0   10125.1   2041C.1    22962.5  26007.2   29U29.5   33922.4
Debt/Debt and EquIty I                54.1       36.S        50.1       56.5        55,5       52.2        46.1       43.6        19.0
Curr*et Rail*                          1.6         1.4        1.6         1.0        3.6         1.8        1.2         S.S        7.0
.vs.1hblem -i nths                     7           4.5        3                      3           3          5          3           1
Arwoel revaluation t                  11.4        12.9       10..                    9.5         8./        8.0        8.0         6.0                       OQ
0
I-.



