Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
CF. /6-93 3- Od6
Report No. P-4035-BU
'S
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE D-RECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
S
April 18, 1985
Thdisdocument  s a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients ony In the performance of
their offidal dudes. Its contents may no othrwise be disclosed without Wodd Bak autbhorizaion.



Currency Equivalents
Burundi Franc (BuF)
BuF I - US$0.01
US$1   -  BuF 117.
US$1   -  1.04 SDR
I.*
Measurements
GWh        gigawatt hour                    -     1,000,000 kilowatt hours
kcal       kilocalorie                      -     3.97 British thermal units
kV         Kilovolt                         '     1,000 volts
kVA        kilovolt ar!ipere                -     1,000 volt amperes
kW         kilowatt                         -     1000 watts
kWh        kilowatt hour                    "     1,000 watt hours
MVA        megavolt ampere                        1,000,000 volt amperes
MW         megawatt                         -     1,000 kilowatts
mWh        megawatt hour                          1,000 kilowatt hours
toe        ton of oil equivalent           -      10,500,000 kilocalories
ton        metric ton                             1.1 US tons
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB        African Development Bank
AfDF        African Development Fund
C.CCE       French Central Agency of Economic Cooperation
CEPGL   .   Economic Community of the Great Lakes
EdF         Power Company of France
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAC         French Aid and Cooperation Fund
FED         European Development Fund
GOB         Government of Burundi
GTZ         Bilateral Aid of the Federal Republic of Germany
IDC         Interests during Construction
MPWEM       Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mines
REGIDESO    Electricity and Power Company of Burundi
SNEL        Zaire Power Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Credit and ProJect Summary
'Borrower:               The Republic of Burundi
Amount:                  IDA Credit SDR 12.9 million (US$12.3 million
equivalent)-
Beneficiary:             REgie de distribution d'eau et d'electricite
(Regideso)
Terms;                   Standard
Relending Terms:         The Government will relend US$12.0 million
equivalent to Regideso at an interest rate of 9.29
percent, with a 20 years repayment period,
including five years' grace. Regideso will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:    The main objectives of the project would be to
assist the Government in (a) extending Burundi's
transmission and distribution network (i) to
improve the reliability and supply of electricity
to Bujumbura and its environs, and Cii) to extend
the availability of electricity to yet unserved
markets; and (b) strengthening the financial
performance, management and power planning
functions in Regideso. The project would allow
Burundi to make optimal use of the power from the
Ruzizi II regional plant.
Components:              The project would include: (a) a 110 kV transmis-
sion line (83 km) from Ruzizi II to Bubanza; (b)
construction of 110/30 kV substations in Bubanza
and Cibitoke, two 30 kV subtransmission lines (42
km) to supply four regional towns, a 15 or 30 kV
feeder to Katumba and distribution networks in
these towns; (c) construction of distribution
networks to consumers in six low-income districts
of Bujumbura; (d) rehabilitation of the Bujumbura
substation and Bujumbura - Ruzizi I transmission
line; (e) consulting engineering services,
management assistance to Regideso, establishment
of a training center and technical assistance for
the training of Regideso staff; and (f)
continuation of the dissemination program of
improved charcoal stoves in Bujumbuza, and the
services of an advisor to assist the Government in
devising strategies to 'mport petroleum products at
least cost.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/
Local   Foreign   Total
Project Components                       US$ million equivalent
Transmission an Distribution
110 kV Transmission Line                 0.90       3.70     4.60
Bubanza Substation                     0.65       1.10     1.75
Cibitoke Substation                    0.35       0.60     0.95
30 kV subtransmission Lines              0.31       1.00.    1.30
Distribution Networks for
7 Regional Towns                       0.15      0.55      0.70
Distribution Networks for 6
Bujumbura Districts                    0.78       3.10     3.88
Training                                 0.23       1.40     1.63
Engineering, Technical Assistance
Engineering Services                   0.16       0.90     1.06
Management Assistance                  0.18       1.00     1.18
Studies                                0.02       0.20     0.22
Petroleum Adviser                      0.01       0.10     0.11
Cooking Stoves Program                 0.07       0.10     0.28
Base Costs                               3.80      13.75    17.55
Contingencies:  Physical                 0.38       1.33     1.71
Price                    0.57      1.97     2.54
Total Project Cost                       4.75      17.05    21.80
Interest During Construction           2.70       -        2.70
Total Financing Required               7.45       17.05   24.50
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
--USA million equivalent--
IDA                                    1.85        10.45     12.30
Other donors 2/                        0.70         6.60      7.30
Regideso                               2.10         -         2.10
Government                             0.10         -         0.10
Government (IDC)                       2.70         -         2.70
Total                             7.45        17.05     24.50
1/ Duties and taxes would not be levied on the project.
2/ CCCE, the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ), and Belgium.



- $ii -
Estimated Disbursements:   IDA FY        FY8b    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual                                  2.0    6.0      2.3      1.6     0.4
Cumulative                              2.0    8.0    10.3    11.9    12.3
Staff Appraisal Report:   Burundi Power Transmission and Distribution
Project, April 18, 1985 (Report No. 5312-BU).
Economic Rate of Return:  Regional investment program: 8%.
Benefits and Risks:        The principal benefits of the proposed project
would be Burundi's access to the least-cost
source of electricity and extension of the
electricity supply to hitherto unserved
population groups. The project faces no special
risk.
Maps:                       IBRD 18516 Bujumbura Areas to be Electrified
IBRD 18517 Burundi Power Transmission and
Distribution Project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR
12.9 million (US$12.3 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Power Transmission and Distribution Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         The Last Country Economic Memorandum on Burundi (Report 4784BU)
is dated December 26, 1984.   The following section  incorporates  its
findings and conclusions. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.       Burundi is a small, land-locked country in East-Central Africa.
It covers a territory of 27,865 square kilometers (including its share in
Lake Tanganyika), and has a population of 4.4 million inhabitants. With an
estimated Gross National Product of US$240 per capita it is one of the
world's least developed countries. The overall literacy rate was about 25%
in 1982, morbidity is high, and basic social infrastructures are still
lacking.   Limited  natural resources, population pressure,  scarcity of
qualified and experienced manpower, and isolation from main trade routes,
characterize this extremely poor country.
4.        Nearly 95% qf Burundi's population is rural, living on scattered
homesteads. Bujumbura, the capital city, had about 165,000 inhabitants in
1982.   Agriculture, mostly smallholders who grow subsistence crops and
coffee, contributes 60% of GDP at factor cost and 90Z of merchandise
exports.   A few large farms grow sugarcane,  tea and quinine.   Other
natural  resources  are  scarce.    Identified  minerals  include  nickel,
phosphate, petroleum, vanadium, some fluvial gold and calcium, but the
economic  justificatioa  for  their  exploitation  is  still  uncertain.
Burundi's manufacturing sector is small, its growth being limited by the
small size of the domestic market, the country's isolation from trade
routes, vulnerability to disruptions in the external transport corridors,
high transport costs, and the lack of skilled manpower.
1/ This part is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
P-3526 BU on a Third Education Project, considered by the Executive
Diretctors on April 23, 1985.



- 2 -
5.            The country is the second most densely populated country in
Africa, with a density of 155 per km2.   Population pressure has led to
declining  soil  fertility,  soil  erosion  and  deforestation.    Although
agricultural statistics are poor, there are indications that, in recent
years,  foodcrop production may have declined in per capita terms.   Net
population growth is projected at 2.7% p.a. during the current decade. (In
the absence of migration, however, this growth would be higher; population
could triple in thirty years).  The implications of this rapid growth for
health  facilities,   schools,   employment   and  land  availability  are
worrisome. IDA has emphasized the urgent need to initiate family planning
programs.   Although progress has been slow,  the Government has recently
acknowledged the problem, and a first family health project is being
considered (para. 28).
b.            The country has an extensive road network.   Main roads are
passable  all  year.    There  is  an  international  airport  at  Bujumbura.
Burundi, however, remains dependent for most of its imports and exports
upon two transport routes to the Indian Ocean through neighboring
countries.   The Northern Route,  by highway from Bujumbura  to Mombasa,
Kenya, via Rwanda and Uganda is 2,020 km. in length.   This route suffers
from   poor   road   conditions,   and   cumbersome   administrative   border
procedures.   The Southern Route, by barge down Lake Tanganyika,  then by
railway to Dar-es-Salaam, is 1,425 km. It tends to be inefficient because
of long delays in clearing Bujumbura port, antiquated barges and
disruptions on the Tanzanian railway.
7.        Transport charges on these routes add significantly to the landed
cost of imports.   The passage of goods through neighboring countries is
hindered by factors which are out of Burundi's control.  Interruption of
crucial supplies hinders project implementation and forces firms to hold
large stocks of inputs and spare parts. In 1980, the Bank prepared a study
of the external  transport  connections of Burundi  and Rwanda.   A more
extensive study covering Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and Eastern Zaire was
carried out by UNCTAD.  The findings and recommendations of these studies
have assisted the countries and donor agencies to agree on action and
priority investments.   Several bilateral and multilateral meetings led,
inter alia, to the Northern Corridor Transit Agreement which was concluded
in  Kampala in September 1984.  The agreement will result in significant
simplification of customs procedures at border crossings.  On the Southern
Route, a number of external donors have been financing improvements in
physical facilities at the ports of Kigoma and Dar-es-Salaam.  IDA is now
preparing a report which will update and review the actions taken so far
and will help to define priority policies and investments in regard to the
international transport.
Economic Developments: Goals and Performance
8.          In the mid-1970s, Burundi's economic situation benefitted from
several favorable factors: (i) a new Government, headed by President
Bagaza, took power in 1976, ending a period of political instability; (ii)
the prices of coffee in the international market tripled, resulting in
substantial windfall profits and accumulation of public savings; and (iii)
the level of foreign aid to Burundi increased considerably, in support of
the  new  regime's  stated  commitment  to  economic  development.    These



- 3 -
circumstances appeared to be a good omen for the Third Development Plan
(1978-82), and expectations for an improvement in living conditions were
therefore high.
6           9.           The Third Development Plan (1978-82) included broad objectives
such as the transformation of the economic structure; the mobilization of
resources for production; the reduction of poverty, together with improved
income distribution; and increased access to education and health
services.    Performance  during  the  Plan  period  was  relatively  good
especially in comparison with most of the Sub-Saharan countries.   On the
average, real GDP at market prices rose by 3.1% per year, with   gross
domestic investment averaging about 13.5% of GDP, far above the 8.0% share
of  the previous five years.   The public sector took the lead in the
investment effort, accounting for 90% of the total. Foreign donors financed
about 60% of the expenditures.   The growth in total value added was mainly
due to the growth in the modern sector stimulated by public investment
spending.   The output of the subsistence sector which accounts for 85% r,f
the population, grew more slowly than the population, widening the income
gap  between rural and urban dwellers.    The investment program favored
mostly the modern sector, and the effects of this investment on income and
foreign exchange earnings were limited.   Most of the projects were capital
intensive and created few jobs; moreover, the protection extended to the
new ventures made them inefficient and heavily dependent on imported
materials, adding little to the country's foreign exchange earning
capacity.
10.        The financial situation, which was kept under control during the
1970's, deteriorated rapidly at the turn of the decade.   This was due to
two main factors: (i) deterioration in the terms of trade -- by 75% bet-
ween 1977 and 1982 -- reflecting a decline in coffee prices and a doubling
in import prices, notably of oil products, which pushed the current account
deficit to about 12% of GDP; and (ii) insufficient and delayed response of
the Government to the changing economic environment. To support the balance
of payments, the Government relied mostly on a run-down of its reserves; it
also  increased  restrictions  on  imports  and  on  remittances  of  foreign
exchange abroad.  The Burundi Franc appreciated with respect to the curren-
cies of the major trade partners, reflecting the appreciation of the US
dollar to which it was pegged.
11.      These unfavorable developments had serious consequences for the
budget.   The terms-of-trade deterioration reduced import capacity and led
to budgetary problems, as the Government's receipts from coffee exports
fell dramatically, necessitating cutbacks in imports and public spending.
These factors as well as the poor agricultural conditions of 1982 led to a
decline in income, which spread into 1983 and affected economic activity.
The overall result was a widening of the resource gap, depletion of
reserves,  and  an  accumulation  of  payment  arrears  in  the  Government
accounts.
12.       During the 1978-82 period, Burundi was able to receive external
financing on very soft terms.   Grant assistance was substantial.            In
addition, external public borrowing during the period carried an average
interest rate of only 2.4% and an average maturity of 31 years including



eight years  of grace,  implying  a grant element of about 60%.   Debt
servicing remained, therefore, low -- at about 5% of exports of goods and
nonfactor services in 1978-82. Bank projections indicate, however, a rapid
increase to about 20-25% in the next few years due to the composition and
terms of past borrowing.
13.           The lesson of the Third Plan period is that Burundi must
establish development priorities and select investment projects with great
care.   The linkage between macroeconomic planning and the selection of
programs  and  projects  needs  to  be  improved.    The  private  sector,
nongovernmental organizations, and cooperatives must be enlisted to the
maximum extent feasible to participate in the development effort.
Sustained technical assistance will be needed for several years in order to
strengthen the country's ability to identify, prepare, and carry out
well-conceived plans and projects.
14.        The year 1983 was the first year of the Fourth Development Plan
(1983-87), which , as explained further below, incorporates an ambitious
investment program of USS230 million per year (US100 million more than
what was achieved in the Third Plan Period). The Government tried to raise
its revenues in order to be able to carry out this ambitious program. New
tax measures were introduced, notably increases of 50 to 100% in the rates
of the most important taxes -- transaction tax, income tax and tax on beer
consumption, which in the last years replaced coffee as the single main
source of government fiscal revenue.   By mid-1983,  however,  there were
signs of increasing financial stress.   The Government tried to cope with
the situation by attempting to reduce the investment budget by 45%, but
this proved difficult.   While 80% of the investment planned for 1983 was
actually implemented, this was obtained at a great cost: the public
domestic debt increased substantially; unpaid obligations accumulated,
representing (at end-1983) 30X of Government spending; and the overall
budget  deficit  reached  5% of  GDP.    Economic  growth,  which  had  been
negligible in 1982, remained marginal in 1983, with non-agricultural
sectors registering an absolute decline.
15.        In response to this difficult situation, the Government took a
number of important actions. First, in November 1983, the FBu was delinked
from the US dollar tto which it had been linked since 1976) and pegged to
the SUR, with an implicit devaluation of about 30%. Second, in early 1984,
the producer prices of the main export crops were raised to provide
stronger incentives to producers.   The coffee price was increased by 6%,
the tea price by 3b%, and the cotton price by 17%. Third, in an attempt to
balance the current budget, the Government increased the rates of the most
important taxes (para. 13), froze public wages and salaries, improved the
system of tax collection, and cut the recurrent subsidies to the
parastatals.
16.        According to preliminary and partial information, the year 1984
was another difficult year.   Agriculture was adversely affected by the
drought and foodcrop production may have fallen by as much as 5-6%.  Cash
crop production did not fare better: coffee production fell from a high of



3b,000 tons in 1983 to 27,000 tons, offsetting the increase in the output
of other cash crops, notably tea.  The modern sector has registered some
real growth (owing to the partial liquidation of government arrears), but
the poor performance of the primary sector caused total GDP to stagnate.
On the financial side, both external and internal imbalances seemed to have
improved. Partially, as a result of the last year devaluation, Burundi's
trade  balance improved.   However, because of increased factor services
payments and debt servicing charges, the current account deficit remained
above  12%  of GDP.   The  public  finance  situation  has  also  improved.
Revenues are estimated to be 20X higher than in 1983, reflecting (a) the
impact of the devaluation on revenues from taxes on international trade;
(b) reinforcement of tax collection procedures; and (c) improvement in the
economic  activity  of  the  modern  sector.    Current  expenditures  were
maintained at about the same level, in nominal terms, and capital outlays
were reduced to their lowest level since 1979. As a result, the budgetary
deficit was reduced from FBu6.5 billion to FBu3.4 billion (or from 5X of
GDP to 3%).
Sectoral Developments and Issues
17.         The very rapid population growth in a country which is already
overpopulated represents the most threatening constraint on economic
development which Burundi has to face (para. 5). The Government of Burundi
recently announced its intention to adopt a program to reduce population
growth and to establish, as a first step, an Interministerial Family
Planning Commission. One of the first tasks of this Commission will be to
plan and develop a population program. Fertility reduction will require a
strengthening in the management and planning capacity of the Ministry of
Health, an improvement in the delivery of basic health services, as well as
an increase in public spending on health, which declined in real terms in
the last five years.
18.        In Agriculture, the most important issues for future development
relate to productivity increases, to soil protection, and erosion control.
Food crop promotion is essential in order to assure sufficient supplies for
a fast growing population. Better utilization of the country's traditional
export crop potential and diversification into new export crops appears
crucial because of limited possibilities for new export revenue earning
activities.    Priority  actions  to  be  undertaken  in  agriculture  are
therefore: promotion of applied research, in particular on food crops;
strengthening and improvement of extension services; adequate and regular
provision of inputs; initiation of immediate and longer-term measures to
protect  the  country's  agricultural  potential;   and  amelioration  of
organization and operations of the three main export crop subsectors
(coffee,  tea,  and  cotton),  principally  through  improvement  in  the
management of agricultural public enterprises and through adequate pricing
and  stabilization  policies.        On  the  institutional  side,  further
strengthening of agricultural planning, and project preparation and
monitoring capacity appears crucial in order to assure effective design and
implementation of projects. The concept of Regional Development Companies,
which the Government established to promote integrated rural development,



needs to be carefully reviewed in order to adapt their design to the
country's needs and possibilities, in particular in terms of finances and
human resources.
19.        Manufacturing Industry.  Industrialization is constrained by the
limited natural resources, low productivity of the industrial labor force
and the acute shortage of managers, as well as by the country's small
market, the low purchasing power of its population, the country's
land-locked position, and difficult transport conditions which increase
costs.   Burundi does offer, however, certain advantages  for industrial
development: basic infrastructure is available in the major urban center at
reasonable costs; the country's land-locked situation constitutes a natural
protection for import substitution projects; and domestic finance is
readily  available  to  manufacturers.         During  the  1978-82  period,
protectionist measures created a favorable climate for manufacturing
expansion. Modern manufacturing value added grew at an average annual rate
of nearly 10% in real terms, reaching about 5X of GDP in 1982.  Most of
this expansion  has  been  oriented  to  the domestic market.    Production
remains typical of the first generation of import substitution, based on
imported raw materials with exports limited to processed coffee, tea,
cotton and a few other items.  Capacity utilization is low because of the
small size of the domestic market, high tariffs in neighboring countries,
and high production costs.   However,  due  to the monopolistic situation
enjoyed by most firms and the *"cost-plus" system of price control, the
sector is profitable. Since the mid-1970s, the Government has participated
in a number of joint ventures with foreign interests and established public
enterprises to manage large industrial operations that the private sector
had avoided because of their complex management and large financial
requirements.   Most of these public enterprises have been created without
an adequate financial structure and/or sufficient qualified personnel and
are  now  a drain  on  the budget.   The Government  has  recognized  these
problems and has taken some measures to deal with them.   It created a
Public Enterprises Commission (CGEP) to improve the efficiency of public
enterprises, sell off enterprises to private investors when possible, and
phase out  those unlikely  to become viable.   Burundi  faces a range of
problems in the energy sector, which are reviewed in para. 30.
20.        The Government has made a considerable effort to develop basic
educatic and increase primary enrollments. Average percentages of capital
and recurrent budgetary expenditures allocated to education are comparable
to those of other African countries.  However, they are high considering
that the primary enrollment rate in public schools is only about 30% and
cannot  be increased  given present  budgetary constraints.   Measures are
therefore being taken to increase the share of resources which are devoted
to basic education, through the adoption of cost saving measures at the
secondary  and  university  level,  and  to  use  these  resources  more
effectively, in particular through the introduction of double shifting, and
upgrading of teacher training. The Ministry of Education is also providing
assistance to improve the quality and scope of education given in private
schools and adult social centers.



-7-
The 1983-87 Fourth Plan
21.        The  ?ourth Plan was presented at a Round Table meeting organized
by the UNDP in February 1984. The Plan envisages real GDP (factor cost)
growth of 3.7% per year between 1982 and 1987 and total investment of
FBu1O7.2 billion (in constant 1981 prices), equivalent to about US$1,200
million.     Barring an unforeseen and substantial improvement in coffee
prices and a major inflow of fresh 'inancial aid, achievement of the Fourth
Plan objectives does not seem likely.   Given the prospective resource
availabilities, perhaps not more than 60% of the intended investment would
be feasible.   Even with such a shortfall, external donors would have to
provide 80 of total financing.
22.       The Fourth Plan anticipates that 30% of the investment financing
will come from domestic sources (20Z from the budget, 1OZ from bank credit
and the private sector) and 70% from foreign aid. In fact, the Fourth Plan
anticipates an annual average of US$160 million in foreign aid for project
financing, which is almost twice what was received during the Third Plan
period.  A doubling of net external assistance, while not impossible, does
not appear very probable; a more conservative figure would be between
US$100-130 million per year. The Government may therefore have to cut the
investment program.
23.       Regional development in Central Africa will also be important to
Burundi's economy.  In September 1976, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a
convention establishing the Economic Community of the Countries of the
Great Lakes   (CEPGL).   The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi,
Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional
trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities.  A major objective of
the Community is the electrification of the Great Lakes region.  A first
step is the Ruzizi Project, cofinanced by t'.-e European Development Fund,
the regional Development Bank (BDEGL - see below), Italy, and IDA, which is
about to start.   A glass  container project, which is the first major
regional industry to be implemented under the aegis of the CEPGL, is
underway. The three countries have set up a joint development bank (BDEGL)
to finance regional development projects, in particular exploitation of
methane deposits in Lake Kivu and development of a fishing industry around
Lake Tanganyika.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
24.        The history of Bank Group operations in Burundi closely follows
the three phases of the country's political and economic development since
Independence in 1962.   To the political turmoil of the 1962-1976 period
corresponds a phase of limited operations (coffee production, highway
engineering  and  maintenance  and  water  supply).    With  the  period  of
increased political stability came a rapid acceleration of IDA lending for



-8-
agriculture and highways as well as an extension of assistance to new
sectors: fisheries, education, industry and rural development.  Financing
was also provided to improve the telecommunications network, explore the
feasibility of exploiting nickel deposits, and strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry of Planning, and the management of urban services in
Bujumbura.  As of September 30, 1984, Burundi has received 23 credits
totalling US$196 million; 10 credits, totalling about US$46 million had
been totally disbursed.  IDA is now one of the main sources of financial
assistance to Burundi.
25.        Project Implementation.  Projtct performance has, on the whole,
been satisfactory.  The disbursement rate of 27X in FY82-84 is above the
average for countries of the Eastern and Southern Africa Region. Physical
implementation ef infrastructure projects or components (roads, schools,
coffee stations, telecommunications) has been satisfactory.   The nickel
exploration project showed that the ore content of the mineral was lower
than expected, and that exploitation of the deposit would not be economic
in the near future.    Implementation  of  the  pilot  local  construction
industry project has been hampered by the economic recession.   In the
productive sectors the record is mixed.  While agricultural projects had
some success in increasing the production and quality of coffee, and in
increasing forest areas, they have had no apparent impact on developing
food crop production because of the absence of technical packages which
could be readily adopted by farmers and the lack of a coherent policy on
agricultural inputs and services.   The DFC Project failed to develop a
pipeline of small enterprise projects in the industrial sector:  the weak
management of the Development Bank compounded the structural constraints of
the country which cannot be overcome in the framework and time span of one
project alone. Operations of the glass container company financed by IFC
are affected by poor market conditions due to lagging beverage consumption,
competition from cheaper imports in neighboring export markets and the lack
of progress in the negotiations of preferential tariffs with Rwanda and
Zaire.  The fisheries project failed largely because it was too complex in
relatioa to the institutional and management capacity of the implementing
agency. The impact of the projects on Institutional Development has been
mixed. In some projects (Highway, Coffee), the presence of an effective
technical assistance team led to a successful project implementation but
did not result in the strengthening of the capacity of local institutions.
In the education and telecommunications projects, on the other hand,
efforts in institution building and training have had good results, and the
assistance provided under the Second and Third Technical Assistance
Projects has strenghtened the capacity of the Ministries of Planning and
Agriculture to identify and address key policy issues; select, prepare and
mouitor projects; and improve coordination between them.  Similarly, the
urban project was successful in strengthening the Bujumbura municipality.
IDA-financed projects have also provided a framework for policy
discussions and decisions. Discussions under the Education projects led,
inter alia, to the adoption of cost savings and cost-recovery schemes, a
more equitable distribution of school facilities, reorganization of
secondary education, and development of non-formal education for adults.
The urban project has accomplished major changes in urban programs over the
past several years including rhe lifting of rent ceilings and the adoption
of cost-recovery schemes.



-9-
26.        Economic and Sector Work and Evolution of Dialogue.  In order to
assist  the Burundian authorities in  defining  the  necessary  adjustment
policies, economic and sector work was intensified in the past two years.
In the agricultural sector, the dialogue is focusing on the need to
deemphasize rellance on complex, rural development projects and to improve
research and extension services, diversify foodcrop production and export
crops, design input policies,  and promote the private sector.   In the
energy sector, our dialogue has contributed to focus Government attention
and actions on key issues.   The recent discussion of the manufacturing
sector report has established the basis of a dialogue on industrial
policy. In the transport sector our dialogue with Burundi and neighboring
countries has contributed to the removal of some of the administrative
bottlenecks  on the northern route.   The population issue has been the
object of repeated discussions with the Government and is one of the main
themes of our policy dialogue with Burundi.
27.       Strategy.  IDA's strategy places short-term stabilization efforts
in the context of medium-term adjustment policies and long-term development
programs designed to address the country's structural constraints. We plan
to focus our assistance to the Government on the design and implementation
of medium-term economic policies and actions so as to improve the
efficiency of resource allocation through the strengthening of public
sector management (investment selection, monitoring and aid coordination,
parastatal management, reorientation in the management of the agricultural
sector).    While  some  recent  adjustment  measures  show  that Burundian
authorities appreciate the need for demand management, there is only
limited awareness of the options available and possible impact of measures
aimed at increasing output and productive capacity. Our assistance in this
area could have a critical impact. At the same time, IDA will continue to
support  long-term  efforts   to  develop  humar.  resources,   strengthen
Institutions, and develop and maintain infrastructure which will have an
indirect and long-term impact on production, as well as policies and
specific project choices which would improve the equity of income
distribution. Priority will be given to the design of an action program to
control population growth.   We believe that given the broad development
needs of Burundi, and the need to strengthen the management capacity of the
Burundian administration, it is important that the Bank remain active in
the main sectors of the economy;  only then will we be able to provide
prudent and coherent advise to the Government on the overall management of
the economy as well as sectoral issues and policies.   No other donor or
institution (with the partial exception of the IMF) is in a position to
play this vital role.
28.          In order to implement this strategy, our Economic work will
include the review and monitoring of the investment program, studies to
identify ways of increasing the efficiency of the public sector and a CEM
(FY86-87).  We shall work closely with the IMF to prevent duplication of
efforts. As to Sector work, the emphasis will be on (i) increasing
agricultural production including studies on land use issues, erosion
control and agroforestry, export crops promotion and financial aspects of
agricultural projects; (ii) raising industrial output, including a tariff
study and a study on long term potential for industrial diversification and



- 10 -
regional  cooperation.    In  other  sectors,  such  as  transport,  human
resources, energy and mining, our sector work will be limited to updating
and consolidating the results of previous studies.   The lending program
includes   proposed  projects   in  agriculture   (agricultural   services;
foodcrops; forestry; export crops), human resources (education; health/
population); transport and communications; and energy.
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
29.        Burundi's principal energy resource is its forest, half of which
is natural, which covers about 6Z of the country.   Peat is available in
relative  abundance  but  is not  traditionally  used.   The potential for
development of hydroelectric power exists but development is costly because
sites are widely scattered and have low capacity.   Recent reconnaissance
work suggests the presence of oil under Lake Tanganyika and the Ruzizi
plain.   In the renewable  energy  subsector,  the potential  is limited.
Biomass fuels (fuelwood, charcoal and animal residues) account for about
95Z of the total energy consumption,  petroleum products  about 4%, and
electricity 1%.   The possible substitutes for charcoal and firewood are
electricity, kerosene and peat. Electricity for cooking at present tariff
levels costs roughly the same as charcoal at present market prices, but the
high cost of electric stoves and the connections are beyond the reach of
most of the urban population.   The cost Or imported petroleum products
prohibits using kerosene for cooking except for the few affluent. Efforts
have been made to supply peat as a cooking fuel, but to date it has no
advantages over charcoal in cost or acceptability.
Sector Issues
30.            A UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment mission 2/ identified
Burundi's most pressing energy issues to be: (i) the rapid depletion of
forestry resources and the fact that reforestation efforts compete for land
with food and export crop production; (ii) the high cost of oil imports;
and  (iii)  institutional  weakness  in  the  electricity  subsector.    The
Government, with assistance from the UNDP/Bank energy management program
and other donors has started to implement a program (i) to improve forestry
sector management and policy; (ii) to reduce fuelwood demand by introducing
more efficient firewood and charcoal cookstoves and kilns; (iii) to develop
the use of peat as a substitute for wood, charcoal and petroleum products;
(iv) to investigate alternative and contingency supply arrangements for
oil imports;  (v) to improve   the transmission network and establish a
strong unit for power planning; and (vi) to contract with an international
company for petroleum exploration.
2/ Burundi: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector", June, 1982.



- 11 -
Traditional Energy
31.         Woodfuel and Charcoal.  The Forestry Department of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock has launched a long te=m program aimed at: (a)
developing plantations and rural nurseries to provide plants to farmers;
(b) reinforcing forestry services; and (c) setting-up long-term pricing and
marketing  policies.   This  program is  assisted  under the IDA Forestry
Project and by other donors, including Belgium, the Federal Republic of
Germany, France, the African Development Bank, the European Development
Fund and UNDP. More efficient charcoal production methods have been tested
and promoted under the IDA First Forestry Project (CR-918-BU). Under the
IDA Urban Development Project (CR-1049-BU) an improved charcoal stove was
designed which provides fuel savings of 30Z compared to the traditional
stove. A promotion program is to be launched to encourage the use of this
stove. Efforts under the Forestry Project to design an improved woodstove
have, however, been unsuccessful because the rural population is not
accustomed to using stoves and has no monetary incentive to save fuelwood
which it gathers at no monetary cost. Studies on present cooking practices
and incentives to use improved cookstoves, as well as to design an
economically acceptable cookstove and test its acceptance, would be needed
before a promotion program could be launched. There are no immediate plans
to proceed with such studies, however, pending discussions with Government
of experience to uate, and the potential for achieving further progress in
these efforts at reasonable cost. In the meantime, as noted above, efforts
are being concentrated on improved efficiency in charcoal production and
utilization, especially in urban areas.  When a program has been agreed
with Government for woodfuel stoves, the Association would be prepared to
support its promotion.
32.         Peat.  Production problems keep the greater part of Burundi's
abundant peat resources unavailable or prohibitively expensive. Questions
remain about the technical feasibility of extracting peat in large
quantities, the market and the environmental effects of large-scale
exploitation of these peat resources.   Production of peat is assumed to
have reached 15,000 tons in 19F4.   Consumption is very limited.   The
Burundi army purchases about 80% of all peat sold, and the remainder is
sold to brickmaking operations, tea plantations, bakeries, hospitals, and
to missions located near the bog sites.  Peat is not used as a household
fuel (pare 29). A report on peat utilization prospects completed in early
1985 under the ESMAP concluded that peat could substitute for oil for some
industrial uses and recommended a demonstration project to test this
approach.
Commercial Energy
33.          Petroleum.  Petroleum exploration is underway (para. 29), but
for the present, Burundi is entirely dependent on foreign sources for its
supply of petroleum products.  The major issues are related to the very
high cost of imported oil and the vulnerability of the supply routes to
interruption. In 1982 and 1983, the costs of petroleum imports accounted
for about 16% of total merchandise imports and 37% of merchandise exports.



- 12 -
The price established by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry in May 1983
of about US$85 per barrel is based on the price of products from the
Mombasa refinery (i.e. including freight but exclusive of taxes).   Price
levels were last adjusted in December 1983.  A consultant funded by ESMAP
has  established  that the  least-cost alternative  would  be to purchase
finished products on the Middle East open market and transport them thcough
the Dar es Salaam/Kigoma route provided that the reliability of this route
was improved. This could yield savings of about 12 percent of the import
bill.   The Government has  built additional  storage  tanks  at Gitega.
However, these tanks are empty as problems remain regarding the financing
and the management of the stocks.   The MPWEM is preparing contingency
supply arrangements.
34.           The Power Sector.   Electricity currently provides about 23%
percent of the commercial energy in Burundi.   Only about two percent of
Burundi's population has access to electricity.   At present,  Burundi's
total installed capacity is 19.8 MW, of which 60% is hydro, ana the
remainder is diesel.  Electricity is supplied mainly from the Mugere hydro
plant (8 Mw), from Zaire's Ruzizi hydro station (28 Mw) which supplies
power to the interconnected system cf Kivu-Rwanda-Burundi, and frc.a -n old
diesel station (5.5 Mw) in Bujumbura which is used as a standby.   The
output of the Mugere station may be reduced to 2 Mv in summer because of
the lack of a storage reservoir.   There are also many small hydro and
diesel plants installed at isolated missions, farms, hospitals, and tea
estates. Electric power from the Ruzizi I station in Zaire is supplied to
Bujumbura via a 70 kV transmission line 115 km long, and a substation in
Bujumbura owned and operated by the Zairian power company SNEL and from the
Mugere generating station via a 35 kV transmission line (25 km).   The
capacity of the Ruzizi I-Bujumbura line is about 9.5 MW and was reached in
1981.   The substation needs  to  be rehabilitated.    Regideso's  30  kV
transmission lines total only about 36 km.  A 15 kV transmission line,
owned by SNEL, supplies power to Uvira in Zaire from the Bujumbura
substation. The total length of the transmission and distribution network
is about 420 kms. The inadequaote coverage and unreliability of the network
are at present among the main constraints on the development of the power
sector.
35.         Power Demand.  Since 1979, the average annual growth in demand
has  been  about  13%.    The greatest  increase  has  been  in demand from
industry, which reached 17% annuallv in 1980 and 1981, and 43% in 1983.
Growth in the domestic sector has averaged about 11% annually since 1979.
Total consumption rose from 35,828 MWh in 1979 to 57,815 MWh in 1983, while
the peak demand increased from 7.1 MW to 12.0 MW during the same period.
Total sales of Regicaso are projected to increase from 74 GWh in 1985 to
116 GWh in 1969 at an average annual rate of 11%.
Regideso
36.          Regideso is a parastatal company which is responsible for the
generation, transmission   and distribution of electricity;  and for the
pumping, treating and distributing of water in urban areas. Regideso has a
monopoly on che distribution of electricity the country, but in fact it
only operates in the urban centers of Bujumbura, Gitega, Muramvya, and



- 13 -
Bururi for electricity and in these and six other towns for water.  The
electricity and water operations were organized jointly originally, because
of the scarcity of qualified management personnel.  Electricity and water
accounts have, however, been separated.   Now that the organization has
grown, the advisability of separating electricity and water operations
should be reviewed. Regideso operates under the supervision of the MPWEM
through  a  Board  of  Directors.        The  Board  is  carrying  out  its
responsibilities in a satisfactory manner without excessive Government
interference.   Rowever, major investment decisions are made by the MPWEM
and tariffs are decided by the Government. The present general manager was
appointed to his position in March, 1985. He had previously been technical
manager for eleven years, in which capacity he proved to be competent and
efficient.   In general, the responsibilities of the senior staff members
are carried out in a satisfactory manner but their support staff lack
appropriate skills in marketing, accounting, budgeting and forecasting.
Currently four expatriates, two senior advisors and two technicians,
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany, work for the electricity and
water divisions.  Regideso employs a total staff of 636 which is about
average for its size as an electricity and water utility in Africa; but the
ratio of staff to consumers, now 1:18, needs to be reduced. The financial
situation of Regideso is weak.  In 1983, the financial rates of return on
revalued assets for electricity and water operations were 2.1% and 5.8%,
respectively, resulting in an overall low financial rate of return of 2.8%,
reflecting inadequate electricity tariffs and high operating expenses for
both  electricity  and water.   The  current ratio  of 2.6  reflects  the
excessive level of receivables for consumption of electricity and water,
which were equivalent to eleven months of billing as of December 31, 1983.
The debt/equity ratio in 1983 was 61:39, which is high.   In July 1984,
Regideso retained the services of a consulting firm to carry out a
management diagnosis and define methods to improve Regideso's accounting,
finance and investment planning, financed under the Project Preparation
Facility. The report was completed in March, 1985.
Rural Electrification
37.            Rural electrification is the responsibility of the Rural
Hydraulics and Electrification Department (DHER) of the Ministry of Rural
Development, which was created in 1979.  Since then, it has successfully
brought into operation 5 mini-hydro generating stations (0.05 to 0.24 MW),
two diesel generating stations (both 0.09 MW), and about 27 km of subtrans-
mission and distribution lines.   Two new generating stations are under
construction as well as about 16 km of transmission lines. There is little
coordination between. DHER and Regideso.   The selection of projects 's
generally determined according to the lending agency's preference.   Upon
completion of works, the operation, maintenance, and financial obligations
are left to the recipient, i.e., hospital, school, or local government
agency, with the result that the maintenance is sometimes inadequate, and
funds for replacement parts are not available.   One of the tasks of the
management assistance to Regideso under the Project, would be to make
proposals regarding control of project selection and operation.



- 14 -
The Government's Strategy in the Power Sector
38.         The strategy of the Government in the power sector has been to
reduce its dependency on foreign sources for the supply of electrical
energy, which it regards as being vital to the economy and the security of
Burundi. Thus it has given top priority to the development of the Rwegura
hydroelectric project which in IDA's opinion was not the least cost
solution but is located within Burundi's borders. Burundi also decided to
participate in the Ruzizi II regional project which will be needed to meet
projected demand in Burundi from 1990 on.
IDA Strategy in the Power Sector
39.         The Association's objectives in the power sector are:   (i) to
help create a sound and efficient power supply organization through
training and substantial upgrading of its managerial, financial and
technical performance; and (ii) to support the least-cost expansion, in
particular through regional cooperation, of electric generating capacity
and the supply of electricity to unserved areas of the country. In support
of these objectives, in 1983 IDA participated in the financing of the
regional Ruzizi II Hydroelectric Project (Credits 1419-BU, 1420-RW,
1421-ZR).    Funds  for  comnlementary  works  for  the  rehabilitation  and
expansion of the Rwandese dlectricity network were approved in June 1984
(CR 1495-RW), and Zaire has requested funds for similar works in the Kivu
province; the proposed project would allow Burundi to make optimal use of
power from the Ruzizi II regional plant.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was prepared by Regideso with the assistance
of consultants (Electricite de France International, France) and the
Association.  It was identified in October 1982, prepared in July 1983 and
appraised in June/July 1984. A report entitled 'Burundi Power Transmission
and Distribution Project" (No. 5312-BU, dated April 18, 1985), is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held
in Washington from March 27 to April 1st, 1984.  The Burundese delegation
was led by Mr. Simbarakiye, General Manager of Regideso. The main features
of the credit and project are given in the summary at the beginning of this
report and in Annex Ill.
41.            The proposed project would assist  the Government  in:  (a)
extending Burundi's transmission and distribution network by (i) improving
the reliability and supply of electricity to Bujumbura and its environs,
and (ii) extending the availability of electricity to yet unserved markets;
(b) strengthening the financial performance, management and power planning
functions in Regideso; (c) providing technical assistance services to
obtain the most reliable and least cost arrangements for oil imports; and
(d) continuing the stove dissemination program started under the Urban
Development  Project  (CR  1049-BU).    Feasibility  studies,  tariff  and
management studies, and assistance to Regideso for the bidding and analysis
of tenders were financed under an advance from the Project Preparation



- 15 -
Facility.   Regideso would be responsible for the Laplementation of the
power transmission and distribution component. The stove component and the
petroleum import component would be under the responsibility of the MPWEM.
Project Description
42.       The project would include:
(a) Extension of the Transmission and Distribution System
- construction of a 110 kV transmission line connecting the
Ruzizi II hydro plant to the Burundian network, and of 110/30
kV substations in Bubanza and Cibitoke, two 30 kV subtransmis-
sion lines (42km) to supply the regional towns of Rugombo,
Mparambo, Mpanda and Muzinda, a 15 or 30 kV feeder to Katumba
and distribution networks in these towns;
- extension of the low voltage distribution network to low-
income districts of Bujumbura.
-  rehabilitation    of    the    Bujumbura    substation    and
Bujumbura-Ruzizi I transmission line.
(b) Technical Assistance and Training to Regideso
- consulting engineering services for construction works;
- management assistance;
- establishment of a training center and technical assistance
for the training of staff;
(c) Technical Assistance to the MinistrU of Public Works Energy aud
Mines
-  continuation of dissemination program for improved charcoal
stoves in Bujumbura; and
- assistance to the Government in devising strategies to import
petroleum products at least cost.
Transmission and Subtransmission Lines
43.       Feasibility studies concluded that the proposed route from Ruzizi
II to Bubanza and Bujumbura (see map 18517) for the transmission line was
the least-cost solution.   The line would cross the Zairian and Rwandese
territories. It would be a coadition of effectiveness of the credit that
Burundi has obtained from Rwanda and Zaire rights sufficient to allow free
access to their respective territories as necessary for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the transmission line (Section 6.01(e) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The 30 kV subtransmission lines would
supply Rugumbo and Mparambo from Cibitoke (21km), and Mpanda ana Muzinda
from Bubanza (21km).



- 16 -
Cibitoke and Bubanza Substations
44.        Additional switching and control equipment would be provided at
Ruzizi II to permit power  to be transmitted directly  to Burundi.   An
intermediate substation at Cibitoke would contain a 110/30 kV transformer
with the necessary switching and protective equipment with provision for a
30 kV line towards Mparambo and Rugombo in tne north. The major switching
station at Bubanza would provide for the incoming 110 kV lines from Rwegura
and Ruzizi II and one outgoing line to Bujumbura. Space would be provided
for a second line to Bujumbura, for extension of a 110 kV line to Matongo,
a potential mining center, and to Gitega. Two 110/30 kV transformers would
be provided, one for local supply and the other as a stand-by.
Distribution Extensions
45.        About 13 km of 10 kV, and 100 km of 400 kV distribution lines,
and 30 transformers would be installed to connect 3,300 new consumers in
six  low  income  districts  of Bujumbura.   To  develop  the distribution
networks in the regional towns north of Bujumbura. about 20 km of 400 kV
lines and 21 transformers of various capacities would be installed to
connect about 360 consumers.   The town of Katumba, about 15 km from
Bujumbura would be provided with electricity from the Bujumbura-Uvira line,
owned by SNEL, by a short feeder line.
Bujumbura Substation and Bujumbura-Ruzizi I Transmission Line
46.            Rehabilitation needs of the Bujumbura substation and the
Bujumbura Ruzizi I transmission line, now owned by SNEL, would also be
financed from the proposed project. The transfer from SNEL to Regideso of
legal rights adequate to protect the interests of Regideso and the
Association would be a condition of disbursement for this component
(Schedule 1, 4(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Consulting Engineering Services
47.       Regideso would employ engineering consultants satisfactory to IDA
;(a total of about 110 staff-months) for the preparation of bid documents,
evaluation of bids and construction supervision for the power transmission                -
and distribution components (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
Management Assistance to Regideso
48.        On the basis of the conclusion of the management study, Regideso
is preparing an action plan to strengthen its management performance and to
improve  its  administra..ive  and  financial  operations.    It would  be a
condition of effectiveness of the credit that Regideso and the Association
have agreed on this plan of action (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).   The action program would be implemented
with the assistance of a management team, to be employed by December 31,
1985 (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 17 -
Invastment Program and Studies
49.       With the assistance of the management team, and of an engineering
consultant, a ten year least-cost development plan for investments in the
electricity sector, would be prepared. This plan would take into account
potential regional projects and demand, would be prepared by June 30, 1986
taking into account the views of the Association, and thereafter would be
reviewed with the Association annually (Section 4.03 (a) of the draft
Project Agreement). Regideso would not, without prior consultation of the
Association, commit itself to any single capital investment in excess of
USO5 million and would ensure that every Investment in the electricity
sector would be economically and financially justified (Section 4.03 (b) of
the draft Project Agreement). A study for defining optimal standards and
charges for electricity connections would be prepared by June 30, 1986,
reviewed with the Association within three months, and its recommendations
implemented promptly after completion of such exchange of views (Section
2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).   The project would also finance a
tariff study in 1987/1988, a revaluation of Regideso's assets at the end of
1984, and the audit and revision of Regideso's account for 1984. Audits
for 1985 and beyond will be financed from Regideso's own resources.
Training
50.       Regideso does not presently have a training program.  The project
would finance the building and equipment of a training center and technical
assistance to train the staff of the Technical and of the Administrative
and Financial Departments.   A Manager of Training and three  training
specialists and their counterparts satisfactory to the Association would be
appointed by October 1st 1985.5 and would initiate prior to September 1,
1986, a training program satisfactory to the Association for the
electricity department and the financial and administrative services of
Regideso (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Technical Assistance to the MPWEM
51.       Charcoal Stoves.  This component would continue in 1987 and 1988
the stove dissemination program which is to be launched under the ongoing
Urban Development Project (para. 31).
52.       Petroleum Imports.  The project would finance the services of an
advisor to MPWEM, to be employed by December 31, 1985, who would assist in
formulating strategies to obtain imported petroleum products at least cost,
develop pricing policies for the sale of these products within Burundi, and
train staff of the Ministry (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Estimates
53.         The total project cost is estimated at about US$21.8 million
equivalent, excluding interest during construction, of which US$17.0
million (78%) are foreign costs and US$4.8 million (22%), local. Interest
during construction would amount to US$2.7 million. Physical contingencies
of 10 were added to each component to provide an allowance for unforeseen



- 18 -
increases in the volume of work.  Price contingencies were added on local
costs as follows:   1985:18%;  1986:12%; and 1987-1988:10%; and on foreign
costs as follows: 1985:5%; 1986:7.5%; 1987:8%; 1987-1988:8%. In addition,
the eftect of the estimated difference in the domestic and international
in-'lation rates on the exchange rate of the BuF to the US$ over the
construction period of the project, was computed and added to the foreign
cost in the BuF tabulation. The cost of engineering services is estimated
to be US$1.0 million of which US$0.8 million would be in foreign exchange.
The cost of the services of the management team would be about US $0.8
million. A summary cost table appears in the Project and Credit Summary.
Financing Plan
54.       External financing, totalling US$19.6 million, would cover 9O0  of
the estimated project cost, representing 100% of the foreign exchange cost
and 53% of the local cost equivalent.   Base costs are in January 1985
prices.   The IDA  credit  of US$12.9  million would finance 56% of  the
estimated project costs and about 72% of the estimated foreign exchange
component.    The  IDA  credit  would  finance  the  construction  of  the
transmission  line  and  substations,   engineering  service,   management
assistance, part of the training component, the services of the petroleum
advisor,  the  cookstove  program,  and  studies.    It  is  expected  that
cofinanciers  would  provide US$7.3 million equivalent.   The CCCE would
finance  distribution  extensions  in  Bujumbura  and  the  construction  of
distribution extensions to the regional towns. Belgium is considering the
financing of the 30 KV subtransmission lines.   The Federal Republic of
Germany (GTZ) would provide technical assistance services and equipment for
training. Interest during construction amounting to US $2.7 million, would
be financed by the Government.   The Government would lend to Regideso
short-term funds necessary to meet the local costs of construction under
the project. These funds are estimated at US$2.1 million equivalent, to be
repaid by Regideso in four years (Section 4.01 of the draft Development
Credit  Agreement).    The  fulfillment  of  all  conditions  precedent  to
disbursement of cofinancier's funds would be a condition of effectiveness
of the credit (Section 6.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
55.                The  proceeds  of  the  IDA  credit  allocated  to  the
revenue-generating power component (US$12.0 million) would be relent by the
Government to Regideso for 20 years, including a five year grace period, at
an interest rate of 9.29 percent. Regideso would bear the foreign exchange
risk.   Signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
a/d Regideso would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section
6.Vi (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.        The materials and equipment including construction services, to
be financed by the proposed Credit would be procured in accordance with the
Association's  guidelines.       The  planned  procurement  procedures  are
summarized in Annex 4. The selection of experts and consultants would be
in accordance with the Association's guidelines.   The proceeds of the
Credit would be disbursed over five years on the following basis: 90% of
the total cost of the contracts for the 110KV transmission line, and the



- 19 -
Bubanza and Cibitoke sub-stations; 902 of the cost of construction and
equipment of the training center; and 1002 of the foreign cost of the
services of the petroleum adviser, of the cooking stove program, and of the
engineering services,  management assistance and studies.   In order to
ensure that funds would be made available when needed, a Special Account,
operated by Regideso and financed by the project, would be established in
the Bank of Burundi. An initial deposit of US$500,000 would be made from
the Credit at the time of effectiveness; the account would be replenished
on the basis of documentary and other evidence, to be provided to the
Aesociation by Regideso, of payments made from the account for goods and
services required for the project (Section 2.02 Cc) and Schedule 3 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Regideso's Finances
57.        Tariffs.  Electricity tariffs were last increased by 20 percent
in January 193    This increase is adequate to meet project and investment
requirements and yield a rate of return on net fixed assets of 3.82 in
1985, which would be an improvement over the 1984 performance.  Regideso
and the Government are now reviewing the tariff structure for electricity,
one of the objectives being that the average tariff would progressively
increase and approach the long run marginal cost of power by the mid
1990's. On the basis of this review, a new tariff structure, acceptable to
the Association, would be established and become fully effective by January
1, 1986 (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Credit Agreement). Thereafter,
Regideso and Government would review the tariff structure annually, and
modify tariffs as necessary to produce revenues sufficient to earn the
agreed rates of return on net fixed assets of not less than 4.0% in 1986
and 1987; 4.5% in 1988; 6.5% in 1989; 8% in 1990 and thereafter (Section
4.05 of the drafE Project Agreement). Water tariffs would be revised each
year to levels necessary to ensure that revenues from water supply
operations would cover operating expenses and debt service and provide a
reasonable   contribution   to   the  water  supply  investment  program,
representing no less than a percentage of overall capital expenditures over
a three year period as determined in the tariff study being carried out
under the Bujumbura Water Supply Project, financed by AfDB, and agreed with
the Association (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.            Arrears.   As of December 31, 1983 total receivables for
consumption of electricity and water were equivalent to eleven months of
billing. The amounts of receivables for electricity and water consumption
would be reduced to six months of billings by the end of 1986, and four
months of billings by the end of 1987, for Government and municipalities,
and would be reduced to four months of billings by the end of 1985, and
three months of billings for clients billed each month and four months of
billings for clients billed every two months by the end of 1986 (Section
4.08 of the draft Project Agreement). Agreement with the Association on an
action plan to reduce Government's and municipalities arrears would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
59.          During the period 1985 to 1989, total sales of Regideso are
projected to increase from 75 GWh to 116 GWh at an average annual rate of
11%.   Electricity tariffs are expected to increase in real terms at an
average annual rate of 10.5X.  The operating ratio would decrease during
the period from 77X to 57Z, because of the tariff adjustments and better
control of costs.   Based on its recent performance,  Regideso may have
difficulty for the next two or three years in generating adequate funds to
meet its cash requirements and finance its investment program, and may have
to undertake short-term borrowings from the Government or other sources to
ensure  coverage  of  all  operating  and  capital  investment  needs.    As
Regideso's present debt coverage performonce is only marginally acceptable
(para. 36), Regideso's total indebtness would be monitored carefully and
Regideso would not incur debt unless internal cash generated for the twelve
months preceding incurrence of the debt is at least 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for any succeeding year (section 4.07 of the
draft Project Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing
bO.            Regideso would have  its accounts audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association, and would submit to the
Association the audited financial statements and auditor's report as soon
as possible, and beginning in 1986 no later than six months after the end
of the fiscal year (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Regideso would continue to maintain separate accounts for its electricity
and water operations and would incorporate therein an annual revaluation of
its fixed assets in operatioa (Section 4.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Economic Benefits
61.         Construction of the transmission line is part of the regional
development program started with the construction of the Ruzizi project.
Therefore the economic rate of return for the project has been recalculated
for the overall regional power development program, on the basis of the
cost of the hydro facilities and the transmission distribution networks
planned for Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire, and is estimated to be about 8X,
based on an average regional increase of 10% in the demand for
electricity.   This is however, a very conservative estimate of the true
economic rate of return since there are consumer benefits which are not
captured in this estimate and which derive from the availability of
hydropower  rather than  higher-cost,    diesel-generated  power  that some
consumers would be ready to buy. Feasibility studies have concluded that
the proposed route for the 110 kV transmission line represents the least
cost solution.      For the substations  and subtransmission  lines  and
distribution in regional towns, economic analysis was carried out
separately for three project groups, and the following rates of return were
estimated; Cibitoke: 17X, Bubanza 11%, and Katumba 11%.  The rates of
return of the proposed distribution extensions for low income districts of
Bujunbura were found to be as follows: Cibitoke, 1OZ; Bwiza, 20%; Buyenzi,
14%; Kinama, 10; Musaga, 13%; Kamenge, 15%.



- 21 -
Risks and environmental considerations
62.         The physical risk associated with this project would be small
because the construction of the transmission and distribution facilities
would use commonly known and well-tried practices. The main risk would be
institutional, as Regideso Is a weak organization and may have difficulty
in managing the proposed project. However, this risk would be minimized by
the use of competent consultants to assist Regideso and by the recruitment
of a management assistance team.  The training component is expected to
increase  staff  skills,  particularly  during  the  later  stages  of  the
project.  The effects on the environment would be minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.         The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between REGIDESO
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.         Special conditions of the project are listed in section III of
Annex III of this Report.  Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) agreement between the Association and Regideso on an action plan to
strengthen Regideso's management; (b) agreement between the Association,
the Government and Regideso on an action plan to reduce the Government's
and municipalities arrears; (c) assurance that Burundi has obtained rights
necessary  for  the  construction,  operation  and  maintenance  of  the
transmission  line.    A  special  condition  of  disbursement  against  the
rehabilitation of the Bujumbura substations and Bujumbura-Ruzizi I
transmission line, would be the transfer of legal rights from SNEL to
Regideso.
65.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
April 18, 1985



22 -                                                 AIGAnnex I
T A    L e  3                                     Page  1  of  5
URNIDI                 - SOCAL INDICATORS DATA SHECT
mUIDI                                 RBMSESCS =FOUPS (tBbfhlT"D AV     ) La
OIITS                  (MST aNCUT ESTDIrAC  ) lb
RCNTi          LOW INCOM11 AFPRICA     MIDDLE T m
196bt   i97aLe       ESTWATLb          SOUTM or SAHARA     ARxCA *. or SAHARA
A L (TuSm  Q-. u)
TOSAL                                27.8      27.9          27.8
ACRICULTWUAL                         15.6      19.8         22.3
C1rn  CAPW   u (cum                     60.0    110.0         280.0 l/             249.1              1112.9
mcT aumumwiou MR CPITA
(KILOS A W OP OIL EQUIVALENT)         6.0       7.0         15.0                 62.6               59.0
FOPILATIOEAD AVITA  STATICS
POPULATION.NID-TYR (THOUDS)    2927.0   3350.0            4346 0
URDA  POPULATION (2 o0 TOTAL)         2.2      2.2           2:4  1/ 19.2                            29.7
POPULATION PRO3ECTIONS
POPULATION IN TA 200 (HILL)                                7.4
STATIONARI P')PULATION (HILL)                             26.7
POPULATION  YOM                                             1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. It.                       105.2    120.4          1-2.0 3/             32.5                55.9
PER SQ. Wt. ASh. LAND             188.2    179.2         190.0                119.2               111.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (XC
0-14 RltS                         42.6      43.8          44.2                45.6                45.4
15-64 YRS                          54.6     53.2          52.7                 51.5                51.7
61 AND AOVE                         2.9       3.0          3.1                  2.9                 2.9
POPULATION GROTH RATE (2)
TOtAL                               1.6       1.3           2.2                 2.8                 2.a
URAN                                1.8       1.3           2.8                 6.2                 5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RAE (PER TNCUS)          45.2      46.3         46.5                 49.6                47.0
CRUDE DEATH KATE (PER THOUS)         25.2      24.3         19.2                 17.7                15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.7       2.9          2.9                  3.2                 3.2
FAMILY PLUWNG
ACCEPTORS,  NUL (TOUS)
USERS (Z OF HARED WCN)                                    ..              .
FOOD AM N7rIe=N
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-1Wo)                       103.0    100.0          96.0                 85.6                91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIRENrS)         95.0    102.0          95.0                 86.4                98.2
PRTINS (GAMS PER DAT)              59.0     63.0          60.0                 49.9                56.7
OF 1IUCH ANMAL AND PULSE         29.0      31.0          31.0 /e             18.3                 17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          31.0      29.4         23.5                 23.8                 1J.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEMS)         38.6      41.5         46.5                 48.4                51.7
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER TOUS)       143.0    136.0         123.0                117.5               102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                ..        ..           ..                 21.8                 35.6
URIUN                                ..      77.0         94.0 1d              61.5                54.1
RURAL                                ..        ..           ..                 14.2                27.3
ACCESS TO EXCITA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        ..           ..                 32.0
URBAN                                ..     96.0          95.0 Jd              69.2
RURAL                                ..       ..            ..                 24.8
POPULATION PER PHISICIAM          989D0.0  5530.0       45020.0 la           27477.6             11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PRS0N             4640.0   7490.0        6180.0 77            3396.2              2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             900.0    740.0            ..               1019.0               986.9
URMAN                              30.0    110.0            ..                395.2               368.7
RURAL                            3810.0   1070.0            ..               3094.0              4012.1
A#MtSSIONS PCR HOSPITAL BED            ..       ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..        ..          4.3 /d
URBAN                                ..       ..           5.57d
RURAL                                ..        ..          4.3 7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/RO0H
T0TAL                                ..        ..
UBrN                                 ..       ..            .                     ..
RURAL                                ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z oF DOELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..        ..          0.6 Id
URBN                                 ..       ..          22.5 7.
;                     ~~~~RURAL                             ..        ..            .                    ..



- 23 -                                           Annex I
TAIL! 3I                                          Page 2 of 5
JWUIIDS         ~~~- SOCL'L  7 1                                              .
mi         ~              MeWJT         t"D  t xusm AlAos]L
ADJUUSD  HLRLh  RATIOS
PIAY      TAL.                    16.0      29.0         32.0                 69.2                91.0
HALE                    27.0     31.0          40.0                71.6                90.3
L                       9.0      19.0          25.0                37.6                73.6
*ICOUDARYa TOTAL                   1.0       2.0          3.0                 13.1                17.4
KALA                     1.0      3.0           4.0                17.6                23.7
DOULI                    1.0      1.0           2.0                 8.3                14.5
VOCATIONAL (Z OP SZCONDT)           35.0      13.6         15.7                 7.2                  5.3
PUflLX-TAOIE  PtATLO
PRIMARY                           36.0      37.0         39S0                 46.1                36.6
*SCGNUtAY                         15.0      11.0        2160 /c               Z5.9                24.3
ADULL  LITERACT RATE (Z)            13.9 Lf    ..          25.0                 44.3                35.6
PASSCBENR CARS/TROUSAND POP          1.0       I.I          1.3 I               3.6                 20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUEAND POP          ..      19.4         36.5                41.9                100.8
TV  ECEIVERBTOUSAND POP               ..        ..           ..                 2.0                 1.
NEWSPAPER (SDAILT GENEAL
INTEREST-) CIRCUTION
PE THOUSAND PONILA1TON              ..       0.1          0.4 |               5.4                 17.2
CINDI  AUIAL ATTZNDANJCZCAPITA       0.1 /f   0.0           0.0                 1.4                 0.3
TOTAL LA   FORCE (THOUS)          1534.0   1676.0        2032.0
FDIALE (PERCENT)                  45.9      45.3         44.6                36.5                 33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             90.0      67.0         64.0                 77.4                57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.0       4.0          5.0                 9.8                 17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PZRCEZT)
TOTAL                             52.4      50.0         46.8                 41.0                36.3
HALE                              56.3      56.0         53.2                 52.1                47.6
FPUKLE                            46.9      44.4         40.6                 30.2                25.1
ECNOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9       0.9          1.0                 1.2                  1.4
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IlCaU
RECEIVCED F
HICHST 52 OF ROUSEWLOS              ..
HICGEST ZO OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LowEST ZOS OF SOUSEIS               ..        ..
LOWEST 40S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
ESTIMATED ARSOLUTE POVRY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URSAN                               ..        ..        213.0 /b             16S.3               525.3
RURAL                               ..        ..        136.0                90.8                249.0
ES1I1MTED REIATIVE POVERTIY INCOME
LEVEL (Uss PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        ..           ..                107.7               477.4
RURAL                               ..        .          37.0 lb             65.0                186.0
ESTIMATED POP. ILW  ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                               ..        ..         55.0 /h             34.7
RURAL                               ..        ..         S5.0 7E             65.4
..  NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages fo; each indIcator .re pnpulation-vagbhted arithtmtic mamn. Coverage of countrIes mog the
IndIcators deped' on avsilabilicy of data and la not unlform.
lb   Unlearn otherwise noted, -Dots for 1960- refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Mot Decant Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1979; /s 1975; /f 1962; I, 1976; l 1978.
The following figures reflect the mat recent ailable *asmteat                                          JUNE. 1964
11 240; 2/ 5;  3/ 155.



- 24-                                                                        Annwx I
mmcci  cliatic at.  es sec at, Its .aet ~eatewMenvee                 V Ic-Mgeccca                                        a,         *          a-ge=. of   5
me...4&1"& IISAI....4M    fl-Plro"0..Miv I.ol.t  ec caebce4lmle  icdI ntilb.. it cale"' m'sc em aced tUa hat                I        is.-     ef.tmt.wadiaccmlo.
aancptlc  es.aa  ci le  cwl aiadeeled  altal leaad mcapt.acadby dl-.ianasci-ac  a. sllVetmu em d...  l  atams Ie.caaahalsa. marae 
decit.sedn a cgladi meIc. caicad.  tad itpecieecc  earltsi  calc  deticracts. Iecac  a.c- ec.
lb. nea.-   d n sac NItL at. e-   -atipY NOcW..  atM-1a. a          -ia  .'Vc -d Ill  sicacets ceast    tickcaat heat.. ceae.e  L.csi thea th  -clay cdow ci lb-
ecbsa  itchy  maccpa far Nio  la-cat I lcpn.ra  aesap Moec 'IldcTasttcvc  m   et  o                              seaaba..   lscI Icc.clac
atetmilat.  Cc- chapcleaeasea  jar. eta Poorn. N   . si Ppclels          CeWtm I sLeaosli Sm.-d fat catb      6 i lets, Nl sd ac. -dci. mic  laltec, S  at.l .eaea.ea "I
rag t.  dee. .e etc easeealar  isa   th  aeci,   ciW. aThee.acea  at.- . lilac   dINaad  aI. c-ccl take Il t .1 dc.tOlic  aie.ci.t cc ha
eatecd  e aset sand   spI.Ia- ew-ee  -   salSLAM.  ooe. ssci     act, n i'i.I           Icapaateaac   F- ads...  MaCace-s-at  Iii tsalkpda
laeala dccco.-klwSua                          ,I.fi.  ..                          fmaltlmc cm J- ata1l,;Ptai    aamcl   tea   wcaht.   esa
slateCI%I      c-   seleten WI       e    tecreareM m--    sesci mr-Sate ca  las.  arciacs. psetat. sceleas   se-                        paei  eSeca. ca
eat..                  w  l ors mice  'as..           kwal.1                     IAcjfisttiL.a             IM~  a..I...  ...ced icE-t peas NIcci  elct                                        0
stm ea-rcreu  eeal.a  wea   aee   ics                                              aett eam S     meta Not1mg.maac  tadW         ' pe WetPadS leisttll tad
1.. P.1.1-    NNSW   a VaSal kt"...ace..emm"mat  Laslrsc    tal.  iaplIet.. beer.- ealed --PSIth ad.
s.d  -aalaasIaateeae  maLmeecaO..     oe all sqtsac             Aptem  JaIM.                p-eaei S emeiaad eases `N1 -Iat-I e tamlmla..
writ. tad ltam a.                                                                        2" M1         97t 0ate eU k   di Nc. aws."c ta..
MOI M s p     M _RR            a .)  Ac c    I.m mc maca. maac. cci ma              ma
lwb.         ;.qtt. .11   MN t. t.:,R.p4q.3  sqataalatt.d  caaaa  r   ectts.-  ssasar..Ia   ema
&icaadctteea i ck.-    -v cNeO             mpeailcm  dii                             sa  eamesit maltNPI. A 1esedir-mda me--a    a aiddI
eciceefitc  lice  man, u ad                                    Vides.                      t.-mv atldrcaclimel-a .rpcI
tnisle!Nlafllaa.                                                   isseact~~~~~~~1   mes.  ersca.  t     ce      e.      ccess      Mata  aMah
miSiUeia,aif5all -allct Peadtett  peatieca"        eta keamd -tlowm  pnam  tr   em   mctchs. adne I. stptdccaal
"WRIU MMuth- sa -aII  a  that, --smm, cad lang LA.,                                doatlmsara. nMeamaamit. balca   asee  a-aiamee  .aaea  o
Inice. Pacjeall  pNNNN-ten  Par maeNI.tlp  Nesit-s     & c ct.   thin                   oaccipitd0 peesa.
-aSt..9 lpL-L.et C-a.iact LI           t, siteoPa te11A ae.9.   t   .1.m                me  -ta-d, atIat  aeseam dctie   : scactlate.N Io
esl cias  isll r.      op l if=lt1"i leach ice P-J-ilma Pp"eaa.                      ace  1callte  ftee i
ItJaginsa    C   a                    I Su  as- at m-apaccite maeet                       1w_jlStmmadatsateCa        ea   et.mt. a  acacl
iii IeiesMaccd- an        INEa PIced.  NtA. ta-apeteis  accee                        setaatimaae  ali  aette last a.pres                          f 51recct.I
,ccce hea aNI-altsa-SLr iaalaad Mtepltasa laat   fa-lts                                   peemafotoaaal'-as pPdIematI  acate  maccads  e4edn_ nd c-am
rwapeabit, ease-mi.  it cast c papalotts. cha tIck peta Is  -ma.t-                        pac. It        ldfar dmiin"ctl meNact. at Po=ea  chettlta  fe
ad sceat cm ci. decO  sea.. Its9 adcirceta  Lc st-a  P-sal. ad it.                         C-a'llrso meat mamlcec edcetcc a 4cllsrl as. aaacd it.psa
t-eIkel  I"i.i.cStse   aeslacmasslcse   t                                                  l     a  pWpets eva hals- Wtea tea aticeisl  aa.tI as.
hata  r Lch  Pcajac,d11  It- sticielc ta c  I   paasacs  It ct.-t  -sc              iccd..ccI-  cd   em   a   set    am                    o  taiaacd
Was,  af  Wat.re.ad daatiaarcitaemmc  eaac   clcem   a                                    edarlec mpclic -   saa  Cci pn 51antIprcte 'IN-I                 all
Pasames L"n sacte   - it It. M"."si  fe  pNW.mcse  death I. ceaem                           P_:a.ad. 2-smt eaelat  emttpatca                        em Coi.e
marane       Saaaea1  heam     aacctdasnt Nlsme.                                tsstpItm  acalaca  imet.  ,  anet4- mscmm   ctras
t'aa Scaeaels eta  Carl II.  easas satetrasII maa  etc e*t                        ttaeadetem           ccrsc   ea.Pmdaltla.ca
.cmmc.  tht ea.eesm.eahaa.ti  tSor.                                                                                       c.Sra-el.  .etattaataIe
Novit .tece.                                                                          tcaavadarae-  aa  ma.aeN me   e-.amc  h
as. e.   I`144.pd I eiai.cma  .at citatiea   i5heetc  aaeetpshd                                     l5aIm-..c-..
IapII   ha. crstwi   a --C tda  htIc  dcrmtmttet ta                                       S ptaWct                'L..siad    pvlaeItt  Seed 1%it . Wa asi s.
sit   Wm. ear NaImU  des..
vamittamis  iticeaa   meecl f- CIlidea il-1t yat). macmrma-a  ti-                   UapI
taalsc,minc. lmc,. a'   mS dtee.                                                    eae Lccta  teat ta   ame  aem:.atdi-hesea   eea. cad
icaittlc Cecat tea. (ettssL -Ng Iat. si  eatmi    ...s1a add-                       sfltacy7 tatesla.o
pac pala Sa.c dao. tii-dm le      ma  zc)                                       ad. le-eese  Cas- mt    tlia       5  a am                _I_f .4 .ceacie  se
Palotact  Cial teVi       esa    ra       -jaee   ac   n.cc  cet.e~;- -                     ha.set  5  ae!    I  pe t- S. i h p.ali.-gamaisads
Cadscle t e  tar eniUd)   - a It-lc  tInt. ar eha-a .i SON-                                 s-  ma t. acastt ac.e. No  i-ts  panN;  ma, alt he etpsi  I-es  mat
Pam  picacaalsl lta 5~~a ad iii)d-.                                             asa-elac ske1Icd eLsecata,
Ceada  ttt les iccesteccede  I a -i  ac. per tIsa-d cI sdl--pa                                     %-tatsaal  t.Wa ct-LICsI-  TV  -&-toce  fa  icdn 
"actlctfci   Wt etestdiaMAsM!  Acis   tav tasen  ccctLc aI                                                                             tM mteadp   crcc
Wr= eaeat.hs     en   matNI.a If dattlan                " nsit MaSt en                            S-isne     a . sapat a.6  ragtte-I=La  ra   a   ai  l
taNco!cpflta  &-Mis  sea.i.ccpa-aecatl                                         ma.c   tcija  crtadaaiala  - Use aC  taa
itlteelis-it   taec  ecemc   lg ito IWeO, life, sa                                 lestt   tdti   asl  aee   cmpa`d-la         peac
P,M t  lmmc-isaaa    c    ebae       cs    -a    eteat haNNU  daW NINNCI I.I eaSt  ce leasd  adMt in. csccslsew
44trksattdnt.st  ntpia  at actees  PIRY PIi.pSaai.c                                     ita.te.)Atrd.                Cielce -  Vei.-  len   m-  t      d -i  e
Peale pleama - tan Ic=.c  ofspId   e a-RN        L- lweactse io  ctltta -Liot                        tal..
sal-ce cai -hais  a           L.5 te    atea r-    arso tacead  anY                                                 .Ib
tksd-ttrtda--   acvat- W               (NAI-   mt-si.L c-tetcat "-.P..IamMllI t                                          No.-c.  -issa -ett   s as -esa  me-lada NW ca
marla   m SaCpttese 'NA  M    a-nd1          " e ash." ac-rn.  Mr                             i F aL.eden 9 tws.ai. ctmcalt. s.c0.8 -ari
ise ca ascatna.                                                 sarsntlsl lace. mall ad till des.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.It.-1f_    lto  170-d'a
eels  d em an a-Ltat).  Mivsac.  piotastla  SC -No Cao-tv it                                                 -dtisIp   ct   aSi   ca reae -4Ie  Lake  feast mIe. sac.
taaa  -  -stIts   sea   aciae  el  -stse. tics-e1.ta  N. aof AMa                          a  mmcm dec
ft. -c      II        1Q _df....clemit   I    terai-mc.sI.am   at   rctterat   c
ase c isit  Ci asMZcels                   A'iaki INS sey as  aIa  e                   poesNWc  PC tNu5. act. a  Cast. WcacllM  of sIt asaW ecpa"ttyi.
da.loasitla cppulc    ails  da-a.ie eaadsaln. t-llol  I=t.a         W                  Its.i. 1mm. se_tat ddt. TM-c ca  I=sa   - ffla  tcclsmCI- -_aI
.aPNNNIa. sad  I     J. it.sA.  Mel -maptlac c-A."d  ealsi m        -o.ms.dgm ealsls   a-a.raccts.. PC ate aacic   d Leoc Ita te-d.A
itNs-lets -    ta icead salamcaac.. adl Inn   Ia dlmsflt.ml-.  iclc.'Pa   cct.s  e  fin atlas   se
acs.ano at.d  e PS lad ac aaaistnacl   a    s. -l                  trSSJ  rA-  1.0   - tell. SC pepsimea  -tsr mIS sad C ted sect.
as -  Nad ccc  ItmIbeca PC P".elsla         "1151ll le peoact. ic- -sit
t taSPsId! -l.t act1-cs. If"c ad mm cc.
Pa. amaia asIc c  cvc.e.t  Care  -   ee - e'st". sc-st ci Ipoe -apita.eaa Pltciesit 1w eat sad elsE)     sllcd we  lcma I
am tmpply cC fan a   dee   m ni          c    ad it deltald -   bcc. Ni-               aes- reha  Nccee. allacma so P-..ap    madNaaaS 50 P.-sm  PC
itm.C   Car cit maeaes  t.eSm!esed by ssw Pa pvod Ca  Cam.k-i
sli i NIF man J siF act.! posecta pc dej ted 10 dieee PC seal sd
tisadah an   ar cb  Ibam  or 71 cam  cC Ist! pecoel ad it er-s                   Sk aiancseo    n  a   aet                      tc Ca c   - vc eaI-I. .
.C  -WAca p.c`"l        --,sa  Cc lb~ acri. leWam-d by re  amc.                           citeid haW aepac   Lft made aa-cis-
IbLS chaSe Psd sliyg  iic-cici  a8 tWO ds-e                                             rstated allah   Panice ama lst1m areseleM                 -ae.        nei
ChtWid St=s 1.41  eso  tie(9 testlima) - a-si death  pea Itset  .d Iaisiated Ilelatia P-aM .c Icea  lama (gm .crtd-mk    dna
as g.s  a-A p S.tntlem   t  c.a    cn   s APjos      it = etcgta    ae A-astop lameNN &its   tc-anc   weaa    s
flec dte detacd eta U1c teh-Is  tan.  R70 ado il dss                                   ancI .t  ci t. Sntw-  let.  -Las  l* d.etd iCM It.  -ae
P-,W  Mh- .9 WI- of lif.~                      ~    ~ ~~~~~ata  mikejasa   c   ua  ma. ci1.ccI.ch   as
.4*UF t-teren all USr.  (castes) - mart   at. ScE poalct.    lad Mt.ae                        ttrt-eea   Cpeelanmc   desDa.amcalm
I-r - - 1Imacil its.Jad tacadlcc-
ollaseacIt  -al   maolt"   W tat  ilpama   -M aria oed   efis  cpisa  ma                                                                      J    m
asia. mat)- p7 aesslidaao _1 shalt &VApati toacaeiss_l. its.
masm  it -ta ItSM  asamtt  s-a    -Id eppir ifet. Noocai. -
MONta 51 Ike ft-said de adI has o c. cNr  dttpsocactisss aoll PC
S. deja is roasting a. Cadipa ems aide.
Acrc- a cec. tooqlt      l(ae.      cC t-Iccice) ateoc       ac ..a   ac
perS.ama .1 ".aI, eaafsoaecldefs.d ESe-as dllcsci o &tamE.
d. sIhasiem cad 411.ersce. mitt W- cLfa                 SC- cItNc  ees
adsat we Nalla-bce ipate - SuNo ma PIC5 pWcfles ad



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
unT
COUNTRY DATA
27,865 kj2                          4.3 zUin l  l (uId 1982)                       155 12 of zta ama
. Agrial.te 17,20D h2               R    of w8nth 2AZ  (1977-2)
PaMM= UNATIOE            1980                                    IAUHE (17)
Crude BL8th Rate (per 1,000)        45                          Pqxzatin per lIWicmi    45,02O
Cn.e Daath Rxte (per 1,000)          22                         8,pulatio per hmspttl bd    744 (1970)
YS MD PMED MM                                                   A   ID MEECIrY
Urm pqiuiatias. 2                    94                         2 of paplai  - toa             2Z
- rui           MK
N     nW N (1974-78)                                            WLU= (1978-)
CalorLe izzalre - Z of zwquremms    99                          Ault lteny rate Z             25.0
Per capita protein   a   (gm/day)  61                           Pdmq  aduol S-rolmit Z        30.0
a/
! lV CPM  l   IN 1983w MSM240
QCE  DIISC E2=                                                  AIUL RNM  OF COMM (Z, LLtr prECe)
1983 Val
uSs EJnim       _              1970-77              1978-63
a1P at N)rket pdc                    1,110.3       100.0               3.1                 2.5
Orms ltic   3iretmIt                  141.1         12.7              28.3                 8.4
Q    1ss  9tiotu Savhv                 12.6          1.1               17.7                3.1
Qwvit Acoat efird                    -130.8        -11.8                                  27.5
Ecporta of Gods, GES                  107.8          9.7              -1.9                  5.5
]qrts of Gads, GCS                    261.0         23.5               7.7                 6.0
Umrr. Lm  icv AMl wiv          Y WI Z98
Val*   added                r  FM=             V.A. per vorirer
$ XLIe                      1 '00                   w       X
4gdcultue                             5a5.2         58.8        1,762         S2.3       337.8   71.5
ITuskty                               164.2         16.2          270         12.6       608.1  128.6
*           SewIce                                252.7         25.0          109          5.1     2,318.3  490.4
Toth(ateruq                        1,012.1       100.0        I4           100.0       7      ICO.O
(lik 1ff11       Per eiit ofGD
1983       1983       1978-2
oirre    wu Revm                    12,858          12.5       14.6
Qxet  Emw um                        13,470          13.1       12.0
Otmit 9urpl                          -612           -0.6        2.6
Capil lxMitue b/                    16,6%           16.2       11.6
ExterLh A sta                      (12,424)         12.1       (7.4)
a/ At1  Imtdolaw.
h  Trim      iMb1 epterprise, fip f            po s, adet rqe*c         .
*        . ~~lI2t applicale
Not avalable.
Nte: AU   ereiow toa         In this tblde are at de avege FMO per US$ ohage zie
pmaliig dmring tbo pedlal aoen,l.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
MU, = and   ES                 1978       1979        1980         1981        1982      1983
?bu am! Quindib                      9,696    11,034       12,681       15,698      15,378   19,452
ik cdreit bt Cutal Goveriul          1,5t8     3,860        4,496        7,178       9,344    12,355
Rank credit to Private Sector        5,835     8,367        9,793       12,760      12,976    14,570              4
(Parwite    or Inded  N&bers)
Nbay and (uasi-4bya Z of QP           17.7      15.7         14.7         17.6        16.8      18.9
hla I PFn    e di is ln:
General Price idex                    27.3      25.5         12.3         12.0         5.7       8.3
Blk credit to Public Sectr           715.1     156.0         16.5         59.7        30.2      32.2
Book cmeit to Private Sector         115.0      43.7         17.6         29.6         0.3      12.3
BALANC OF PAf1                                                         !SNE  E         5E ((AVRAGE 1978-83)
1979   1980   1981   1982 1983                           U3S  tl1LiU     %
(Mi   [US Dollas)
Exports (gWnfs)                    112      74     89    108  100   CoFfee                  70.5       87.8
Torts (ghlfs)                      193    205    20B    261  257   Cotton                    2.4       2.9
RPeource gq  (deficlx r )                                              Te -a   - =if  = i3T   7  2.2   2.8
All otbar camt ditiL  5.2        6.5
LTerest paynms (net)                4       9       7       3    4
Iabor inaan                        -14    -16    -24    -31  -29                 MM aL      803       Ii0.o
Ne trsfexs                          34     47      48      50   45
galare      curent a:at            -57      1    88    -131  -3
Direct fDreiga investmezs            -      1       1       2     1   EMEIL  Mr,  m            31, 1983
Capital gR1s                        25     3,      39      37   40
Net NX  Drst  a/                   39      41      29     51   94
Disbursements                     42     45      32      54   98                                   US"n
Aaization                          3      4       3       3   4         UbUc Debt, incl. gerantei   284.0
Otber caoptal (net)                 -    -10       -6      -3    16     rurad Private Debt
Otber ItPne NE:                    -11      7      -5      11  -17.  Ibtal outstalin    & Dlsb.
ITrreae in net xmerves  (-)          4      6      32      34  -16  Sr siz RAno ap. 1983 b/ X
Gross reserves (end year)           86     90      72      42   54  PihUc DEbt, Enl. garsteed   10.0
Noa  kirantaed Private Debt
T9orts of pecroleun produs          13     25      32      30   29   Tbta outstdimng and disb.
IDA EMD, Septemiber 30, 1984
(MLIiii0 US Dollars)
RAIE (F EMAMM-                                                                                         IDA
Chtsaemlizig & DOsbursed        125.4
US$1 - FBu 90  1976-November 23, 1983                                   ilsb                           70.9
DiztstafiInluing 
SER- Fail3  aNrber 23, 193-prelent                                      unLisbursd                     196.3
a/ IBM Debt Reporting Systm.
b/ Patio of Debt Seice to EBports E  ods sfD   d   factor Servil.
Not available.



- 27 -
Annex II (Page 1 of 2)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of September 30, 1954)
Amount
A       Loan or                                                    US$million
Credit                                               (less cancellations)
Number      Year   Borrower       Purpose         Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and ten credits fully disbursed        4.8   45.53
731 BU      1978   Burundi    Development Bank    -        3.40      0.12
918 BU 3/   1979   Burundi    Forestry             -       4.30      0.47
976 BU      1980   Burundi    Second Education    -       15.00      0.84
1049 BU     1980   Burundi    Urban Development   -       15.00      7.54
1058 BU     1980   Burundi    Telecommunications  -        7.70      2.74
1132 BU     1981   Burundi    Third Highway        -     25.00       3.23
1154 BU     1981   Burundi    Nickel Exploration  -       4.00       0.71
1165 BU 4/  1981   Burundi    Kirimiro Rural
Development       -      19.30     11.28
1192 BU     1982   Burundi    Integrated Rural
Dev.lNgozi III    -      16.00     11.48
1230 BU     1982   Burundi    Local Construction
Industry          -      5.20       3.51
1358 BU 3/  1983   Burundi    Third Education      -      15.80     10.09
1419 BU     1983   Burundi    Ruzizi II Regional          15.00     13.79
1456 BU 5/  1984   Burundi    Third Technical
Assistance               5.10       5.10
Total                               4.8   196.33     70.90
Of which has been paid         4.8      0.32
Total now outstanding           0.0   194.46
Amount sold 1.55
of which has been repaid 1.55
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                0.00  194.46
Total undisbursed                                70.90



- 28 -
Annex II (Page 2 of 2)
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of September 30, 1984)
Type of            Amount In USS Million
Year      Obligor         Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1981      Verreries du    Glass container    4.8      0.8       5.6
Burundi
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       4.8      0.8       5.6
Total comitmeDts now
beld by IFC                                4.8      0.8       5.6
Total undisbursed                             1.1     0.1       1.2
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the lake
port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
31 The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$1.2 million.
41 Including a NORAD Grant participation of US$5.8 million.
5M Not yet effective.



- 29 -
Annex III
(Page 1 of 2)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
BURUNDI
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification         :      October 1982
(b)  Project Preparation           July 1983
(c)  Appraisal Mission             July 1984
(d)  Negotiations           :      MarchlApril 1985
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:       December 1985
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
-    Engineering services to be provided for the preparation of
bid documents (para. 45)
-    Management assistance team to assist in implementation of
action program to strengthen Regideso's management and
improve its administrative and financial operations
(para. 48).
Section III: Special Conditions
-    investment program to be reviewed annually with the
Association (para. 49)
-    Regideso would not, without prior consultation of the
Association, commit itself to any capital investment in
excess of UF$5 million and would ensure that every
investment in the electricity sector is economically and
financially justified (para. 49)
-    annual review of tariff levels (para. 57)
-    reduction of arrears on receivables (para. 58)
-    unless otherwise agreed with IDA, Regideso would not incur
any new debt which would result in debt service coverage
ratio of less than 1.5 (para. 59)
-    the Government would lend to Regideso funds necessary to
meet its share of the local construction costs (para. 54)



- 30 -
Annex III
(Page 2 of 2)
recruitment of management assistance team (para. 48),
consulting engineers (para. 47), trainers (para. 50), and
an adviser for petroleum imports (para. 52)
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) agreement between the Association and Regideso on an
action plan to strengthen Regideso's management
(para. 48); and
(b) agreement between the Association, the Government and
Regideso on an action plan to reduce arrears (para. 58).
(e) Burundi to obtain from Rwanda and Zaire, the rights
necessary for the construction, operation and mainterance
of the Transmission line (para. 43).
Section V: Special Conditions of Disbursement
-   For the rehabilitation of the Bujumbura eubstation and the
Bujumbura-Ruzizi I transmission line: tne transfer of
adequate legal rights from SNEL to Regideso (para. 46)



- 31 -
Airmex I
Procurement Arag   8et   /
Ba* uildelines
for             Other         Disbursuet
Project Items b/               ICB        Ibnultants LCB MethDds Total from IDACredit
1. llOkV trani ssion Line 5.7 (5.25)        -         -      -           90% of toLal cost
2. Bub=na substatimo        2.2 (2.0)       -         -      -           90% of total cost
3. Fzgineering Services        -          1.2 (1.0)   -      -           100l  of foreign currency cost
4. Mnnlgem  ssistanme         -           1.5 (1.3)   -      -            100% of foreign currenqy ccst
5. Studies                     -         0.25t0.2)    -      -           100% of foreign currency cost
6. Trainirg                 1.3 (1.3)       -         -     0.8          90% of total cost of
castruction anxl edpnt
7. Cibitoke substatinn      1.1 (1.0)       -         -      -           90% of total cost
8. Distribution in 6
distris of Bujumbura    -              -         -     4.9
9. 30 kV lines                 -                             i -  1.6
10. Distxibutimu in
regioal towrs            -             -         -    0.9
11. PetrolJe,n adviser         -           0.15(0.1)  -       -           100% of foreigp carrency cost
12. Rbllow up of disseination  -           0.2(0.15)       -  -            Z100  of foreign cirrency cost
Total                   1D.3(9.55)      3.3(2.75)   -    8.2    21.8
a/ FiYgres in parentheses are the annmits proposed to be financed by DM
b Estimates of costs inclidirm  cotingencies.



_  UlD uIl:IA
BURUNDI
POWER PROJECT
Bujumburo Arms to be Electrified                                                         RwV
Hydro Staison
V~Pragci Areas
WIti/kUbanize Areas
Eaii.Iing Pawer Lines
_                                                        a70kV
lb  ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~        -     35 kV
Faw, , Li_es Unde Canstruc
C110 W
intenatl aund'ries                 ' /   /      K     
I'~~~~~~~~FimRrz 
~~~~n~~
7 ~  ~    ~     A~~
J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI /f//
3~~~
KLW.WiISS
WA'S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITX
b__ _ _ _ _  _ _  _  _  _ _           
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itl
2r ~ ~ ~                                                 ,                                  Hv//ISlot
'I-rIsc,-..~~~~~~~~~~~16



IBRD 1851
BURUNDI               3%,UGANDA t
POWER PROJECT                                                   I              \ /
-.00    ~ ~  ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        Z~>k'.~                      K EN YA
b                                                                        N  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
it.K
:r                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5
40uw  ~             w       d B :                f              <'-D--    
op-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'h
,, g- .</ 7 3-.
kuao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
BMW Usi-,,  \   G niln e O 4 S O l W   ;   g     < ; eUNDER
_C      -     Hydra PowePlsm
S    Te theel B_r Plant& MetalI
(        0        0    ~~~~~~~~~Subsno;,ons
So0 kV Troa.s.aon L.nes
k55lV 7o.an.n.mon Lines
35
*  \>>XiC ERSono J pr { _ _ _ft                                         30 3 V;    
15 30 kV To.anasm,sn  Lines
R.-ga~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  15 kV Tmansu,woan Line
Pr-w"rv Roads
\,  \   Mobombc  |      /            N                             Secondory Roads
_   Inrernot,onal Boondones
c- _  _           ~           j       vzo  |           wvKILOMETERS 0                           2i         5.0        75
MIIIES0     10    20      io  ;        50
30                                              31N
NOVEMBER 1984



