OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1593 BU
D)OCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1593 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   /          , 1985, between
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (MAe Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) a part of the Project will be carried out by the R6gie
de  distribution  d'eau  et d'&lectricitg    (REGIDESO) with   the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such        assistance, the
Borrower will make available to REGIDESO the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Poject Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and REGIDESO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and REGIDESO of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and REGIDESO pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(c)  "Project   Preparation  Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 23, 1984,
January 13, 1985 and February 6, 1985 between the Borrower and
the Association; and
(d) "Special Account" means the account to be maintained
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account 'in accordance with the provisions of
this Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended fron time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and B
of the Project, cause REGIDESO to maintain in dollars a special
account in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and


﻿-3-
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in. each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1995, and ending January
15, 2035. Each installment to and including the installrdent
payable on January 15, 2005, shall be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such princi-
pal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. Except in respect of Part C of the Project,
REGIDESO is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall carry out Part C of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and technical practices, shall caur.
REGIDESO to carry out the remainder of the Project and to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the other obligations of REGIDESO therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate so to carry out such Part C of the Project and to
enable REGIDESO to perform such obligations and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit,
except the portion thereof allocated to Part C of the Project, to
REGIDESO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and REGIDESO, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, which shall
include a rate of interest of 9.29 percent per annum, a term of
twenty years including five years' grace and the assumption of
the exchange risk by REGIDESO.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services


﻿-5-
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that in respect of Parts A and B of the Project, the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by
REGIDESO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 3.01 above, the Borrower
shall ensure that REGIDESO be provided as and when needed with
such funds as shall be necessary to meet the costs of
construction under the Project, such funds to be repaid by
REGIDESO within four years.
Section 4.02. Under Part C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ by December 31, 1985 an advisor to the Ministry
responsible for energy to assist in formulating strategies for
importing petroleum products at least cost, to develop sound
pricing policies for the domestic marketing of such products and
to train staff of the Ministry; such advisor and his terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association and he shall
be selected as provided in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   REGIDESO shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿-6 -
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
REGIDESO will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) Decree No. 1-196 of the Borrower, dated October 2,
1968, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
REGIDESO to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower-or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of REGIDESO or for the suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and REGIDESO;
(b) the Association and REGIDESO have agreed upon a plan of
action to strengthen its management, improve its administrative
and financial operations and implement corrective measures, based
on the results of the current management diagnosis study;
(c) the Borrower, the Association and REGIDESO have agreed
upon a plan of action to achieve the reduction in arrears of
Government and Municipalities set forth in Section 4.08 of the
Project Agreement;
(d) the Association has been informed that all conditions
precedent  to   the  initial   disbursement  of   the  respective
contributions of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Caisse Centrale de
Coop6ration Economique, and the Federal Republic of Germany to
the financing of the Project have been fulfilled; and
(e) the Borrower has obtained from the Rwandese Republic
and the Republic of Zaire rights sufficient to allow free access
to their respective territories, as necessary, for the construc-
tion, operation and maintenance of the transmission line from
RUZIZI II to Bubanza.


﻿-7-
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by REGIDESO. and is legally binding upon REGIDESO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and REGIDESO, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and REGIDESO in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraph (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for public
works, energy and mines is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Mines
B.P. 745
Bujumbura
Burundi


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINITRAP                           5048 BDI
BUJUMBURA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Construction and           5,200,000        90%
erection of sub-
stations and
transmission lines,
Part A of the
Project
(2) Rehabilitation of            310,000        100% of foreign
Bujumbura sub-                             expenditures
station and
Ruzizi I -
Bujumbura Trans-
mission line
(3) Construction and             410,000         90%
equipment of train-
ing center, Part B
of the Project
(4) Engineering, manage-       2,990,000        100% of foreign
ment and training                          expenditures
consultants; studies
(5) Petroleum advisor            210,000        100% of foreign
and cooking stoves                         expenditures
dissemination,
Part C of the
Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6)  Special Account             520,000        Amount to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 3 of
this Agreement
(7) Refunding of                 970,000        Amount due under
Project Preparation                        Section 2.02 (b)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                2,290,000
TOTAL          12,900,000
2.    To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (7)
above is in excess of the amount due, the excess will be reallo-
cated to Category (8).
3.     For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; or
(b)  Category (2) above until the Borrower or REGIDESO has
obtained legal rights over the Bujumbura substation and the
RUZIZI I to Bujumbura transmission line adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and of the Association.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of,the Project are to improve the reliability
of supply of electricity to Bujumbura and its environs, by
providing transmission and distribution facilities to receive an
additional source of power (Ruzizi II) to serve additional
consumers, with a view towards sustaining and improving the
economic growth of the industrial, commercial and domestic
sectors of the country. In addition, the provision of management
assistance to REGIDESO, establishment of a training center and
the training of REGIDESO staff, would result in improved service
and financial performance through better operating, financial and
maintenance practices.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A    Power transmission and distribution
(1) Construction of about 83 km of 110 kV transmission line
from the Ruzizi II plant to Bubanza;
(2) Construction of 110/30 kV substations in Bubanza and
Cibitoke, two 30 kV transmission lines (42 km) to supply the
regional towns of Rugombo, Mparambo, Mpanda and Muzinda, a 15 or
30 kV feeder to Katumba and distribution networks in these tows;
(3) Construction of distribution networks to consumers in
six low-income districts of Bujumbura: Ewiza, Buyenzi, Cibitoke,
Kamenge, Kinama and Musaga; and
(4)  Rehabilitation of the transmission line from RUZIZI I
to Bujumbura and of the Bujumbura substation.
Part B    Management; training
(1) Carrying out by REGIDESO of the plan of action to
strengthen the management of REGIDESO described in Section 6.01
(b) of this Agreement;
(2) Construction and equipment of a training center and the
training of staff of REGIDESO's Technical, Administrative and
Financial Departments, including vocational training in existing
positions as well as training in new technologies;


﻿- 13 -
(3) Carrying out by REGIDESO of a study to define standards
and charges for electricity connections, a study of electricity
tariffs in 1987-1988 and the preparation of a ten-year investment
plan for the electricity sector, all under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association;
(4) Carrying out of a reevaluation of REGIDESO's assets in
1985; and
(5) Audit and revision of REGIDESO's accounts for 1984.
Part C    Petroleum policies of Ministry; cookstove efficiency
(1) Establishment by the Ministry responsible for energy of
optimum strategies for the importation of petroleum products and
for their domestic resale; training of staff of the Ministry in
such strategies; and
(2) Continuation of the program of dissemination of
improved charcoal stoves begun under the Urban Development
Project   financed   by  the   Association,   within   the  same
institutional framework agreed for such project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the table in para-
graph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A
or B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
the amount allocated to Category (6) and to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures under Categories (1) through (4)
and (6), in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by REGIDESO on behalf of the Borrower and evidence
satisfactory to the Assocation that the Special Account has been
duly opened, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Acount such amount or amounts
of the Authorized Allocation as shall have been requested, up to
the total of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit to
replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by REGIDESO on behalf of the Borrower furnished
to the Association at such intervals as the Association shall
specify, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish
the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of pay-
ments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective Categories (1) through (4) and in the
respective equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the


﻿- 15 -
evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit by the
Association into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (b)
of this Schedule, REGIDESO shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made out of the Special Account such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time all further withdrawals can be made directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, or (b) unless otherwise agreed
by the Association, when the total unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (4) for the Project,
minus the amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by
the Association and of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect of such Categories, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation, whichever shall
be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (4) shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower and REGIDESO, and shall, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made only after and
to the extent the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,


﻿- 16 -
refund to the Association, an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Botrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of ,
198  ___
FOR SECRETARY


