RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK                                RESTRICTED C T E 
WITHIN    t aCULtc CQpy                 Report No.P-364
ONE WEEK        REVRW TO ARcWi   pDr
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
FILE COPY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDITS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE
EAST AND jEiIIPAKISTAN EDUCATION PROJECTS
March 9, 1964



REPORT AND R-COIL¶ETNDLTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THlE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CRE,DITS TO THE REPUBLIC CF
PAKISTAN FOR THIE EAST ATND WEST PAKISTAN
EDUCATION PROJECTS
l.     I submit the following report and recommendations on two proposed
developrment credits to the Rtepublic of Pakistan in amounts in various
currencies equivalent to $4.5 million and $8.5 million to assist in the
financing of education projects in East and West Pakistan respectively.
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.     The Government of Pakistan, as part of its economic development
program, is devoting increasing attention to providing better facilities
for education and training. This recognition of the role of education in
economic development is reflected in the projections for the Third Five-
Year Plan (1965-70), which call for an allocation of about 13500 raillion
for education - more than twice as much as in the Second Plan (1960-65)
and eight times as much as in the First Plan.  The major share of thlis
allocation is to go to primary and techinical education.
3.     In May 1962 the Government of Pakistan requested an IDA credit to
finance part of a large program to improve and expand technical institutes
and engineering and agricultural universities and colleges in East and ,.Test
Pakistan. An IDA mission visited Pakistan in September and October 1962
to review the program, but found that it had not advanced sufficiently to
perm.it an appraisal of specific projects.  hdJitional data were requested,
and a second mission visited Pakistan in IKarch and April 1963.  As a
result of this mission, two projects were outlined which included two
agricultural universities and fourteen technical institutes for which
project data had been completed, and for which it was estimated there wrould
be a sufficient supply of teachers. Negotiations took place in W,1ashington
in February 1964 with representatives of the Government of Pakistan and
the Provincial Governments of East and Wlest Pakistan.
4.     The Association has already made eight credits to Pakistan totalling
$91.5 million.  The two proposed credits, amounting together to 9tP13 million,
would increase the total of IDA lending to Pakistan to =$l4.5 million. The
amount of the proposed credits is to be counted against the contribution of
',)135 million pledged by the Association under the Consortium arrangeraents for
the second and third years (1961/62 and 1962/63) of the Second Five-Year Plan.



5.     The Bank has made seventeen loans to Pakistan in the amount of
t,299 million.  The status of these loans on January 31, 1964, was as
follows:
, million
Total net of cancellations                            299.2
of which has been repaid                           45.O
Total now outstanding                              254,2
Amount sold                         13.2
of which has been repaid          8.9
_.3
Net amount held byr Bank                              2,9
6.     Of the 'i299.2 million of Bank loans, 4A172.3 million had been
disbursed on January 31, 1964, leaving an undisbursed balance of
126.9 million.  The Indus Loan, which accounts for twJo-thirds of this
undisbursed balance, is somewhat behind schedule owing to delays in the
letting of contracts for the whole Indus program.   There are no serious
delays in other Bank loans. Of the ''91.5 million of IDA credits, only
.:1.2 million had been disbursed on January 31, 1964, leaving an undisbursed
balance of '90.3 million. One credit is not 7yet effective and three have
become effective only within the last few weeks; together these total
`64 million.  On only one of the remaining four credits, the M million
credit for the Dacca-Demra irrigation project, are disbursements scricusly
behind schedule. Execution of this project has been delayed by about a
year as a result of inexperience on the part of the executing agency and
unsatisfactory performance by the consultants. However, these problems
have now been resolved, and the project is making good orogress.
PART II - DESCRIPTION1 C TH-E PROPOSED CREDITS
7.     Purpose:                     To finance about half the total cost of
two projects for the improvement and
expansion of technical and agricultural
educational facilities in Pakistan,
including one agricultural university,
eight technical institutes and one
teacher training college in East Pakistan
and one agricultural university, six
technical institutes and two teacher
training colleges in Wlest Pakistan.
Borrower:                    Republic of Pakistan.



-3 -
Amount:                     The equivalent in various currencies of:
(a) tL.5 million for East Pakistan, and
(b) V38.5 million for WJest Pakistan.
Term and Amortization:      The tern of the credits would be fifty
years wi-th no amortization for ten years.
From March 15, 1974, half of one per cent
of the principal amnount would be repayable
semi-annually for ten years; and one and
a half per cent semi-annually thereafter
to September 15, 2013.
Service Charge:             3/4 of one per cent per annum on the
principal amount of the credits disbursed
and outstanding.
Payment dates:              March 15 and September 15.
Relending Arrangements      The Government of Pakistan would relend
and Project Agreements:    the proceeds of tihe credits to the
Provinces of East and West Palistan on
IDA terns. The Association w-rould enter
into Project Agreements with the Provinces
of East and W.Jest Pakistan.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED CREDITS
The Project
8.     An appraisal of the projects is contained in the attached report
(T0.397a) dated February 20, 1964 (NTo. 1).
9.     Pakistan has made considerahle progress during the past fifteen years
in expanding and modernizing its educational system, but facilities still
fall sadly short of the countryrs needs.  A major effort must be made in the
next ten years to strengthen and reorganize the whole system along the lines
recomnended by the Commission on National Education in their 1959 report.
Emphasis mnust be placed on broadening the base of primary education and on
expanding and improving technical and vocational education.
10.    Agriculture in Pakistan accounts for three-quarters of total employTaent
and contributed 47 per cent of the national income. Yet the training of pro-
fessional agriculturalists has been seriously neglected, so that under 2 per
cent of the students enrolled in higher education are in agriculture; the
number graduating in 1960 was only about 200. The agricultural training
progran, of which the two agricultural universities are the major part, aims
at an annual output of 570 agricultural graduates by 1965 and 840 by 1970.



- 4 -
In view of the currently low crop yields and serious problems of waterlogging
and salinity, these targets should be considered as a minimum.
11.    The agricultural university at Lyallpur, as an affiliate of the
Punjab University, has been offering professional degrees for about forty
years.  It has recently been established as an independent university.   The
agricultural university at Hlymensingh is new and has been establLished, together
with Lyallpur, as a result of the separate recommendations of the Cormission
on National Education and the Food and A-riculture Commission. The establish-
ment of Iyallpur University was assisted by a team from WJashington State
University; a new contract has recently been concluded under which the
university is providing fourteen visiting professors and training grants to
over fifty Pakistanis.  Advisers from Texas Agricultural and Mechanical
College have helped in setting up the university at 1hymensingh and will
continue to assist by providing a team of nine visiting professors. The
IDA funds would be used for the construction of buildings and for the
procurement of teaching equipment at both universities.
12.    There is also need for many more trained technicians in inclustry.
Few such technicians were trained in Pakistan prior to 1955.   However, by
1960, with the help of pilot programs sponsored by the Ford Foundation, the
number being turned out annually had increased to 500 and by 1962 to 850.
The estimated requirement for 1970 is 7,000, and th:e projects to be
financed will contribute about 1,700 to this total. Lack of technical
skills among the labor force is one of the reasons why output per man in
industry has failed to show any increase over the last fewr years.
13.    IDA funds will be used for the purchase of teaching equipment at
fourteen technical institutes, eight in East and six in Test Pakistan.
These institutes will offer three-year courses in such subjects as auto-
mobile, civil, electrical and mechanical engineering.   The East Pakistan
institutes are under construction and nearing completion and in W^est
Pakistan five of the institutes are already in existence and one, at
I lultan, is under construction. Thus the projects, by providing better
education and training, will be makcing an important contribution to future
industrial productivity.
14.    The success of the technical institutes depends on the supnly of
qualified teachers. A three-year programr for the recruitment of expatriate
teachers to workc in Pakistan and for overseas training of Pakistani teachers
has been included in the projects. IDA funds will be used to defray the
whole cost of this program, most of it in foreign exchange.
15.    There is no shortage of candidates for the agricultural universities
or the technical institutes, nor will there be any problemil in fitting the
graduates into positions where they will be able to use their training to
the best advantage. The institutions to be assisted by these credits will
provide agriculture and industry with somie of their more urgent require-
tiients of trained personnel.



- 5 -
16.    The estimated total cost of the projects is 526 million, of which
about tlo million would be in foreign exchange. Strict attention has been
given to economizing in costs of design and construction. The proposed
credits would cover about So per cent of the total cost. Following the
pattern of our usual loans to Pakistan, they would be made to the Central
Government, which woulcd relend the proceeds of both credits to the
Provincial Governments on IDA terms.
17.    The agricultural universities would buy their teaching equipment
and draw up their construction contracts so as to permit broad inter-
national comppetition. The technical institutes are administered by the
Directorates of Technical Education within the Provincial Governments,
and these Directorates would have a specialist to assist them in the
selection of equipment. The equipment lists w-rould then be forwarded to
UNESCO for review to ensure that the procurement procedures followed allow
for international competitive bidding. The supplemental letters on adnin-
istration and procurement are attached (Nos. 2 and 3).
Economic Situation
18.    Pakistan's economic developmnent program was reviewedAin a report (AS-964)
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 15, 1963 (Sec.M 63-36).   A
Bank mission is now reviewing the economic situation and examining the pros-
pects for the final year of the Second Five-Year Plan (1964/65).
19.    The gross national product at constant prices increased by 2.8 per
cent during 1962/63. However, real per capita GNP showed no appreciable
change in that year, compared with an increase in 1961/62 of 3.8 per cent.
This was attributable to a reduction in agricultural production due to
unfavorable weather and severe floods in East Pakistan. Industrial production
continued to increase at a satisfactory rate.
20.    Agricultural production is expected to rise substantially in 1963/64,
with promise of record crops for rice and cotton.   Rice acreage in -,ast
Pakistan for spring and fall planted rice is 700,000 acres greater than
in 1962/63. Production is estiliuated at 10.5 million tons, as compared to
8.7 million tons in 1962/63 and a orevious high of 9.5 rmillion tons in
1960/61.  Cotton output is estimated at 2.35 million bales, as compared
to the 1962/63 record crop of 2.05 million bales. Jute acreage declined
by 300,000 acres during 1963/64, as a result of the diversion of land to
rice because of high rice prices at Planting time, but favorable weather
should result in above-average fields for jute. The 1963/6h wheat crop
to date is about normal. Although weather has been the iimajor factor in
the year-to-year changes in output, the benefits of earlier investments in
flood control, drainage and irrigation are beginning to shoTw results. Also
tie effects of fertilizer, pest control and improved seed are becoming
apparent.



- 6 -
21.    In 1962/63 cotton and jute, raw and manufactured, represented nearly
60 per cent of Pakistan's foreign exchange earnings. Such earnings in
1962/63 were 1578 million, an increase of 15 per cent over 1961/62.  However,
this rate of increase is not expected to be sustained in 1963/64.  Foreign
exchange reserves in the Central Bank at the end of 1963 were equivalent to
$'292 million, as compared with 0331 million at mlid-1963 and -274 million
at mid-1962.
22.    Gross fixed investment in Pakistan in 1962/63 is estirated to have
been 1o-20 per cent higher than in 1961/62, reaching 12 per cent of total
domestic expenditure. Total foreign exchange expenditure on development
in 1962/63 was about $603 million, or about 15 per cent above the previous
year.  Since disbursements of foreign aid and private foreign investment in
1962/63 were only $1pS23 m.illion, it is apparent that Pakistan is continuing
to cover a substantial portion of the foreign exchange costs of development
from her own earnings. However, this percentage is expected to decrease
somewhat in 1963/6)4 when both total development expenditures ancd receipts
of foreign aid are expected to increase substantially.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUTENTS AMD LEGAL AUTHORITY
23.    Attached are two draft Development Credit Agreements between the
Republic of Pakistan and the Association (:Hos. 4 and 5) and tlwo draft
Project Agreements between the Provinces of East and IWnest Pakistan and the
Association (Nos. 6 and 7). The form of both draft Development Credit
Agreements and both draft Project Agreeciments is substantially the samie and
they conform to the pattern of other IDA credits which include project
agreements.
24.    Attention is drawn to Section 2.03 of the draft Credit Agreements.
The agricultural universities and thie technical institutes in each Province
are independent of each- other. In order that one part of the project may
not be held up while the conditions of withdrawal of another part are being
irmplemnented, separate conditions have been im,posed for each part of the
project.
25.    The reconmmendations of the Conmittee provided for in Article V,
Secticn l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are attached
(Nos. 8 and 9).
PART V - 001 PLIANCE `U=TT ARTICLES OF AGREFUENT
26.    I am satisfied that the Borrower and tte Provinces of East and West
Pakistan irll be able to fulfill their respective obligations under the
Agreements and that  the proposed development credits comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



FART VI - R.COINENDATIONS
27.    I recommend that the Association make available two development
credits in amounts in various currencies equivalent to $4.5 million for
the East Pakistan Education project and $8.5 million for the West Pakistan
Education project for a term of fifty years with a service charge of 3/4 of
one per cent per annum and on such other terms as are specified in the
draft Development Credit Agreements and the draft Project Agreements, and
that the Executive Directors adopt Resolutions to that effect in the form
attached (Nos. 10 and 11).
George D. Woods
President
Attachments (11)
IWashington, D.C.
lIarch 9; 196L



