CREDIT NO. 50 PAK
Project Agreement
(West Pakistan Education Project)
BETWEEN
*                  PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 25, 1964


﻿CREDIT NO. 50 PAK
Project Agreement
(West Pakistan Education Project)
BETWEEN
*                   PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 25, 1964


﻿AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1964, between the
PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN, acting by its Governor (here-
inafter called the Province), and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to assist in the financing of a proj-
ect in the Province of West Pakistan to improve and to
expand facilities at West Pakistan Agricultural University
at Lyallpur (hereinafter called Lyallpur University); to
equip six technical institutes; and to further technical
teacher training at Karachi and Rawalpindi Technical
Teacher Training Colleges; and to make available to the
Borrower a development credit in various currencies
equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand dollars
($8,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement but only on condition that
the Province agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Province in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has ngreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
in the Regulations (as so defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Province
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Province shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound technical standards and with due
regard to economy and shall cause the educational institu-
tions included in the Project to be operated in accordance
with sound educational practices.
(b) The Province shall cause the physical plant and
equipment of the institutions mentioned in Parts (A) and
(B) of the Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement
to be adequately maintained and shall cause from time to
time all necessary renewals and repairs to be made thereto.
(c) The Province shall employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified and experienced architects, engineers, consultants
and specialists satisfactory to, and upon terms and condi-
tions agreed between, the Borrower and the Association to
assist in the carrying out of the Project.
(d) The Province shall cause to be furnished to the
Association promptly upon their preparation, the archi-
tects' briefs, designs, specifications, contracts and work
schedules for the construction referred to in Parts (A)
and (B) of the Schedule to the Development Credit Agree-
ment and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall request;
said data to be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿5
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Province shall cause construction referred to in Part (A)
of the Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement to
be carried out by contractors satisfactory to the Associ-
ation and employed under contracts satisfactory to the
Association.
(f) The Province shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of Lyallpur Univer-
sity and of the Directorate of Technical Education in the
Education Department of the Province responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof; shall en-
able the Association's representatives to inspect the Proj-
ect, the goods and any relevant records and documents;
and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Project, the goods and the operations and
financial condition with respect to the Project of Lyall-
pur University and of the Directorate of Technical Educa-
tion in the Education Department of the Province re-
sponsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof.
SECTION 2.02. The Province shall at all times make or
cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all funds
and other resources required for the carrying out of the
Project and for the operation of the educational institu-
tions mentioned in Parts (A.) and (B) of the 3chedule to
the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Province shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request with regard to


﻿6
its programs for educational development and with regard
to the operation of the educational institutions mentioned
in Parts (A) and (B) of the Schedule to the Development
Credit Agreement.
(b) Upon request the Province shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association, from time to time upon
their preparation, its general programs for the construc-
tion of new, and the expansion of existing, educational
institutions and shall afford the Association an opportun-
ity to exchange views with respect thereto.
SECTION 2.04. (a) The Province and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of
the Credit.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Province
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof, or the performance by the
Province of its obligations under this Agreement or which
shall increase or threaten to increase materially the esti-
mated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed be-
tween the Province and the Association, the Province shall
insure or cause to be insured with responsible insurers all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which are
to be imported into its territory. Such insurance shall
cover such marine, transit and other hazards incident to
purchase and importation of the goods to the site of the
Project and shall be for such amounts, as is consistent


﻿7
with sound commercial practices. Such insurance shall be
payable in the currency in which the cost of the goods
insured thereunder shall be payable or in dollars.
SECTION 2.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by
the Province and the Association:
(a) the Province shall cause all goods purchased in
whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit to be
used in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the
carrying out of the Project; and
(b) the Province shall cause title to all such goods to
be obtained free and clear of all encumbrances. Goods, the
cost of which are financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall not be sold or otherwise disposed of without the
prior consent of the Association.
SECTION  .07. The Province shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Bor-
rower or laws in effect in the territories of the Borrower
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or regis-
tration of this Agreement or the Development Credit
Agreement or the payment of principal and service charges
thereunder.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date when the Development Credit Agreement
shall become effective as provided therein.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and the
obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and deter-
mine if and when the entire principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid by the Province to the Borrower
in accordance with the agreement entered into between
them pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of the Development
Credit Agreement.
0


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by                        -
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, tel egram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of West Pakistan
Lahore, Pakistan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
West Pakistan
Lahore
For the Association:
International Development Association
181.8 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be


﻿9
executed, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary
to the Government of West Pakistan or such other person
or persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Associ-
ation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken oi executed by the Province pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Project Agreement and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Project Agreement to be signed in their respective names
by their representatives thereunto duly authorized and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF WEST PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. G. N. KAZI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


