                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 26755

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-35860)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$39.4 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                       FOR THE

             SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT




                                   November 5, 2003




Poverty Reduction Economic Management Unit
Africa Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 31 August 2003)

                           Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
                                Le 2,352 = US$ 1.00
                               US$ 1.00 = Le 0.0004251

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACC      Anti-Corruption Commission
AfDB     African Development Bank
AGD      Accountant General's Department
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGAP     Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CRRP     Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project
DDR      Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DfID     Department for International Development (U.K.)
ERRC     Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EU       European Union
FIS      Financial Information System
FMASU    Financial Management and Accounting System Unit
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally Displaced People
IMF      International Monetary Fund
MF       Micro Finance
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOP      Memorandum of the President
MTEF     Medium-term Expenditure Framework
NCP      National Commission for Privatization
PE       Public Enterprise
PETS     Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys
RRR      Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
TTL      Task Team Leader
UNDP     United Nations Development Program



                         Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                       Country Director      Mats Karlsson
                        Sector Manager       Emmanuel Akpa
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager        Douglas Addison

                                       SIERRA LEONE
                       Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Government Comments                                                     24

Project ID: P074642                                                      Project Name: Economic Rehabilitation and
                                                                         Recovery Credit II
Team Leader: Douglas M. Addison                                          TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: November 5, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit II           L/C/TF Number: IDA-35860
   Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                                        Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (52%); Micro- and SME finance
                            (12%); Primary education (12%); General industry and trade sector
                            (12%); Mining and other extractive (12%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Other financial and private sector development (P); Small and
                            medium enterprise support (S); Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                            reconstruction (S); Access to urban services for the poor (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/13/2001                                        Effective: 12/20/2001              12/20/2001
   Appraisal:    10/09/2001                                            MTR:
    Approval:    12/13/2001                                         Closing: 03/30/2003               03/30/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Emmanuel Akpa                                  Emmanuel Akpa
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas Addison
ICR Primary Author:             William D. Cooper


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

     The Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC II) was a policy-based
     quick-disbursing credit in the amount of US$50 million that supported the transitional phase
     of the Government's interim poverty reduction strategy. The policy objectives of that
     strategy, and hence of the Credit, were to establish national security and good governance,
     revive the economy, and restore basic public services. These objectives are presented in the
     Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), which was discussed at
     the Board in September 2001.

     The ERRC II pursued further the reforms initiated under the ERRC. It provided critical
     balance of payments and budgetary support to finance part of the costs associated with the
     implementation of the policy objectives. The proceeds of the Credit allowed the import of
     essential commodities, including food products, petroleum products, and raw materials and
     intermediate goods required to revive the economy. It enabled the Government to provide
     basic services, including the rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure in those
     parts of the country that had become accessible following the positive developments on the
     peace and security fronts.

     The ERRC II was part of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Sierra Leone.
     The TSS, discussed by the Board on December 14, 2000, had two main elements. In the
     short term, it would continue ongoing Bank support for economic recovery and
     rehabilitation through this ERRC II and the Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation
     Project (CRPP), and also via the Bank's role as administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust
     Fund (a fund that helped finance the costs of the Government's Disarmament,
     Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR) Program for ex-combatants). In the longer term,
     the TSS would support investments in poverty-related sectors such as education,
     agriculture, rural development and infrastructure, provided that national security and
     satisfactory economic performance would be maintained.

     With respect to national security, the Government had made good progress in disarming
     and demobilizing ex-combatants under its ongoing DDR program. By late 2001, when
     ERRC II was being appraised, about 27,000 combatants had been disarmed and
     demobilized, and about 19,000 of them had received financial support (about US$150
     each) from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund to help their re-insertion into civilian life. It was
     expected that the DDR Program would be mostly completed in late 2001 or early 2002,
     which would enhance security throughout the country and pave the way for presidential and
     parliamentary elections.

     With respect to economic performance, the Government remained strongly committed to
     maintaining and strengthening macroeconomic stability. It had prepared a medium-term
     macroeconomic framework in collaboration with the Fund and the Bank, and had agreed to
     implement its poverty reduction strategy within that framework. It was expected that
     recovery in agriculture and mining, and rehabilitation and construction activities would



                                               - 2 -

       contribute significantly to GDP growth, and that low inflation would be attained through
       prudent fiscal and monetary policies. In addition, the Government had prepared, in
       collaboration with the Bank and the Fund, a three-year economic program, which was
       supported under the Fund's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF).

3.2 Revised Objective:
       Objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
Policy objectives and associated implementation measures were detailed in Annex B of the MOP
under four headings or components, as follows:

(1) National Security and Good Governance. Key elements of this component were: (a) full
implementation of the DDR program; (b) establishing a decentralized system of government; (c)
enhancing transparency in budget preparation and implementation; and (d) participatory
monitoring of budget implementation and service delivery.

(2) Revival of the Economy. This was to be achieved by ensuring macroeconomic stability and
facilitating private sector development. Key elements of this component were: (a) maintaining
macro-economic stability; (b) divestiture of public sector enterprises; (c) promotion of formal
activity in the mining sector; (d) establishing sustainable micro-finance services; and (e) facilitating
the resettlement and reintegration of internally displaced peoples (IDPs), refugees and war
victims.

(3) Public Expenditure Management. The efficient and equitable use of public resources was
to be promoted by: (a) the adoption of a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) and a
strengthened budget process; (b) improving financial accountability by strengthening the financial
information system (FIS); and (c) shifting budget allocations to the social and economic sectors.

(4) Access to Social Services. Key elements supporting this component were: (a) increasing
allocations for social services at regional levels; (b) introducing free primary education and
increasing the supply of teaching materials; (c) expanding school nutrition and health programs;
and (d) improving access to clean water and sanitation.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions to the original components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
       ERRC II was a quick-disbursing two-tranche operation of SDR 39.4 million (US$ 50
       million equivalent) covering the 15-month period Dec 2001 to March 2003. Its design was
       based on evidence that the Borrower had maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic
       framework for 2001 and had achieved acceptable progress in consolidating peace and
       reconciliation, promoting social and economic security, and establishing transparent and
       inclusive governance. This evidence was provided as a condition of Board presentation and
       accepted during negotiations.




                                                  - 3 -

      Quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of consistency of objectives with
      the priorities for economic and social rehabilitation as set forth in the Government's Letter
      of Development Policy, and with those of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for
      Sierra Leone.     The project built on experience gained under the previous Economic
      Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Credit, and attempted to foster ownership and
      accountability at all levels. The MOP amply documented developments on the peace
      process, and presented the government's poverty reduction strategy in sufficient detail. The
      MOP correctly identified potential risks as (i) the Government's failure to establish full
      security and control in all parts of the country; (ii) the possible lack of political commitment;
      and (iii) weak institutional capacity that could cause implementation delays. Useful matrices
      of policy objectives, implementation measures and key performance indicators were
      included in project design.      The Credit also played a catalytic role in promoting the
      extensive coordination of, and collaboration with, other donor agencies such as the DFID,
      EU, UNDP, and AfDB in addressing post-conflict needs and in rebuilding institutional
      capacity.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
      Achievement of objectives and outputs under ERRC II was satisfactory overall. Progress
      was good in all areas, even when judged independently of the challenges inherent in
      operating during civil conflict. Objectives for improving governance, reviving the economy
      and improving public resource management were substantially met.                   Objectives for
      improving access to basic social services are considered met on the basis of restored 2002
      budget allocations for education, health and water services in the three provinces where
      order and security have been re-established, and on provisional data on service access.

      Acceptable flexibility in the pace of implementation was demonstrated by adjusting
      completion dates as needed for some agreed program actions, depending on constraints and
      opportunities during the course of implementation.

      It is also recognized that ERRC II was a 15-month time slice of a three-credit program of
      Bank support for economic rehabilitation and recovery, where the completion of
      preparation and the implementation of programs was expected to be continued under the
      next economic rehabilitation and recovery credit (ERRC III).

      Assessment was slightly hindered by MOP references to overlapping performance indicators
      in the I-PRSP, in Annex B, Annex C and Annex E. These might have been usefully
      summarized in one just table of measurable indicators and completion dates.


4.2 Outputs by components:
     i. National Security and Good Governance. Achievement of this component is rated
satisfactory.

      Demobilization of ex-combatants: The National Security and Intelligence Act, promulgated



                                                 - 4 -

in 2000, provided the framework for re-establishing and maintaining peace and security in
all parts of the country. Within this context, the Government has successfully implemented
and in 2002 completed its demobilization, disarmament and reinsertion (DDR) program,
involving about 95,000 ex-combatants. Implementation of the DDR program was facilitated
by paying ex-combatants re-insertion grants from the Multi-Donor Trust Fund administered
by the Bank, and by the training and employment program supported by the Bank and the
AfDB under the Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP).

Budgetary transparency: Transparency in budget preparation and implementation has been
enhanced through the creation of Budgetary Oversight Committees to assist in the
determination of budgetary priorities through the MTEF process and to monitor
implementation. Transparency in implementation was also facilitated through the regular
production of budgetary monitoring reports at the activity level, including the payroll.

Decentralization of Government functions:           Decentralization is seen by the donor
community as being essential to the consolidation of the peace. Prior to the conflict, the
level of representation and service provided within the Western Area, host to the central
government, was far greater than what was accorded to the remaining districts deeper
inland. This inequity contributed to the sources of the conflict. Satisfactory progress has
been made in the strengthening of local governments and the decentralization of
government functions to local levels. Paramount chiefs in vacant chiefdoms have been
elected. Preparations for holding local government, municipal and rural council elections are
well advanced. Legislation defining the roles and responsibilities of central and local
governments is being formulated with UNDP assistance and elections are scheduled for late
2003. The Bank will support continued progress towards decentralization under ERRC III.

Participatory outcome monitoring: A participatory system of Public Expenditure Tracking
Surveys (PETS ) has been set up to track expenditures from ministerial headquarters to
regional and district offices and to assess the quality of service delivery at the beneficiary
level. It is planned they will be conducted on a semi-annual basis. The first PETS was
completed in late 2001 and revealed appreciable leakages between budgets and actual
delivery of resources to communities. The second PETS, conducted for the second half of
2001, reported improvements in expenditure management and the utilization of public funds
in 2001 compared to 2000. The PETS are proving their value in outcome monitoring. The
next PETS will be used in the tracking survey for 2002. In addition, the Government has
established Budget Oversight Committees in all districts to facilitate budget formulation,
implementation and monitoring of budget outcomes. Budget monitoring reports at the
activity level, including payroll reports, are produced regularly on a monthly basis.

Other actions have also contributed to better security and the restoration of law and order in
most parts of the country.       The military and the police have been restructured and
reorganized, and their capacities strengthened. Law courts and district magistrate courts
have been rehabilitated and refurbished, leading to improved courtroom productivity. The
Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC), established in 2001, is actively pursuing cases of
corruption in both the private and public sectors.



                                            - 5 -

ii. Revival of the Economy.

The overall assessment of this component is rated satisfactory. This is based on the fact that
the reforms are well advanced and that satisfactory arrangements for their continuation and
completion have been made under ERRC III.

Macroeconomic stability: Macro-economic stability was achieved in 2002, following the
end of the conflict, with rapid real growth and re-monetization of the economy. Real GDP
grew by 6.3 percent and broad money grew by 28 percent. (See Table 1 below.) The
inflation rate was estimated to be slightly negative at 3.1 percent. This was made possible
by the end of war-time profiteering and the introduction of more goods into the economy
via rapid GDP growth and a large inflow imports financed by foreign aid. Budgetary
revenues in 2002 increased to 14.5 percent of GDP, slightly above the target of 14.3
percent of GDP, while expenditures grew to 34.2 percent of GDP. Spending was well
below the target of 40.7 percent for 2002, owing to over-optimistic programming, capacity
constraints at the line ministry level and delays in procurement at the central level. The
fiscal balance, after grants, was relatively steady at 9.9 percent of GDP compared to 9.4
percent of GDP in 2001. The current account balance in 2002 was -10.1 percent of GDP
versus 8.9 percent of GDP in 2001.

Table 1: Sierra Leone: Selected Economic Indicators, 2001-2002.
                                              2001                     2002 Estimated
 Consumer inflation, period                    2.2                            -3.1
average (%)
 Real GDP growth (%)                           5.4                            6.3
 Broad money growth (%)                       33.7                            28.0
 Revenues (% of GDP)                          14.0                            14.5
 Expenditures (% of GDP)                      29.8                            34.2
 Fiscal Balance (% of GDP)                     -9.4                           -9.9
 Current Account Balance (%                    -8.9                          -10.1
of GDP)

Public enterprise reform: The Strategic Plan for the Divestiture of Public Enterprises (PEs)
was adopted by Parliament in June 2001. A detailed action program to implement the
divestiture plan was established under ERRC II and attached to the MOP (Annex C). Most
measures defined in the action program were successfully completed and include: the
collection of outstanding payments relating to past or ongoing privatization transactions;
the establishment of the National Commission for Privatization (NCP) in October 2002,
after some delay, and the appointment of its chairman and commissioners; the preparation
of draft legislation on privatization; and a review of policies regarding the establishment and
operations of hotels. As part of its mandate, the NCP has taken control as prudent
shareholder of all PEs, and Government representatives on boards of PEs have been
removed.



                                           - 6 -

More might have been achieved, absent the delay in establishing the NCP with its initially
limited capacity. In particular, the NCP was not able to prepare a detailed plan for full
implementation of the divestiture policy. It is recognized, however, that ERRC II was a
15-month time slice of a three-credit program of Bank support for economic rehabilitation
and recovery, where the completion of preparation and the implementation of programs was
expected to be continued under the next economic rehabilitation and recovery credit (ERRC
III).   Thus, preparation of a comprehensive plan for full implementation of the
Government's divestiture strategy became an effectiveness condition that was met for
ERRC III.

Mining sector development: A study was conducted in 2001, jointly with a Government
task force, to provide recommendations and an action plan for the revival and development
of the mining sector. The study included recommendations regarding required fiscal, legal
and regulatory reforms and formed the basis for a draft mining policy framework that
defined the conditions for attracting new investments in the mining sector. The draft policy
framework was approved by Cabinet in December 2002 and satisfied one of the conditions
that triggered the release of the second tranche of the Credit. Subsequently, the framework
was discussed and agreed with key stakeholders at a workshop conducted in May 2003,
prior to the presentation of ERRC III to the Board. The Bank will support the
implementation of agreed mining development policies and programs under ERRC III.

Micro-finance services: The goal was to develop a policy framework that provides the basis
for sustainable micro finance (MF) services with maximum impact. This objective has been
achieved. With assistance of the Bank's senior financial sector specialist, the Government
mobilized the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) ­ reputed to be a
repository of international best practice in micro-finance ­ to conduct a sub-sector review
of micro-finance activities in Sierra Leone and to provide a framework for developing a
national micro-finance policy. The sub-sector review was carried out in April 2002.
Workshops were held to discuss the CGAP report, study tours for key policy makers were
conducted, and four members of the MF taskforce attended a micro-finance training
program in the USA.       A draft MF policy framework was developed and discussed with
stakeholders in September 2002, approved by cabinet in December 2002 and accepted by
the Bank as satisfying one of the second tranche release conditions of ERRC II.
Implementation of the framework is supported under the Bank's Social Fund operation.

Resettlement and Reintegration: The Government is actively and successfully implementing
its Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation (RRR) program. This program covers
ex-combatants, refugees, internally displaced people (IDPs), amputees, war widows and
orphans. The program is supported in part by the Bank-administered Multi-Donor Trust
Fund, which provides reinsertion payments to ex-combatants, and by the training and
employment program supported by the Bank's Community Reintegration and
Rehabilitation Project. The CRRP provides, in addition to training, farm inputs, extension
services, improvements in feeder roads and other physical support to facilitate the
resettlement process.




                                          - 7 -

iii. Public Expenditure Management. Achievement of this component is rated
satisfactory.

Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF):               The ongoing process of improving
budget preparation and implementation and strengthening expenditure control has been
successful. A medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) was introduced with IMF
assistance in 2001 and was used to prepare the 2001 and 2002 budgets. The MTEF is being
gradually introduced to all line ministries to deepen the reform. The MTEF technical
committee (consisting of the ministries of Finance, Development and Economic Planning,
the Bank of Sierra Leone and other line ministries) was set up in 2002 to coordinate and
facilitate the entire MTEF process for better budgetary management. Bank/Fund missions
have provided strong technical support to the installation and operation of the MTEF.

Financial accountability: The basis for reform of the financial information system (FIS) in
the Account General's Department was the limited-scope Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA), jointly conducted with the DFID and the Government. Two actions
were recommended: (1) full documentation of the FIS architecture and preparation of user
manuals for implementing the system, and (2) separation of the functions of administrator
and system operator. This has been done: full documentation of the updated system
architecture including technical manuals for implementing the system has been prepared and
staff training based on the manuals is ongoing. The functions of the system administrator
and the system operator have         effectively been separated by setting up a financial
information unit in the AGD. This has improved cross checking of financial controls, thus
ensuring a degree of impartiality. As a result, the accounting systems of the various
Government departments are becoming better integrated, providing improved accountability
and transparency in the use of public funds.

Budget allocation and monitoring: Expenditure management and utilization of public funds
have improved through the work of budget oversight committees that were established in all
regions to oversee budget preparation and implementation and issue monthly reports. These
committees will be decentralized to the district level by end-2003, thereby significantly
expanding the budget monitoring function. The semi-annual Public Expenditure Tracking
Surveys (PETS) complement the activities of the budget oversight committees.

iv. Access to Social Services. Achievement of this component is rated satisfactory.

Increasing budget allocations: Summaries of expenditure actuals for 2001 and 2002 show
that current expenditures for the social sectors, except for personnel costs, were restored in
the 2002 budget for the Northern, Southern and Eastern provinces when hostilities had
ceased. As a result, students have returned to school in those regions and enrollments have
significantly increased. Similarly, funding was restored for Public Health Units and hospitals
in all four provinces, which has increased access to health care. As for water supply, fully
two-thirds of the Ministry of Energy and Power's 2002 budget was allocated to water
services, confirming the Government's priority in this area. Reliable statistics on increases in
school enrollments, operating health care units and water supply systems are not yet



                                          - 8 -

      available.

      Education: Free primary education was introduced in 2001 for grades 1-3, and extended to
      all six grades in 2002. Books and other teaching supplies are being subsidized. The
      program has been extended to all parts of the country, as planned.

      Health: School health and nutrition programs were re-introduced in 2000 and have been
      maintained in subsequent years.

      Water supply: Government is implementing its urban water supply project and is extending
      facilities in major provincial towns.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
        Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
        Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
      Achievement of this component is rated substantial. Most institutional development (ID)
      support was provided by other donors including DFID, EU, UNDP and others, coordinated
      by the implementation unit in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Credit, however, had a
      direct and substantial impact on institutional development in the MOF and in several
      technical ministries through specialist support provided by Bank and Fund staff on mission.
      For the MOF, this included the introduction of the MTEF process, budget preparation and
      monitoring, strengthening the financial information system, and coordination of donor
      support. The preparation of policy frameworks and implementation plans in mining,
      micro-finance, public enterprise reform was assisted by Bank staff or consultants and
      impacted positively on the institutional capacities of the ministries concerned.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
      The end of the war in Sierra Leone in 2001, accompanied by the demobilization of all
      ex-combatants in 2002, created conditions that allowed for free presidential and
      parliamentary elections, and the re-establishment of Government authority throughout the
      country. The establishment of law and order and an improved security situation inevitably
      impacted positively on the Government's capacity to implement its strategies for poverty
      reduction and revival of the economy, including the development and implementation of
      policies and programs supported by this project. On the negative side, continuing fighting in
      Liberia led to the influx of thousands of Liberian refugees into Sierra Leone, stretching the
      already limited resources of the Government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
      Main factors in achieving the largely satisfactory results of the programs supported by this
      Credit were the Government's firm and steadfast commitment to the reforms, and the
      effective coordination of program implementation by the Ministry of Finance.           Other



                                                     - 9 -

      contributing factors include the Government's decision to effectively decentralize its
      services and encourage the participation of the population in monitoring the effectiveness of
      service delivery, for example through Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys. In general,
      institutional capacity constraints have tended to slow down project implementation in areas
      such as the preparation of legislation, the conduct of studies and the procurement of
      services, without however a major impact on the project's outcome.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
      The Ministry of Finance, responsible for program coordination and implementation,
      maintained effective communications with the Bank and the Fund, which facilitated program
      implementation and follow-up.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The full amount of the Credit was disbursed in two tranches, as scheduled.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
      Sustainability of the policy program pursued under the credit is rated likely. Government
      commitment remains strong, and the policy environment is relatively stable.            Fiscal
      sustainability has been helped by HIPC debt relief granted in 2002 and is expected to be
      further enhanced by the resumption of rutile mining expected in 2004. In the long-run,
      however, future sustainability will also depend on a combination of expenditure reductions
      as post-conflict needs are phased out and/or continued donor support.

      Major legislation such as the act for the privatization of public enterprises, and policy
      frameworks for the mining sector and for micro finance services, have been approved by
      parliament. These programs will be implemented within the time frame of ERRC III and are
      therefore considered sustainable.

      Institutional and management capacities in the Ministry of Finance, in particular with
      respect to budget preparation (acceptance of MTEF) and financial management (installation
      of FIS) have improved.             This provides reasonable assurance for continued good
      macro-economic and financial performance.

      Local interest and participation in budget implementation and monitoring is strong, as
      evidenced by the community-based public expenditure tracking surveys (PETS), and the
      regional and district level budget oversight committees. These activities are expected to
      continue if not expand, as the reform program proceeds.

      Finally, sustainability is implicitly assured by the follow-up phase of the reform program
      under ERRC III.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
      There are no specific transition arrangements for this project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                    - 10 -

Bank
7.1 Lending:
      Identification was consistent with the Government's development priorities, and with the
      Bank's transitional support strategy for Sierra Leone. The Bank supported local teams in
      project preparation and supplied specialized expertise when and where needed. Project
      design was adequate. Attention was paid to the borrower's institutional weaknesses and
      provision was made to address them, mostly by ensuring support from other donors. Policy
      objectives, implementation measures and output indicators were spelled out in the form of
      matrices attached to the MOP. The lending instrument, a budget support program with
      tranche release conditions tied to achievements of project objectives, was appropriate and
      effective.

7.2 Supervision:
      There were three full supervision missions conducted by the Task Team Leader (TTL), and
      two separate missions by sector specialists. Missions were appropriately staffed, with
      specialized expertise in the areas of privatization, microfinancing, community participation
      and mining development. Mission members participated in workshops organized by the
      Borrower to help implementation along. Joint missions with the Fund were held in
      connection with the installation of the MTEF and the preparation and review of annual
      budgets. Coordination with multilateral and bilateral agencies was well organized;
      inter-agency cooperation was close and productive.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
      The Bank's overall performance in both lending and supervision is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
      The Borrower has actively participated in the preparation of this Credit. It has demonstrated
      high commitment to the objectives of its interim poverty reduction strategy (I-PRSP) and
      the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy by implementing a number of key actions prior to
      Board     presentation:  (i)  a   satisfactory  macroeconomic      framework;    (ii) budget
      implementation reports for the first three quarters of 2001; (iii) public accounts for 1999
      and 2000; (iv) public expenditure tracking surveys for the first six months of 2001; and (v) a
      payment plan for clearing cross-debts between Government and parastatals.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
      Government departments and units at the central, regional and district levels have actively
      participated in the rehabilitation and recovery program supported by the Credit. The
      Government has actively and successfully mobilized the participation of the population in
      economic recovery and rehabilitation through budget oversight committees and expenditure
      tracking surveys, as well as in the implementation of its reinsertion program for
      ex-combatants and displaced people.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
      The Ministry of Finance, through a steering committee chaired by the Minister of Finance,
      managed project implementation and monitoring in an effective way. Despite the scope of



                                                - 11 -

       the reform effort and the administrative and institutional weaknesses in some departments,
       the positive results obtained at the closing of the Credit are in a significant way attributable
       to the diligent management and supervision efforts of the MOF.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from this operation can be summarized as follows:

The catalytic role of the Credit enhanced the benefits of donor coordination. In particular, the
Government was able to make good progress in economic and sectoral performance without
reducing the effectiveness of its efforts in demobilization, resettlement and reintegration because
of the well coordinated and effective participation of the donor community in post-conflict
activities and in institutional development.

Task forces can be used effectively to develop narrowly focused tasks such as, in the case of this
Credit, policy frameworks and implementation roadmaps. A particularly good example was the
task force set up to develop a plan for micro-finance services, that included not only an
implementation roadmap but also provided for study tours and formal training programs for local
staff to run the program once installed (see para 4.2 of this ICR). To be successful, taskforces
should be limited in size, have independence of action, report directly to a minister or other
high-level official, and have access to external expertise if needed.

Similarly, the creation of the National Commission for Privatization appears to have been a useful
move.      It should be recognized, however, that privatization is often a complex and
time-consuming process. In this light, the implementation schedule could have capitalized more
on the phased nature of the reform program. The ERRC II might have focused more on ensuring
adequate funding for the NCP, more time to build capacity within the new NCP and more time to
build capacity within the sectoral ministries that would need to establish new regulatory
capacities. This would set the stage for the subsequent development of a detailed divestiture plan.


Process indicators and performance or output indicators should be carefully and realistically set,
with sufficient specificity to measure progress and assess achievement while allowing room for
flexibility. The use of process indicators with target dates for meeting specified steps in the
process (as was done in MOP Annex C), was more relevant and more useful for tracking progress
in the Credit than output indicators. The Credit also benefitted from the periodic revision of some
indicators in accord with implementation progress.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC II), in the amount of US$50
million, was successfully disbursed in two tranches within a period of 15 months. Government
fulfilled all the conditionalities for tranche release, including the maintenance of a stable



                                                 - 12 -

macroeconomic environment, and made significant progress in the implementation of structural
reforms. The World Bank task team provided excellent supervision support throughout the
implementation of the program.

The Disarmament and Demobilition phase of the DDR programme was completed in the review
period. By December 2002, 56,751 ex-combatants were registered for reintegration support
throughout the country. A total of 38,689 were either in on-going or completed programmes or
waiting to be placed in approved projects.

Government put in place a structured intelligence network operating both within and outside the
country as a preventive measure in our national security strategy. A task force on immigration to
review and monitor the operations at our borders and entry points was put in place, as well as
procedures for the issuance of passports. The objective was to safeguard the nation against
undesirable external elements that could penetrate our territory and threaten the security of the
State. Our Police Force has been equipped with high quality leadership, technical support and
logistics. These measures have significantly enhanced the capacity and effectiveness of the Force
in maintaining law and order.

Government set up a Governance Reform Secretariat which has been working in conjunction with
the Ministry of Local Government to strengthen and empower all institutions relevant to the
policy on decentralization. Paramount Chiefs' elections were concluded and Government is
working steadfastly towards the holding of local government elections.

Government adopted the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to orientate public
expenditures in line with its growth and poverty reduction priorities and to obtain increasing gains
in terms of service delivery to rural communities with a role for civil society in budgetary
oversight. The MTEF process aims at promoting planning and budgeting over a three-year
horizon, channeling increased resources to the social and economic sectors, and promoting
efficiency and effectiveness of public expenditures. To enhance the participatory nature of the
MTEF process, Government has established Budget Oversight committees in all regions to assist
in the determination of priorities and monitor budget implementation in their respective districts.

Within the MTEF process, a participatory monitoring system (the Public Expenditure Tracking
Survey or PETS) has been commissioned to assess the efficient and effective utilization of public
resources allocated to both urban and rural communities. Two PETS were conducted covering
public expenditures for FY2001 and their results were published. The key findings of these
surveys have been used as a basis for the introduction of new procedures and regulations for
accessing public funds from the Accountant General's Department.

The credit contributed towards Government's efforts to minimize corruption and reduce the
scope for non-transparent budgetary transactions by ensuring sound financial management. The
credit provided support for a mini-Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFFA) to
identify the strengths and weaknesses of the public financial management system and recommend
ways to improve financial accountability. A work plan has been developed to implement the
recommendations. As a major initiative, a Financial Management and Accounting System Unit



                                               - 13 -

(FMASU) has been established in the Accountant General's Department to separate the functions
of the Accountant General and the operations of the Computerized Financial Management and
Accounting system. The establishment of the FMASU has improved the accuracy and timeliness
of cash management and adherence to financial regulations. This has resulted in significant
progress at the Accountant General's Department to control commitments, firm up the payroll,
improve the accuracy and timeliness of information on budget implementation, cash management,
and the accrual of arrears.

On the macroeconomic front, the credit enabled Government to promote economic recovery and
maintain a stable economy while raising the resources to finance critical reconstruction and
rehabilitation needs. The economy grew from 5.4 percent in 2001 to 6.3 percent in 2002. The
growth was facilitated in part by the foreign exchange resources generated by the credit channeled
through the foreign exchange auction, which financed the importation of intermediate goods, raw
materials, and machinery for industry that remarkably revamped manufacturing activity. The credit
provided budgetary support, which minimized recourse to bank financing thereby helping to
control inflation. Annual average inflation declined from 2.2 percent in 2001 to minus 3.1 percent
in 2002. The exchange rate was relatively stable. The gross foreign exchange reserves of the Bank
of Sierra Leone rose to US$84.6 million (2.2 months of imports) in 2002 from US$52 million (1.8
months of imports) in 2001. The improvement in gross foreign exchange reserves can be
attributed partly to the foreign exchange resources funded by the credit. The budgetary support
provided by ERRC II facilitated the payment of domestic arrears, which prevented crowding out
of the private sector. Policies were formulated and implemented under the credit to ensure that
Government does not accumulate new arrears.

The credit also complemented Government's efforts in the formulation of a micro-finance policy,
as the basis for high-impact sustainable micro-finance schemes. The main objective of the policy is
to integrate Microfinance into the broader financial system and facilitate the provision of viable
and sustainable microfinance services to low income Sierra Leoneans in a transparent and
accountable manner.

The development of the mining sector as a potential source of income and employment generation
is centered in current national priorities. Under the credit, Government has formulated a new
Mining Policy that will attract private capital from credible foreign mining companies and create
conditions for development of artisanal mining.

The credit also aimed at reinforcing reforms of public resource management and promoting a
greater private sector role in the economy. In this regard, the credit supported the formulation of
the Strategic Plan for the divestiture of public enterprises. Following the approval of the Strategic
Plan by Cabinet in May 2001, a National Commission for Privatization (NCP) was established to
implement the public enterprise divestiture programme which would cover 23 state enterprises.
According to the Act, all government representatives on the boards of parastatals were replaced,
and technical and financial performance benchmarks were established, to be monitored on a
regular basis.

Government remained committed to re-establish and improve access to social services, especially



                                                 - 14 -

primary education, healthcare, and clean water and sanitation that have direct impact on the
quality of life of the poor, as laid out in Sierra Leone's interim poverty reduction strategy. The
credit provided budgetary support to the social sectors to increase access to social services and
improve service delivery.        Specifically, provision of school fee subsidies for pupils in classes
1-111 was expanded to class VI. Government continued to provide free teaching, learning
materials and textbooks for Government owned and assisted primary schools, and subsidized
textbooks for secondary schools.          These policies have resulted in a significant increase in
enrollment rates, particularly in primary schools. The provision of subsidized NPSE, BECE and
WASSCE fees for pupils in Government owned and assisted schools remains on track. School
bus transportation to minimize truancy is on course and plans are underway to expand the
programme to provincial headquarter towns. In the health sector, the proceeds from ERRCII
have been utilized to improve access to and the quality of health services. Government continues
to provide free basic drugs for pregnant women, nursing mothers, under-five and school going
children. With support from the credit, farm tools and implements have been provided to farmers
to improve food production and enhance agricultural productivity.

Government's institutional and implementation capacities have been strengthened by the support
from various multilateral and bilateral donors, including that of the World Bank and the IMF
during the preparation and implementation of ERRC II.



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 15 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Development                                    Indicator                                          Outcome at completion
   Objective
Promoting National   · Ex-combatants re-inserted into civilian life                   · 71,000 combatants disarmed and demobilized.
Security and Good                                                                       56,000 ex-combatants re-inserted into society.
Governance
                     · Reduction of crime in major cities                             · Crime rate reported down

                     · Accurate and timely reporting of public finances               · Improved; Monthly reporting ongoing.

                     · Macro-economic program on track                                · Macro-economic program on track in 2002.

                     · Democratic parliamentary and presidential elections            · Elections held June 2000; results accepted by
                                                                                        national and international community.

                     · Financial information system (FIS) strengthened                · Full documentation for FIS architecture and
                                                                                        implementation manuals prepared. Implementation
                                                                                        completed.

                     · Well-functioning Anti-Corruption Commission                    · Anti-Corruption Commission functioning and its
                                                                                        capacity strengthened with DFID support.
   Revive the        · Availability of basic commodities such as rice and             · Petroleum imports estimated at US$40
   economy             petroleum.                                                       million in 2002, up from US$31 million in
                                                                                        2001. Rice imports about US$27 million in
                                                                                        2002, down from US$31 million in 2001.

                     · Agriculture production increased.                              · Agricultural production increased due to
                                                                                        resettlement of displaced populations and
                                                                                        re-integration of ex-combatants.
                                                                                             .
                     · Mining sector exports increased.                               · Mining sector exports reached US$80
                                                                                        million in 2002, up from US$ 75 million in
                                                                                        2001.

                     · Updated strategy for remaining public enterprises in           · Preparation of implementation plan delayed
                        Government's portfolio implemented                              pending establishment of National
                                                                                        Commission for Privatization.

                     · Financial performance of public enterprises monitored          · PE financial monitoring system being
                                                                                        developed by NCP.

                     · Mining sector policy and strategy adopted.                     · National Mining Policy Framework adopted
                                                                                        12/02. Draft implementation plan issued.

                     · Micro finance policy framework established                     · Micro finance framework adopted by
                                                                                        Cabinet Dec.2002.

                                                                                      · Acceptable micro-finance framework
                                                                                        established; to be put into operation in
                                                                                        2003 under the Bank's Social Fund
                                                                                        operation.
   Strengthen public · Improvement in revenue mobilization by at least 1 percent      · Revenues increased from 14 percent in
   expenditure           of GDP over the 2001 program level.                              2001 to 14.5 percent in 2002.
   management
                     · Public expenditure control at the commitment level.            · Improving; slippages have arisen in the
                                                                                          creation of departmental accounts.

                     · Public resources reach administration units in all provinces.  · Budgets restored in all provinces.

                     · No new accumulation of arrears                                 · No new arrears. Achieved




                                                                   - 16 -

Improve access to  · Enrollment rates in primary classes                   · Budgets for primary education and primary health
basic services                                                               facilities in Northern, Southern and Western
                   · Number of primary health care centers in operation      provinces restored from zero in 2001 to adequate
                                                                             levels in 2002. School and health unit attendance
                   · Child immunization rate                                 significantly increased as result.

                   · Access to safe water                                  · Budget allocated in 2002 to restore water supplies
                                                                             in all provinces.




                                                              - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Available electronically




                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               09/2001                   4    ECONOMIST, TEAM LEADER                S               S
                                              (1); MINING SECTOR
                                              SPECIALIST (1); PRIVATE
                                              SEC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                              MICRO-FINANCE
                                              SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/2001                   4    ECONOMIST, TEAM                       S               S
                                              LEADER (1); MINING
                                              SECTOR SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PRIVATE SEC.
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              MICRO-FINANCE
                                              SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision
               6/2002                     1   ECONOMIST, TEAM                       S               S
                                              LEADER (1)
               7/2002                     1   MICRO-FINANCE                         S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               11/2002                    3   ECONOMIST, TEAM LEADER                S               S
                                              (1); MINING SECTOR
                                              SPECIALIST (1); PRIVATE
                                              SEC. SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               09/2003                   1     ECONOMIST, TEAM                      S               S
                                               LEADER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               9.30                       31,839.49
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    3.99                       13,645.49
  Supervision                             13.48                       48,744.18
  ICR                                         5                          18,000
  Total                                   31.77                     112,229.16
Based on available data from SAP.




                                               - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone, November 21, 2000.

Sierra Leone ­ Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit, Project Identification Document, December
16, 1999.

Appraisal Mission for a Proposed Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit, October
24-November 4, 2001.

Republic of Sierra Leone ­ Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit, Memorandum of the
President (Report No. P7499SL), November 20, 2001.

Republic of Sierra Leone ­ Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit, Development Credit
Agreement (Cr. 3586-SL), December 14, 2001.

Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone, March 3, 2002.

Sierra Leone ­ Microfinance Review and Policy Formulation Mission, March 3-8, 2002, Aide Memoire.

Sierra Leone ­ Microfinance Review and Policy Formulation Paper, August, 2002, Report.

Republic of Sierra Leone ­ Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), March 30, 2002.

Project Status Report ­ Sierra Leone ERRC II, December 17, 2002.

Sierra Leone ­ Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (Cr. 3586-SL), Release of the Second
Tranche, December 19, 2002.




                                                  - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Comments




                                     - 24 -

- 25 -

- 26 -

