Report No. PID9851
Project Name                     Sierra Leone-Economic Rehabilitation and...
Recovery Credit-Supplemental Credit
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomics
Project ID                       SLPE73274
Borrower                         Republic of Sierra Leone
Implementing Agency              Department of Finance
Secretariat Building
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 2000
Projected Appraisal              October, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 14, 2000
BACKGROUND
1.      Following the temporary upsurge in hostilities and the near-collapse of
the UN peacekeeping activities in Sierra Leone in May 2000, the past months
have seen a gradual stabilization of the security situation. British forces
have provided critical command and control and intelligence assistance in the
armed forces, the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) force has
been expanded to 12,500 personnel, and Government forces have been reinforced
and are undergoing training. This has been bolstered by the UK's recent
decision to commit its 5000-strong rapid deployment force to Sierra Leone,
if needed, and to provide significant new logistics and equipment to the
Sierra Leone Army (SLA).
2. At the political level, the Economic Community of West African States
(ECOWAS) and the UN are actively encouraging a return to negotiations between
the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) and Government in the context of the
Lome Peace Accord (LPA). The RUF has named a new military commander, Issa
Sesay, as its interim leader to replace its former leader, Foday Sankoh (who
is in Government custody), and to take up negotiations on behalf of the
movement. The first such meeting took place in Abuja, Nigeria, on November
8-10, under the auspices of ECOWAS and of President Obasanjo of Nigeria.
This was the first direct meeting between the President of Sierra Leone and
the RUF since the events of May 2000. It is obviously too soon to predict
the outcome of such talks. They are a welcome step, but many pitfalls
remain. Not least, the UNAMSIL has not yet been increased to the Secretary
General's target of 20,000, following the decision of Indian and Jordanian
troops to withdraw from the force.
OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3. The proposed supplemental credit in the amount of US$10 million would
assist the government in meeting the growing reconstruction and recovery
needs, especially in the social and economic sectors. It will enable to keep
the macroeconomic program on track and to implement the recovery program
supported by the Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit.
4. With a wider area of the country opening up as a result of improved
security, the Government is in a position to better meet the development



objectives it laid out in its Letter of Development Policy dated January 20,
2000. Larger than originally budgeted financing is required to meet these
growing reconstruction and recovery needs, especially in the social and
economic sectors. Although domestic revenue targets were exceeded by about
40 percent, and the Government expenditures were in line with the budget for
the six months of 2000, pressures to meet the growing reconstruction and
recovery needs necessitate increased levels of external assistance to keep
the macroeconomic program on track.
5. The Government discussed its proposal for a supplementary budget with
its international partners in June 2000. Based on strong indications of
support from donors, a supplementary budget of about Le 77 billion (about
US$38.5 million) was prepared and approved by Parliament in July 2000. The
main expenditures in the supplemental budget include education; health;
payment of salary arrears and recurrent salaries of those Sierra Leone Army
staff that were let go at the beginning of the year but were brought back
into the Army after the events of May 2000; transport allowance to all civil
servants effective July 2000; Government contribution to the disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration (DDR) program; peace operations ;
rehabilitation of district councils; emergency rehabilitation projects in
areas made accessible; micro credits to help the small entrepreneurs; and
loans to the National Power Authority to purchase fuel oil and diesel for its
generators. The counterpart funds generated from the supplemental credit
will provide critical budgetary support to finance some of the key
rehabilitation and reconstruction activities under the supplemental budget.
The Department for International Development (DfID) is also providing key
budgetary support for the year 2000.
FINANCING
6. The proposed IDA credit of an equivalent of US$10 million is expected to
be disbursed upon effectiveness; no additional conditions are being proposed
for its release. Total financing requirements, excluding clearance of
arrears, are estimated to be about US$142 million for 2000, compared to about
US$70 million for 1999. Given the dismal export prospects in the near term,
Sierra Leone's development partners have committed substantial resources to
finance Government's recovery efforts. Identified disbursements for 2000 are
about US$131 million, of which IDA's contribution will be about 32 percent.
In the absence of these additional funds, the Government's ability to meet
the fiscal and monetary benchmarks envisaged under the macroeconomic program
will be jeopardized. In particular, a shortfall in external program
assistance would need to be compensated by increased levels of domestic
borrowing or fiscal savings through lower levels of public expenditures in
those areas which are most vulnerable to budget shortfalls, notably the
social sectors, especially education. A supplemental credit of US$10 million
will largely fill the financing gap for 2000, bringing IDA share of total
financing to about 40 percent. Other donors, most notably DfID, have
committed substantial additional resources for 2001. These interventions
would bring IDA's share of total financing down to less than 15 percent in
2001.
IMPLEMENTATION
7. Implementation arrangements for the supplemental credit remain the same
as were for the original ERRC.
SUSTAINABILITY
8. The credit will make possible the financing of foreign exchange and
budgetary costs associated with extending peace and socio-political stability
and economic rehabilitation and recovery in those parts of the country that
- 2 -



have become accessible with the improvement in security.
LESSONS LEARNED FROM PAST OPERATIONS IN THE COUNTRY/SECTOR
9. Lessons learned from past operations experience are that program design
should be simple and address few but priority issues, and should be revised
midstream if necessary.
POVERTY CATEGORY
10. In its continued efforts to fight poverty, allocations to the social
sectors have been substantially increased to address urgent critical needs,
especially in education and health sectors. Textbooks, teaching and school
materials are being provided to all primary and secondary schools in
accessible areas for the academic year beginning September 2000. The school
health program has kicked off with school children given special
identification tags to facilitate their attendance at specially assigned
satellite clinics.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
11. The proposed Credit is not expected to have any negative environmental
impact. The credit has been placed in Category C, which does not require an
environmental assessment.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Task Manager:
Preeti Arora,
Senior Country Economist, AFTM5
Room J-9-125
Ext. 38275
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending, January 12, 2001.
- 3 -



