Document of
the World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P 7499 SL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.4 MILLION
(US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
November 20, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and ma- be used by recipients only in the|
perforniance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without|
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Leone (Le)
US$1                =     Le 221 (as of
Oct. 31, 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                    African Development Bank
AFRC                    Armed Forces Revolutionary Council
AGD                     Accountant General's Department
BOP                     Balance of Payments
BSL                     Bank of Sierra Leone
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                     Civil Defense Forces
CRRP                    Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation
DDR                     Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DFID/UK                 Department for Intemational Development/United Kingdom
ECOWAS                  Economic Community of West African States
ERRC                    Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EU                      European Union
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GOSL                    Government of Sierra Leone
HIPC                    Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IAAC                    Integrated Approach for Aid Coordination
IDA                     International Development Association
IDPs                    Internally Displaced Persons
IFC                     International Finance Corporation
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                  Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MTEF                    Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NCDDR                   National Commission for DDR
NCP                     National Commission for Privatization
NGOs                    Non-Governmental Organizations
NRRP                    National Rehabilitation and Recovery Program
PEs                     Public Enterprises
PETS                    Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PRGF                    Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
RUF                     Revolutionary United Front
RRR                     Resettlement, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
SAPA                    Social Action and Poverty Alleviation
SC                      Steering Committee
SPP                     Strategic Planning and Action Process
TC                      Technical Committee
UJNDP                   United Nations Development Program
Vice President            Callisto Madavo
Country Director          Peter Harrold
Sector Manager            Emmanuel Akpa
Task Team Leader          Preeti Arora



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT SUMMARY ...............           ..
I. BACKGROUND .1
II.  RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ON THE PEACE PROCESS                               .2
III. GOVERNMENT'S INTERIM POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY   . 3
IV. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY                                    .8
V.    MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT ..........................9..............                  9
VI.  SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT . 12
A.  OBJECTIVES AND TIMING .....................................................1............2............................ 12
B.  FEATURES OF THE CREDIT ..............................1....2............... 12
C.  BOARD PRESENTATION ..................................................... .. 1 8
D.  CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS .1......................................8..... 18
E.  CONDITIONS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE ............. 18
F.  COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ..1......9....                        19
G.  IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION ............ 1 9
H.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................2.................    ..... 20
VII. RECOMMENDATION .....                                                              21
ANNEXES
A. Timetable of Key Processing Events
B. Policy Matrix
C. Public Enterprise Reformn Program
D. Letter of Development Policy
E. Project Description Summary
F.  Sierra Leone Social Indicators
G. Sierra Leone at a Glance
H. Status of Bank Group Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:  Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:   SDR 39.4 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:     Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Credit
Description: The proposed Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC II)
is a quick - disbursing credit in the amount of US$50 million that will support
selected aspects of Sierra Leone's interim poverty reduction strategy. It
supports a program that builds on the reforms initiated under the Economic
Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) in the area of poverty
monitoring, service delivery and accountability in the use of public
resources. ERRC II will provide critical resources to finance part of the
foreign exchange and budgetary costs associated with establishing peace and
good governance; relaunching the economy; and restoring basic public
services. The proceeds will allow the import of essential commodities,
including food products, petroleum products, and raw materials and
intermediate goods required for relaunching the economy. They will also
enable the Government to provide basic services, including the
rehabilitation of necessary social and economic infrastructure in those parts
of the country that have become accessible following the positive
developments on the peace and security fronts. It will complement similar
support provided by DFID, AfDB, EU and IMF.
Benefits:   The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's transitional support
strategy to assist Sierra Leone in implementing its program to consolidate peace
and enhance governance, relaunch the economy and improve service delivery.
The program will help to revive basic public services and restore credibility to
public sector performance by supporting mechanisms that ensure the delivery
of these services in a transparent and accountable manner. It will contribute to
economic recovery and growth by providing foreign exchange resources for
imports of essential commodities. By helping to close the financing gap in the
years 2001-02 in an orderly manner, it will also contribute to keeping inflation
low and maintaining macroeconomic stability.
Risks:     In view of the extensive economic and social dislocations caused by the war,
and the fragility of the peace process, there are several risks to the
implementation of the Government's poverty reduction strategy and the
reform program supported by the Credit. First, notwithstanding the marked
progress in the pace of disarmament of ex-combatants since May 2001, the



-ii-
pace of resettlement and reintegration of the displaced population has been
slow and the risk remains that the Govermnent may not be able to re-
establish full security and control in all parts of the country. By focusing Oc
the provision of basic services to the countryside as it becomes accessible,
the program includes elements to help reduce tensions and increase the
chances of sustained peace.
A second risk is posed by the possible lack of political commitment,
depending on the outcome of the Parliamentary and Presidential elections
due by May 2002. Another risk associated with the upcoming elections is
posed by the possibility of additional expenditure demands related to the
conduct of elections or winning constituencies through targeted programs.
Nevertheless, the broad-based support for the poverty reduction strategy that
is supported by the Credit is encouraging based on the results of the
participatory consultations. Agreement on a Fund program under the PRGF
and the Government's past track record of fiscal discipline in the face of
huge expenditure demands also mitigates this risk.
Third, weak institutional capacity could cause delays in implementing some
aspects of the rehabilitation and recovery program. This risk is being mitigated
in several ways: (i)  the design of peace-building activities incorporates
necessary institutional support; (ii) several on-going institutional capacitv
building initiatives, across all sectors of government - supported by the DFII),
EU, UNDP, AfDB, Fund and the Bank - to provide capacity building support;
and (iii) sustained peace will further enable institution building to be enhanced.
Project
Appraisal
Document: There is no separate project appraisal document.
Estimated
Disbursements:The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches over a period of 15 months.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC II) to the Government of Sierra
Leone (GOSL) for SDR 39.4 million, the equivalent of US$50 million. The ERRC II follows the
successfully completed Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) and would
provide support to finance near-term activities that are critical for the consolidation of peace and
improved governance, revival of the economy and the restoration of basic public services as laid
out in the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). By helping close
the financing gap, it will facilitate imports of essential commodities, including food, petroleum
products and raw materials and intermediate products required for relaunching the economy. It
will also enable the Govermment to provide basic services, including the restoration of law and
order and rehabilitation of necessary social and economic infrastructure that will allow
communities to return to normalcy. Adequate funding will also facilitate the preparation of a
fully participatory PRSP.
1.    BACKGROUND
2.    On February 17, 2000, the Board of Executive Directors approved the Economic
Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC) for Sierra Leone (IDA Credit 3321-SL) in the amount
of SDR 21.9 million (US$30 million equivalent). The ERRC supported the Government's
National Rehabilitation and Recovery Program (NRRP) and had three main components: (i)
promoting protective security/peace-building and reconciliation; (ii) promoting social and
economic security, through public expenditure reform; injecting governnent resources into the
economy through the settlement of domestic public sector arrears to the private sector; and
public enterprise reform; and (iii) promoting transparent and inclusive governance, with a focus
on improving public accounting procedures, adopting a national anti-corruption strategy and
advancing participatory governance processes. The program was implemented successfully
within a sound macroeconomic framework and the Credit was fully disbursed in June 2001.
3.    Despite some setbacks on the security front in mid-2000, the Government's NRRP
achieved solid progress in several areas:
Protective security andpeace building
* A third Phase of the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) program is
being implemented;
* National Army being trained;
Social and economic security



-2 -
*  Free primary education for grades 1-3 from September 2000 and introduction of universal
free primary education beginning with the academic year 2001;
*  Textbooks, teaching and school materials provided to all primary and secondary schools
in accessible areas beginning with the academic year 2000;
*  Free medical consultation and drugs to all pregnant and suckling mothers as well as
children under the age of five years from January 2001. Free basic primary health care to
all school children under the existing school health program; HIV/AIDS information
programs have commenced and preparation of an HIV/AIDS program underway;
*  Improved business environment led a number of industries, including the brewery, soft
drinks, paint and cement, to rehabilitate their plant and equipment and resume
production;
*  Domestic arrears settlement program to honor huge obligations to the private suppliers,
approved by Cabinet in October 2000, and being successfully implemented;
Transparent and inclusive governance
*  Establishment and operationalization of a certification system for the export of diamonds
has resulted in higher diamond exports through the official channels;
a  Anti-Corruption Commission functioning;
*  Payroll verification completed; commitment control enhanced at the Accountant
General's Department.
II.   RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ON THE PEACE PROCESS
4.    The DDR Program has progressed well, since formally re-starting in May 2001. Through
early November, 2001, about 27,000 combatants have been demobilized, and disarmament in the
last two districts of Kenema and Kailahun is expected to commence soon. Disarmament and
demobilization are projected to conclude by the end of 2001. Reinsertion benefit payments -
serving as a temporary social safety net - were restarted in October 2001 and as of November
2001, the National Commission of Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (NCDDR)
has made more than 18,700 payments of approximately US$150 per ex-combatant.
5.    More than 14,500 ex-combatants are currently involved or have already taken advantage
of reintegration opportunities offered under the DDR Program. While fund raising efforts since
June 2001 have yielded more than US$20 million in additional resources for the DDR Multi-
donor Trust Fund administered by the World Bank, the program is still projecting a short-fall of
US$16 million through the end of 2002, which may affect reintegration activities and related
operating costs. Further, this projected short-fall could increase if, as it appears likely, the actual
number of combatants disarmed significantly exceeds estimates from earlier in 2001. Therefore,
the Government, with the support of the World Bank and other major partners, plans to convene
a follow-up donors conference in early 2002 to seek additional support for reintegration and on-



-3 -
going community reconstruction activities.  Successful completion of disarmament and
demobilization and resettlement of ex-combatants and the displaced population will pave the
way for Presidential and Parliamentary elections, scheduled to be held in May 2002. These
recent developments hold out good hope for consolidating peace and reviving the economy.
They also put a significant financial strain on the Government and it is seeking donor support to
continue to implement its programs for economic and social recovery.
III.  GOVERNMENT'S INTERIM POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
6.    The Government has prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)
based on extensive dialogue and consultations with civil society groups, community leaders,
professional groups and non-government organizations. In collaboration with the Bank and the
Fund, the Government has also prepared a three year economic program which is being
supported under the Fund's poverty reduction and growth facility (PRGF). The I-PRSP
(Document no. IDA/SECM2001-0483) and the preliminary Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC-Document no.IDA/R2001-0134) Initiative document were discussed at the Board on
September 25, 2001.
7.   In the I-PRSP, the Government has adopted a two-phased approach to poverty reduction
- a transitional phase and a medium term phase. This is appropriate, given the immediate post-
war challenges, and the longer term social and economic infrastructure requirements of
sustainable development.  In the transitional phase, covering the period 2001-02, the
Government focuses its policies on addressing the immediate post-war needs, including:
strengthening security and law and order; rebuilding the social and physical infrastructure; and
providing basic services to the most vulnerable. The medium term phase of the poverty
reduction strategy focuses on longer term development and poverty reduction issues, and will be
elaborated in the context of the full PRSP. The development strategy as elaborated in the I-
PRSP differs from past Sierra Leone development strategies in one very important respect that
bodes well for its successful implementation. It is based on extensive consultations with citizens
from across the country, resulting in a shared national vision on medium term development
priorities and strategies.
8.   In the transitional phase, emphasis will be placed on national security and good
governance, relaunching the economy, and providing basic social services to the most
vulnerable groups. In the medium term, the focus will be on good governance, the revival of the
economy, and social sector development.
9.    National Security and Good Governance. The Government gives high priority to
security in order to allow the free movement of persons and goods, necessary to create an
enabling environment for poverty reduction. A key component for the re-establishment of
security countrywide is the implementation of the DDR program. It is targeted at approximately
45,000 ex-combatants from the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC), Revolutionary
United Force (RUF) and the Civil Defense Force (CDF). In parallel with the implementation of
the DDR program, the Government has also developed a comprehensive security policy that
provides a clear framework for the operation of the sector. In order to give effect to this policy,
Government has promulgated the Security and Intelligence Act 2000. The Act will establish the
National Security Council as the highest security policy making body in the country. It will also



provide a legal framework for the operation of the entire security sector. The new security
policy provides for the establishment of a Central Intelligence and Security Unit, which will
complement the functions of the Military Intelligence Branch and the Special Branch of the
Police.
10.   To foster good governance, the Government's priority is to strengthen institutional
capacity in support of the rule of law and economic management, and simultaneously ensure that
transparency and accountability are firmly established. The Government's Good Governance
program aims to put in place a more decentralized, transparent and proactive system of
governance to minimise corruption in government and public administration. Under the ERRC,
the Government has made positive strides to use effective fiscal and expenditure control and
sound financial management systems to minimize corruption by sharpening accountability and
reducing the scope for non-transparent budgetary transactions. A financial information svstem
has been installed in the Accountant General's Department (AGD), with the assistance of the
European Union. This system, which is computerized, comprises a main accounting system, an
expenditure commitment control system, a payroll system, a pension system and a stores
accounting and control system. The expenditure commitment control system is interfaced with
the accounting system for commitment control of the appropriated budget before the issS.e of
orders for goods and services. A system has also been designed to control and account for salary
advances. This system interfaces with the payroll system. Reconciliation of the main operating
bank accounts is done on a regular basis. The system enables the authorities to closely monitor
and report monthly on budget execution.
11.   At the same time, the legal apparatus for fighting corruption has also been strengthened.
The Anti-corruption Commission (ACC) investigates instances of alleged or suspected
corruption referred to it by any person or authority and takes steps as may be necessary for the
eradication or suppression of corrupt practices.
12.   Key elements of the extended program under the ERRC II are the following: (i) re-
activation of local government administration and decentralization of central government
functions - restoration of paramount chiefs and conducting democratic elections in vacant
chiefdoms and district councils; (ii) awareness-raising among the civil populace about their
rights, privileges and obligations and enhancing the role of the media by improving information
and communication infrastructure; (iii) public sector reform and capacity building for efficient
and effective service delivery - reorganizing and downsizing the civil service and enhancing
economic management capacity; (iv) reinforcement of the judiciary and legal system for
safeguarding the rule of law and human rights; (v) restructuring of the military and the police;
(vi) enhancement of accountability in the use of public funds; and (vii) strengthened capacity of
the ACC. Civil society will play a key role in the planning and monitoring of policies and
budgetary oversight. In this regard, emphasis will be placed on effective participation of the
populace in governance issues.
13.   The Government will intensify (in terms of quality and coverage) the use of several
instruments supported under the ERRC to monitor and evaluate the implementation of its
poverty strategy. These instruments include: (i) the Strategic Planning and Action Process (SPP)
to facilitate participatory consultations on the development strategy for poverty alleviation and
developing performance benchmarks (outcome indicators) and assessing community welfare



through simple participatory techniques like the "Smiley Game"'; (ii) service delivery surveys to
monitor improvements in service delivery using selected baseline indicators and to monitor
implementation of development projects at the facility level to determine impact on local
communities; and (iii) expenditure tracking surveys to assess the efficiency and quality of
service delivery.
14.   Relaunching the Economy.   Government recognizes that the maintenance of
macroeconomic stability is a pre-requisite for the attainment of sustainable and higher economic
growth. In this regard, it has prepared a three year economic program (see paragraphs 30 - 36)
in collaboration with the Bank and Fund that is being supported under the IMF's PRGF.
15.   Government will intensify its on-going efforts to strengthen public expenditure
management to ensure accountability, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds.
Cabinet has approved the implementation of the medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF)
from the 2001 financial year. Within the MTEF framework, Government will continue to
reorient its expenditures in line with its growth and poverty reduction priorities with a role for
civil society in budgetary oversight. The main objective of public expenditure policy is to shift
allocations away from the lower priority areas to the social and economic sectors, especially
health, education, agriculture and rural infrastructure. The key challenge in public expenditure
management will be to obtain increasing gains in terms of service delivery to rural communities.
16.   Development of the private sector is an important part of the Government's strategy to
jumpstart recovery and growth, by stimulating small enterprise development and divesting public
enterprises to enable greater private sector participation. The Government has implemented
various micro finance schemes in 2000 to ease the bottleneck of financing for small scale
enterprises with varying degrees of success. The Cabinet approved the Strategic Plan for the
Divestiture of PEs on May 30, 2001. This strategy contains short and medium term steps as well
as the timeframe for their completion. Since the adoption of the policy, a number of important
steps have been taken.  A National Commission for Privatization (NCP), a Presidential
Commission with an executive secretariat, has been established to implement the PE divestiture
program. In line with best practice, the Commission will act as the prudent "shareholder" of all
public enterprises in the government portfolio with a mandate to manage enterprises
independently. Nominees for Commissioners of the National Commission for Privatization
(NCP) have been approved by the President and await Parliamentary confirmation. Applications
have been received for the positions of Executive Secretary, Policy Analysts and support staff.
The NCP is expected to be fully functioning by end December. The Government has collected
about 60 percent of the outstanding payments relating to past or ongoing privatization
transactions. Over 2001/02, the Government plans further actions on these fronts: (i) stimulate
small-scale enterprise development through the elimination of the bottleneck of financing; and
(ii) reduce government's role as owner and operator of public enterprises (PEs) by implementing
the divestiture strategy prepared under the ERRC. The Government views the provision of
micro finance as a key instrument to overcome the financing bottleneck faced by low-income
' The "Smiley Game" serves as a mechanism for ordinary citizens - whether or not they can read or write - to
measure progress in community welfare on an ongoing basis using commonly understood indicators known as
popular benchmarks.



households. Towards this end, the Government will develop a comprehensive micro finance
policy framework with technical assistance from international institutions.
17.   The Government will also implement measures in key economic sectors to ensure
sustainable growth in output. In the area of agriculture, Government's priority is to enable IDPs
and returnees to restart agriculture activities and increase agricultural productivity. In this
connection, Government will (i) provide returnees and IDPs with basic farm inputs ancd tools
through the NCRRR and other donor-supported programs, including the IDA financed
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP); (ii) ensure the provision of
extension services to the resettled farming population; (iii) initiate the rehabilitation of partially
developed Inland Valley Swamps; (iv) promote community rehabilitation and maintenance of
feeder roads and bridges to increase access of the rural farming population and the urban poor to
market centres. The improved accessibility to farming communities and the implementation of
these measures will increase the contribution of agriculture to GDP by 6 percent in 2001.
18.   With the restoration of security and improved access to the mining areas, the mining
sector is expected to make a strong positive contribution to income and employment generation.
The Government aims to improve the livelihood of the returning mining population and
encourage activities in this sector to be more open and transparent. In October 2000, the
Government, with support of the United Nations, bilateral partners and industry representatives
has undertaken important measures to institute a certification of origin scheme for diamonds.
This follows UN Resolution 1305, which imposed an embargo on diamonds that are produced in
Sierra Leone, and reach markets through unofficial channels. As a result, exports of alluvial
diamonds through the official channels have gone up to US$10 million in 2000.  The
Government expects these diamond exports to go up to US$24 million in 2001.  The
Government will further pursue its objectives in the sector in 2002 through the enforcement of
the provisions of the current mining policy relating to the development of the artisanal and small-
scale miners, while at the same time seeking technical assistance to develop a mining sector
policy framework suitable for the current environment.
19.   Government's priority in the infrastructure sector, in the short-term, is to improve land,
coastal and river transportation in order to increase access of the rural fanrning population and the
urban poor to market centres as well as social and economic services. The key focus will be on
promoting community rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads and bridges. At the same
time, major trunk roads and jetties will be rehabilitated. Government's efforts are supported by
several donors, including the Bank, through the Transport Sector project and the social fund
mechanism under the Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation project.
20.   In the medium  term, the Government's objective is to transform  the transport
infrastructure into an efficient, safe and reliable system. Its role in the sector will be limited to a
regulator and provider of basic infrastructure (like feeder roads). In this context, the capacity of
the Sierra Leone Roads Authority for planning and sustainable maintenance of the road network
will be strengthened. To further reduce the cost of rural transportation, efforts will also be made
to promote the use of non-motorized transport (such as pushcart, bicycle) in rural communities.
Improving the performance of the energy sector is also considered to be critical for generating a
supply response. In this context, the Government will gradually reduce its role as provider of
electricity through the National Power Authority (in accordance with the Divestiture Strategy).



-7-
Efforts will also be made to make the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Dam operational so that reliable
electricity can be provided to a large proportion of the country.
21.   Revival of Basic Public Services. This requires the rehabilitation of service centers and
infrastructure in the near term. It also requires that public expenditures be managed with
enhanced rigor and allocative efficiency. On the public expenditure front, since the beginning of
reforms in 1991, the Government has striven to keep budgetary allocations in line with the
declared priorities for providing basic social and economic services.  Despite the increase in
military outlays in the last few years to bring the rebel war to an end, the Government has
protected expenditures in the social sectors. However, the economic sectors have suffered due to
the lack of resources. With the peace process firmly on track, there is a particular commitment
to providing key services to the regions outside Freetown and the Western area, areas which have
been neglected in the past. It will ensure that public resources will be used in a transparent and
accountable manner.
22.   In the education sector, the Government's priority is to increase school enrollment and
retention rates as well as improve the quality of basic education. In addition to rehabilitating the
schools, the Government will increase budgetary resources to schools for the acquisition of basic
teaching equipment and essential school supplies and texts. Non-salary recurrent expenditures in
the sector increased from Le 14 billion in 2000 (7 percent of total non-salary, non-interest
recurrent expenditures) to over Le 25 billion in 2001 (13 percent of non-salary, non-interest
recurrent expenditures). The Government has introduced universal free primary education (that
is, for classes 1-6) with effect from September 2001 in all Government-owned and assisted
schools. While the program has only been successfully embraced in the Western area, it is
expected that awareness raising activities promoting free primary education will lead to
significant increases in enrolment in the rest of the country by next year. The Government will
continue to fund the payment of the salaries of teachers, provision of textbooks, teaching and
learning materials and fees to facilitate wider access to primary schools. The on-going school
transportation program that provides subsidized bus fares to school children in the capital city
will be expanded and extended to the major provincial towns and rural areas.
23.   In the health sector, the Government seeks to reduce maternal and infant mortality rates
and to control and prevent the spread of malaria and other communicable diseases. Reviews
conducted by the Government have shown that this is constrained by the availability of both
financial and human resources. To overcome these constraints, the government will increase
budgetary allocations to basic health centres, reconstruct and rehabilitate peripheral health
clinics, and hire and train additional medical staff to improve access to basic health care services,
especially in the rural areas. The school health program, mainly providing free health care to
urban school children, will be continued and extended to the rural areas.
24.   Given the huge displacement of the population and destruction of homes, the
Govermment is particularly concerned about providing affordable housing and community
facilities for returnees and the internally displaced people. Government's objective is to build
local capacity to produce and deliver low cost building materials as well as increase the stocks of
low cost shelter units and provide the enabling environment for enhanced private sector
participation in the supply of affordable housing units.



-8 -
IV.   BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
25.   Given the fragility of the political and security situation in Sierra Leone, the Bank has
opted to manage its assistance to the country in 2001 under an updated Transitional Support
Strategy, discussed by the Board on December 14, 2000 (Document no. IDA/R2000-209). Bank
support would enable Sierra Leone to remain on the reconstruction and development track, and
would also facilitate the development of a framework for effective mobilization of donor
resources for critical poverty reduction activities. The strategy has two main elements. First, the
Bank would continue to support economic recovery and rehabilitation. This would be through
(i) the proposed Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit; (ii) the ongoing
Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project (CRRP) and via the Bank's role as
administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund which supports the DDR program. The CRRP
supports community driven projects in agriculture to help restart farming activities to improve
livelihoods and restore food security as well as small infrastructure projects to rehabilitate
schools and health facilities; and (iii) the restructured portfolio, providing support to the
Government to meet critical reconstruction needs in power, water, transport and health.
26.   Second, if the security situation and economic perfornance continue to improve, the
Bank would shift gradually to support longer-term development objectives. A particular focus
would be on supporting the Government to prepare and implement its poverty reduction strategy.
Key sectors include education, agriculture and rural development, infrastructure and capacity
building.
27.   To improve the effectiveness, timeliness and flexibility of Bank assistance to Sierra
Leone in a context of rapidly changing conditions, a Bank Country Manager for Sierra Leone is
now based in country.
28.   To meet Sierra Leone's exceptional financing needs in this transitional period, a second
ERRC for about $30 million was part of the Transitional Support Strategy. The security
situation, particularly as reflected in recent rapid progress on the DDR program, has improved
substantially since the Board discussion in December 2000.  As already explained, the
improvement in security translates to substantially higher financial requirements cf the
Government as it needs to provide basic services in newly opened areas and to fund adequately
the DDR program. In addition, during the last 12 months, the performance of Sierra Leone has
improved significantly, as has the status of the current portfolio. These factors explain the
increase in the amount proposed for the credit.
29.   The strategy clearly lays out transition and exit scenarios. The direction, nature and
extent of Bank support during the transition strategy will depend on developments in the security
situation countrywide and on Sierra Leone's economic policy performance, as outlined in Report
No. 21322-SL, Table 3. The four scenarios presented in the table correspond to the possible
levels of attainmnent in security and economic performance: scenario I corresponding to full
peace and good policy environment; scenario 2 corresponding to a generally stable security
situation and sound policy framework; scenario 3 corresponding to deteriorating security and
weaker policies; and scenario 4 corresponding to full resumption of fighting and an off track
program. Currently, Sierra Leone is under Scenario 2. Further improvement to Scenario 1
would create the required conditions for the Bank to commence preparation of a CAS.



-9-
Regression to Scenario 3 would result in operations being scaled down in a drastic manner and a
hold being put on further preparations for new lending. Scenario 4 would lead to the Bank
taking an Exit Option. The Bank would continue to monitor the security situation on a regular
basis and would, through the quarterly Monitoring Report on Conflict-affected Countries, update
the Board on latest developments and, as necessary, on related adjustment in Bank assistance.
Given the marked improvement in the security and peace building front as well as economic
performance, the Bank is currently preparing an update of its transitional support strategy for
Sierra Leone covering a two year period, 2002-03. The strategy will be presented to the Board in
February 2002. At that time, support for new operations will be proposed.
V.   MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
30.   The Government is committed to maintaining and strengthening macroeconomic stability
to elicit a strong private sector response, especially in a post-conflict environment, that is critical
for attaining a high level of economic growth. It has prepared a medium-term macroeconomic
framework in collaboration with the Fund and Bank staff and will implement its poverty
reduction strategy within that framework. The main objectives of the program in the medium-
term are: (i) achieve real GDP growth rate of 5 percent in 2001, rising to 6-7 percent in 2002-04;
(ii) limit inflation to 8 percent in 2001, and 5 percent in 2002-04; and (iii) raise gross foreign
exchange reserves to the equivalent of over 2 months of imports. Recovery in agriculture and
mining sectors, and the rehabilitation and reconstruction activities are expected to contribute
significantly to GDP growth. Low inflation will be attained through the pursuit of prudent fiscal
and monetary policies.
31.   Fiscal Policy. In line with the Government's objectives under the I-PRSP, the overall
budget deficit (excluding grants) is targeted to increase in 2001 and record a reduced, but still
large, deficit in 2002, mainly because a substantial amount of resources would be allocated to
strengthening security, consolidating peace, rehabilitating key social and economic infrastructure
and targeting more resources for service delivery in the newly accessible parts of the country.
Domestic revenues are expected to rise from 11.4 percent of GDP in 2000 to 12.3 percent of
GDP in 2001 and to about 14 percent of GDP by 2004 as a result of the recovery in the mining
sector and further tax administration reforms.
32.   Expenditures were programmed to increase sharply from 29 percent of GDP in 2000 to
about 41 percent of GDP in 2001 reflecting the large reconstruction program, interest payments
and outlays on the DDR and RRR programs. As a result, the overall budget deficit (excluding
grants) was expected to be about 28 percent of GDP in 2001. Due to the delays in opening up
the country, development expenditures and expenditures related to the RRR program have been
lower than programmed. As a result, total expenditures are only projected to be 35 percent of
GDP for 2001. Despite the higher domestic revenues and lower expenditures, the overall deficit
excluding grants is estimated at 21 percent of GDP due to the shortfalls in grant aid.



-10-
Table 1: Sierra Leone: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators, 1998-2002
1998       1999       2000       2001         2002
(rev. est.)   (prog.)
Growth rates (%)
Real GDP                        -0.8       -8.1        3.8        5.0          6.0
Consumer prices (average)       35.5       34.1       -0.9        8.0          5.0
(In percent of GDP unless specified otherwise)
National Accounts
Consumption                      101.9      105.7      108.1      104.0        101.8
Public                         8.9        11.5       16.7       16.0          16.0
Private                        93.0       94.3       91.4       88.0         85.8
Investment                      5.3        0.3         8.0        15.0         29.0
Public                         4.9        2.4        6.3        9.3           15.6
Private                        0.4        -2.1       1.7        5.7           13.4
Gross domestic savings          -1.9       -5.7       -8.1        -4.0         -1.8
Balance of Payments
Trade balance                   -3.0       -1.0        -9.7       -12.2        -23.0
Exports                        9.7        9.2        11.8       11.0         13.0
Imports                        12.7       10.3       21.6       23.2         36.0
Current account balance
Including official transfers   -6.3       -2.8       -9.8       -10.8        -17.9
Excluding official transfers  -9.1        -8.0       -18.1      -20.5        -34.0
Public Finance
Total revenue (excl. current grants) 7.3   7.1         11.4       13.6         12.7
Total expenditures and net lending  20.1   22.0        28.7       34.5         40.6
Current expenditure            15.2       19.5       22.7       24.9         24.9
Fiscal balance (commitment basis)
Including all grants           -10.4     -9.5        -9.3       -11.4        -11.3
Excluding all grants          -12.8      -14.9       -17.3      -20.9        -27.9
Primary fiscal balance'1        -3.8       -5.5        -5.5       -4.7         -5.5
Domestic financing              4.0        7.4        0.1         2.1          1.0
Other Items
GDP (billions of local currency)    1,051.3    1,207.7    1,330.3    1,507.9   1678.0
Exchange rate (local/US)         1,565.4    1,819.3    2,098.0
Source: Sierra-Leone authorities and staff estimates and projections.
1/ Domestic revenue less total expenditure and net lending (excluding interest payments and extemnally
financed capital expenditure).
33.     Implementation of the budget for 2001 has generally remained on track for the first three
quarters of the year. Revenue performance up to the third quarter of 2001 has been better than
programmed and domestic revenues for the year as a whole are expected to be about 13.6 percent
of GDP. However, shortfalls in programmed external budgetary support resulted in lower than
programmed levels of domestic revenues and grants. Expenditures remained generally within the
budgeted levels. However, pressure remained strong on the wage bill as the teachers' payroll
exceeded budget estimates, raising the total wage bill above the end-September target.
Expenditures on the DDR program have increased rapidly since the acceleration of the process in
May 2001. Although capital and rehabilitation expenditures have been lower in the first half,
they are expected to pick up as the country opens up following improvement in the security
situation.
34.     Monetary  and  Financial Sector Policies.  Monetary policy will continue to  aim  at
controlling inflation and attaining the gross foreign reserves target of the Bank of Sierra Leone.
Low inflation will relieve pressure on prices of basic commodities and will contribute to the



- 1 1 -
establishment of a stable environment for the recovery of economic activity, and thereby of
improving income opportunities. This will be achieved by limiting the increase in net credit to
the Government and the net domestic assets of the central bank. Inflation, while remaining
within the program target, has shown recent increases (year-on-year rate of inflation rising from
-7.2 percent in January 2001 to 6 percent in September 2001) owing to a steady depreciation of
the Leone. Monetary growth during the first half of 2001 was influenced mainly by fiscal
developments. Delays in programmed external budgetary support (para. 32) led to higher than
programmed recourse to domestic bank financing. Broad money rose by 19 percent during the
same period, driven mainly by an increase in commercial bank credit to the Government.
Table 2. Sierra Leone: External Finance Requirements, 1997 - 2002
(In millions of USS)
1997     1998     1999     2000     2001      2002
Curfentaccountgap          27.5     60.8     53.0    115.0    153.3    284.8
Amortization               2437     30.3     37.3      38.6     46.3     64.0
Change in arrears         -23.2    -36.3    -17.4    -20.5    182.4       0.0
Increaseinreserves         11.7      5.0    -10.7      11.3      8.0     11.4
Total requirements         40.7     59.8     62.2    144.4    390.0    360.2
Financing                  40.7     59.8     62.2    144.4    390.0    360.2
Grants                     19.0     18.6     34.7      52.8     72.5    130.0
Loans                      30.7     44.9     24.2      73.7    107.2     98.4
O/w BOP                    19.4     26.1     24.2      47.9     37.5     43.0
Foreign direct investment    0       3.5      1.7       2.0     13.2     63.4
Debt relief                12.2
Short-tern capital        -21.1     -7.1      1.6      16.0     -2.9     16.8
Poss. Rescheduling of arrears                                  200.0
Possible new debt relief
Unidentified/Gap                                                         51.6
35.    With recent improvements in security country wide, several banks have started reopening
key branches outside Freetown. The share of non-perforning loans in the loan portfolio has also
improved - declining from 55 percent in 1999 to about 44 percent in 2000. A new Financial
Institutions Act, designed to improve the performance of the non-bank financial institutions, has
been approved. New Banking Regulations have also been passed and all banks are now required
to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of 15 percent.
36.    External Sector Policies.  Given the large financial requirements for reconstruction
needs and the slow pickup of exports, current account deficit is expected to widen to about 21
percent of GDP in 2001 and to about 34% in 2002 before gradually declining to about 17 percent
of GDP in 2004 after the recovery in rutile and agricultural exports and higher receipts from
official diamond and gold mining. The Government's program seeks to raise gross foreign
exchange reserves to the equivalent of over two months of imports cover by 2004. Gross
financing requirements are estimated at about US$390 million in 2001 and US$360 million in
2002. Despite the increase in capital inflows (including budget support of US$33 million from
the EU, US$15 million from the UK and US$13 million from the AfDB), there would be a
financing gap of US$225 million in 2001. The Government is seeking debt relief on Naples
terms from the Paris Club and other bilateral and private creditors, which will help to clear
external debt-service arrears of about US$200 million in 2001. It is also seeking debt relief
under the Enhanced HIPC initiative. If granted, this relief will reduce Sierra Leone's external



- 12 -
debt service to sustainable levels (without debt relief, debt service to the Fund alone is expected
to amount to 29 percent of exports of goods and services in 2003). The interim assistance, to be
provided after the decision point, will enable Sierra Leone to avoid accumulation of debt service
arrears in 2001-02. Disbursements from the Fund under the PRGF arrangement will amount to
about US25 million in 2001. Disbursements of about US$25 million are expected under the
ERRC II in 2001. This financing is critical at this stage because the revenue generating
mechanism that suffered sharply during the conflict is still at the stage of recovery.
VI.  SECOND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
A.   Objectives and Timing
37.   The proposed Second Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC 'X) is a
quick-disbursing credit in the amount of US$50 million that will support selected aspects of
Sierra Leone's interim poverty reduction strategy. This includes support to the reforns initiated
under the ERRC in public expenditure management, governance framework, public enterprise
reform and service delivery. It will provide critical resources to finance part of the costs
associated with establishing peace and good governance; relaunching the economy; and restoring
basic public services. The proceeds will allow the import of essential commodities, including
food products, petroleum products, and raw materials and intermediate goods required for
relaunching the economy and also enable the Government to provide basic services, including
the rehabilitation of necessary social and economic infrastructure in those parts of the country
that have become accessible following the positive developments on the peace and security
fronts. It will complement similar support provided by DFID, AfDB, EU and IMF.
38.   The credit is expected to be disbursed in two tranches over a period of 15 months. The
policy package draws on the work done during the implementation of ERRC as well as the
preparation of the I-PRSP. The reform program supported by ERRC II falls under the following
heads: (i) ensuring good governance; (ii) reviving growth by ensuring macroeconomic stability
and facilitating private sector development; (iii) efficient and equitable use of public resources;
and (iv) improved access to and quality of basic social services.
B.    Features of the Credit
39.   Good governance. Good governance is essential for effective public service deiivery.
Under the program supported in part by ERRC, the Government initiated several reforms aimed
at fighting corruption, including the establishment of the Anti-corruption Commission;
introduction of new financial management systems; and formalization of the SPP process. In
February 2001, the Anti-Corruption Act became Law. Subsequently, the Anti-Corruption
Commission was established and to date 595 reports have been made to the Commission. Of
these, 127 went to investigation. A total of 326 reports were referred to other agencies and 41
reports were closed with no action required. Some of the high profile cases charged to Court
include a High Court Judge, Acting Comrnissioner of Income tax, police inspector and a police
superintendent. Following up on reports received by the Government, the Minister of Transport
and Communications was arrested on suspicions of illegal diamond trading activities. The
Commission will continue to raise awareness among the public through seminars, workshops and



- 13-
surveys and strengthen its capacity to respond more effectively to the cases brought to its
attention (para. 11).
40.   The Government aims to use sound financial management systems to minimize
corruption by sharpening accountability and reducing the scope for non-transparent budgetary
transactions. It has instituted systems to improve budget management and expenditure control.
A financial information system, installed in the Accountant General's Department (AGD), with
the assistance of the European Union is functioning satisfactorily (para. 10). This system, which
is computerized, comprises a main accounting system, an expenditure commitment control
system, a payroll system, a pension system and a stores accounting and control system. The
expenditure commitment control system is interfaced with the accounting system for
commitment control of the appropriated budget before the issue of orders for goods and services
and it does not allow payments to be effected if there are no funds. The commitment number is
computer generated and no number will be issued if a particular budget line has no uncommitted
funds. The system also does not issue a cheque if a payment voucher has no commitment
number. This has helped the Government to track its expenditures. A system has also been
designed to control and account for salary advances. This system interfaces with the payroll
system.
41.    Under the updated agenda supported in part by ERRC II, a Bank team worked in
collaboration with a Government counterpart team to undertake the country profile for financial
accountability (CPFA) in October-November 2001 to better identify the strengths and
weaknesses of the system and to identify ways to further improve financial accountability. The
CPFA covers the public sector accounting environment; the legal and institutional framework;
revenue, budgeting and expenditure controls; accounting and financial reporting; and the overall
control environment including the Auditor General's role, and Parliamentary control. The
Preliminary report confirms that the current system has enabled the Government to greatly
improve accountability and transparency in the use of public funds. However, two key
weaknesses remain: (i) the system is not yet properly documented; and (ii) its reliance on a few
individuals to operate the system poses the risk of sustainability. Further, the present system in
use has been designed by the Accountant General (AG), who is the system administrator as well
as operator of the system. The Government intends to correct these weaknesses by ensuring that
full documentation with respect to the user requirements analysis, system design architecture, the
types of modules and their inter-relationships will be compiled. This will also include detailed
documentation of the system administration features. Further, in line with the observations of
the CPFA team, the functions of the system administrator will be separated from the functions of
the system operator to allow for adequate cross checks for financial controls.
42.   The Government is developing a participatory outcome monitoring system to monitor
and evaluate the progress of implementation and impact of its anti-poverty strategy (para. 13).
The monitoring process will assess improvements in service delivery, using quantitative and
qualitative indicators defined in consultation with civil society. It will also assess the efficient
and effective utilization of public resources allocated to both urban and rural communities. It has
conducted focus group discussions, a baseline service delivery survey and a pilot public
expenditure tracking survey. Based on the past experience and lessons learned from these
activities, the Government will conduct annual service delivery surveys and semi-annual public
expenditure tracking surveys to be administered at the national, district and local levels. A



-14-
public expenditure tracking survey (PETS) covering the first half of 2001 was undertaken by the
Medium-term Expenditure Framework/Technical Committee (MTEF/TC) assisted by the
students from the University of Sierra Leone who served as enumerators. A nationwide survey
was administered from August 6-19, 2001 to track expenditures from ministerial headquarters to
regional and district offices and assess the quality of service delivery at the facility and
community levels in respect of the critical poverty reduction activities. The survey covered the
following sectors: health, education, social welfare, water supply, agriculture, rural development
and security.  The MTEF/TC  and SPP/TC  in partnership with community stakeholder
representatives will share the responsibility of monitoring and tracking expenditures during the
implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. The findings of the surveys will be published
in the Gazette.
43.   Reviving Growth. ERRC II will support the Government's updated institutional and
policy reform agenda in the areas of macroeconomic stabilization and the creation of conditions
to allow a greater role of the private sector in jumpstarting the economy. Reforms ainmed at
macroeconomic stabilization will focus on maintaining fiscal discipline.
44.   The Government considers the revival of the private sector critical for reviving the
economy (para. 16). In the transitional period, its efforts will be geared to promoting micro-
enterprise development in order to create employment and raise incomes in the formal and
informal sectors.  Various micro finance schemes are currently being implemented in the
country. The Government has disbursed over Le 2.8 billion as micro finance in 20012. C'redit
was distributed, through the Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Unit (SAPA) and the
Cooperative Bank, to all functioning chiefdoms, with the amount allocated to each chiefdom
depending on the chiefdom class. District loan monitors, recruited through SAPA, monitor the
loans.  Micro finance schemes as they are currently being implemented in most cases are
catering to social needs rather than financing new economic opportunity. Also, the focus has
been on providing credit. Anecdotal evidence from ongoing micro-finance activities in Sierra
Leone suggests that these are not necessarily sustainable for a number of reasons including
inadequate interest rates (lower than existing rates for collateralized loans), unsustainable
repayment rates (between 75 and 90 percent), an unstable market environment and unsatisfactory
beneficiary targeting lacking adequate risk management.  Based on experiences of other
countries in Africa, the Government recognizes the need for providing savings services as well
as payments services for micro finance schemes to be sustainable and to focus on economic
activities and sustainable livelihoods3.  Accordingly, the Government will develop a policy
framework that will provide a basis for micro finance schemes so as to maximize their impact
and make them sustainable.
45.   The Government recognizes the mining sector as an important potential source of income
and employment generation. Development of the sector will depend on two key factors. The
first is the ability to attract private capital from foreign mining companies with the technical,
managerial and financial capabilities to reactivate rutile and bauxite mines, find new deposits,
and develop and operate new mines. And the second is creating conditions for development of
2 Of this amount Le. 1.2 billion is from the socially oriented outlays vote for 2001. The remaining amount was spent
from the special account into which outlays for micro finance were deposited in 2000.
3This does not mean that government should not cater to the social needs - only the means should not be micro
finance.



-15-
artisanal mining (it is estimated that 60-70% of the pre-war population in the mining areas
depended on mining activities). This requires, among other things, maintaining civil order in the
mining areas and establishing a sound regulatory framework for mining and marketing without
imposing excessive restrictions on production and sales. This can be achieved by creating: (i) an
enabling environment for attracting private investors into mineral exploration and mine
development; (ii) an appropriate framework for negotiating investment agreements, with the aim
of obtaining a fair share of the mining value for the country and the communities involved; and
(iii) a framework for artisanal mining - applying free-market principles, including taxation and
enforcement of basic environmental and social standards.
46.   The Bank has initiated a study in collaboration with key stakeholders in Sierra Leone on
the role of the mining sector in the post war recovery efforts.  The study will review current
policy, legal, regulatory, enforcement and institutional mechanisms within the mining sector, and
examine their main weaknesses. It will also identify core areas of effectiveness and additional
requirements and incentives necessary to enhance formal mining activities, including aspects
related to security, revenue, and productivity.  A key outcome of the study will be a revised
mining vision, policy and strategy, which will serve as a basis to identify required improvements
of the legislative, regulatory and fiscal framework, to be subsequently prepared and adopted by
the Government.
47.   Reforms aimed at the public enterprise (PE) sector to reinforce the reforms of public
resource management and also to create the scope for a greater private sector role in the economy
will also continue under ERRC II. The Cabinet approved the Strategic Plan for the Divestiture
of PEs on May 30, 2001. This strategy contains short and medium term steps as well as the
timeframe for their completion. Since the adoption of the policy, a number of important steps
have been taken. The Government has collected about 60 percent of the outstanding payments
relating to past or ongoing privatization transactions. Nominees for Commissioners of the
National Commission for Privatization (NCP) have been approved by the President and await
Parliamentary confirmation. Applications have been received for the positions of Executive
Secretary, Policy Analysts and support staff. The NCP is expected to be fully functioning by end
December.
48.   Government has taken steps to collect outstanding rental payments from leased hotels and
settle outstanding claims in accordance with the Cabinet policy. Government has also sent
letters to all hotel operators indicating that any charges incurred by Government agencies must
be paid directly by such agencies in accordance with proper budgeting and payment provisions,
and will not be considered by the Ministry of Finance and cannot be "offset" against lease
payments.
49.   The Government is making serious efforts to ensure that all parastatals are current on
PAYE taxes and in the case of Sierratel also the message tax. Payments owed as of end
December 2000 have been firmed up and a payment plan has been instituted. The payment
schedule is being generally adhered to. The Government is also finalizing the cross-debt
position as of end 1999 following the submission of audited accounts by the parastatals which
would enable the Commissioner of Income Tax to estimate the corporate tax due that will be
offset against the debts owed to these parastatals by the Government.



-16-
50.   The Government will continue to implement the Divestiture Strategy approved by the
Cabinet under the ERRC. The status of the key action steps under the strategy is providecl in
Annex C. Completion dates for some steps have been revised due to the delays caused by the
temporary upsurge of hostilities in May 2000 and delay to the election timetable.
51.  In parallel with the implementation of the divestiture strategy, the Government is looking
at identifying measures to improve the investment climate that supports domestic and foreign
direct investment. A Government team undertook a study mission on Trade and Investrnent
Promotion to Dakar in July 2001. Based on the outcome of the mission and recommendations
made by the team, the Cabinet has approved the establishment of a Professional Review Team
with the following broad objectives: (i) examine the technological, marketing and human
capabilities of Sierra Leonean enterprises; (ii) examine the adequacy of institutional support for
small and medium enterprises, including availability of credit; (iii) analyze the influence ol the
policy regime on small firm competitiveness; and (iv) propose strategies and policies to
strengthen Sierra Leone's competitive position in the ECOWAS sub-region. The study will
provide the design for a clear, transparent and fair legal and regulatory framework to enhance the
competitiveness of all enterprises and to create a level playing field which will ensure that all
enterprises - domestic, foreign, new and old will benefit from and be subjected to the same laws
and regulations. The Government will also prepare a new Foreign Direct Investment C'ode
which shall ensure that any benefits it confers shall not damage or disadvantage existing
enterprises unfairly and that they are designed solely to attract new investment capital.
52.   Public Expenditure Management. Efforts to improve public expenditure management
under the programs supported by the Bank and the Fund have achieved some success despite the
disruptions caused by the protracted civil war (para. 21).  Macroeconomic budgetary
management and aggregate expenditure control have been largely achieved. While the wage bill
was higher than programmed, the expenditures on goods and services were below the target for
the first half (Le 52 billion as against the allocation of Le 61 billion). The shortfall was largely
on account of social and economic sectors and the defense expenditures. With the previously
inaccessible areas now opening up, the expenditures for the third quarter have been in line with
the budget allocations. For the first three quarters of 2001, the social sectors accounted for about
40 percent of the total non-interest, non-salary recurrent expenditures. The Government also
spent Le 1.2 billion (about US$500,000) on socially oriented programs, including micro credit
financing for the disadvantaged youth and women. However, weaknesses remain at the level of
actual expenditures and service delivery. The Government's institutional reform program
supported by the proposed credit focuses on strengthening the medium term budget framework.
Keen to move forward with budgetary reforms, the Cabinet approved the implementation of the
MTEF from the 2001 financial year.
53.   The Budget for 2002 is currently being prepared. The budget circular was issued in July
2001, broadly reflecting the agreements reached with the Bank and the Fund on a medium term
program. In line with the priorities stated in the I-PRSP, the line departments prepared their
budget submissions. In its efforts to make the budget preparation process as participatory and
transparent as possible under the circumstances, the Government invited a wide array of
stakeholders, including paramount chiefs, parliamentarians, and various civil society
representatives and opinion leaders from different parts of the country to participate in the budget
discussions. The Government is reviewing some of the program heads under the budget to align



- 17 -
them more meaningfully to the objectives and outputs expected from each ministry, department
and agency. Further, the budget for the year 2002 will be prepared at the regional level and
quarterly allocations will be made at that level to enable a direct monitoring of expenditures
incurred at the regional levels.
54.    The Government is also strengthening its institutional capacity to monitor the use of
donor flows. This is particularly important in the context of the use of HIPC resources for
poverty reduction programs and activities. The Government, in collaboration with the UNDP, is
establishing a comprehensive database on aid flows within the Integrated Approach for Aid
Coordination (IAAC) framework. Towards this end, a Donor Assistance Database (DAD)
software has been developed. DAD is a comprehensive and fully integrated analytical tool that
will enable the Government to track and analyze international assistance by providing up to date
information collected from donors and recipients and made widely accessible via the internet.
The data collected will be cross-checked from projects registered through the NGO coordination
unit. The full use of the DAD program will allow the following: (i) information on aid inflows
in terms of amounts committed and disbursed to target beneficiaries; (ii) regional distribution of
aid inflows down to the chiefdom level; (iii) gaps in funding requirements for the various sectors
and regions; and (iv) discrepancies between what is reported by beneficiaries as donor flows and
what is reported by the donors. Ministry of Finance is also strengthening the Economic Affairs
Department in the Ministry to prepare monthly reports on donor inflows and expenditures
associated with those funds. The reports will be produced in collaboration with the Ministry of
Development and Economic Planning and the relevant line ministry and reconciled with the
DAD.
55.   Access to social services.  Access to social services, especially primary education,
healthcare, and clean water and sanitation have a direct impact on the quality of life of the poor,
especially in a post-conflict environment when most infrastructure has been damaged. The
Government remains committed to re-establish basic public services in the whole country. It has
implemented its stated policy of (i) free primary education for all beginning with the 2001 school
year; (ii) improved access for schooling through the rehabilitation of schools and the provision of
free text books for classes 4-6; (iii) introduction of school bus service in the Western areas (to be
extended to the districts as resources allow); and (iv) improved level of primary health care
services by increasing the number of primary health care centers that are in full operation and by
reviving the school health program which provides free medical consultation and drugs for
students at all levels of education. An amount of over Le 1.6 billion (about US$ 800,000) was
spent on the payment of school fees for primary school pupils. Key items of expenditure in the
health sector included the provision of primary health care services through the peripheral health
units in accessible areas, diets for hospitals and laboratory reagents for medical district
operations.
56.   The policy content of the proposed credit in this regard is focused on the implementation
of the Government's Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (RRR) program and
adequate allocation of resources for basic social services throughout the country. In order to
improve service delivery in the rural areas, the budget process (preparation and monitoring) in
2001 has been designed to ensure greater beneficiary involvement in the delivery of services and
more emphasis on results and outcomes. The Government is modifying the budget and
accounting code that allows the allocation of public resources by activity and region. This new



- 18 -
coding system will facilitate the tracking of resources to activities in rural areas. The MTEF/TC
has conducted sensitization workshops for civil society on budgetary oversight in all safe areas in
the country. The Government will periodically publish information on budgetary provisions and
service delivery at the local level.
C.    Board Presentation
57.   The following conditions of Board presentation have been met.
(i)    A satisfactory macroeconomic framework for 2001.
(ii)   Budget implementation reports for the first three quarters of 2001 produced.
(iii)  Public Accounts for 1999 and 2000 produced and submitted to the Auditor General.
(iv)   Public expenditure tracking surveys (PETS) for the first six months of 2001
conducted for the following sectors: (i) education; (ii) health; (iii) water supply; (iv)
agriculture and rural development; (v) security; and (vi) social welfare. Results
presented to Cabinet.
(v)   Establishment of the National Commission for Privatization and appointment of the
Commissioners.
(vi)  Payment plan for clearing cross-debts between Government and parastatals agreed.
D.    Credit effectiveness
58.   The credit will become effective upon ratification by the Sierra Leone Legislature and
IDA's receipt of a legal opinion of the Attorney General confirming the validity of the
Development Credit Agreement.
E.    Conditions for tranche release
59.   Release of each tranche will be conditioned on the maintenance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework as agreed with the Bank and the Fund.
60.   Conditions for the release of second tranche. The second tranche will be released after
a satisfactory review of performance on the following.
(i)   Strengthen the implementation of the Financial Information System in the Accountant
General's Department through: (a) full documentation of the system architecture of
the Financial Information System developed in the Accountant's General's
Department and preparation of all user's manuals for implementing the system; and
(b) separation of the functions of the system administrator and system operator
(paragraph 41).
(ii)   Develop a policy framework for the provision of sustainable micro finance services,
including savings services, payments services and micro credits (paragraph 44).



- 19 -
(iii) Formulate and adopt a revised Mining Policy to promote formal activity (including
artisanal mining) and attract private investment for medium and large scale mining
(paragraph 46).
(iv)  Implement the Strategic Plan for the Divestiture of Public Enterprises approved by
the Cabinet in accordance with the timetable set out in Annex C (paragraph 50).
F.    Collaboration with the IMF and other Donors
61.   Sierra Leone's donor partners have shown strong support to the Government in its
rehabilitation and recovery efforts. A two-day informal donors meeting on Sierra Leone was
held in Freetown on February 26-27, 2001. Donors commended the Government for its success
in implementing the 2000 stabilization program and for the good performance of the economy in
spite of the difficult environment. A Multi Donor Trust Fund, administered by the Bank,
provides supports to the DDR program. Sierra Leone was granted access to use the IMF
resources under the emergency post-conflict assistance facility (three purchases under the facility
have been granted since President Kabbah's return from exile in March 1998). The IMF has
agreed on a medium-term economic prograrn which is supported under the PRGF in an amount
equivalent to SDR 130.84 million (126 percent of quota). Of this amount SDR 37.5 million has
been used to repurchase existing obligations under the Fund's emergency post-conflict policy.
The agreement on a Fund program has triggered further budgetary support from the AfDB and
the DFID in the amount of SDR 10 million and 10 million pound sterling respectively. The
Bank and Fund staff have jointly prepared a preliminary enhanced HIPC Initiative document as
well as the joint staff assessment of the Government's I-PRSP - both documents were presented
to the respective Boards in September 2001.
G.   Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision
62.   The Borrower will be the Republic of Sierra Leone, represented by the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). Upon approval of the Credit, the MOF will open a deposit account at the Bank
of Sierra Leone. IDA will deposit the proceeds of the Credit in this account at the request of the
MOF. The proposed Credit will be released in two tranches and will follow the simplified IDA
procedures for adjustment operations (February 8, 1996). IDA disbursements will not be linked
to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements. In case the
proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance items imported
from non-member countries, or goods and services on IDA's standard negative list), IDA will
require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes;
or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent
undisbursed amount of the Credit. IDA reserves the right to require an audit of the special
account at any time.
63.   Monitoring. The Government's reform effort, supported by the proposed ERRC II, will
be managed under the overall supervision of a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of
Finance. This Committee is composed of key Ministers (including the Minister of Development
and Economic Planning, Health, Education and Presidential Affairs) and the Governor of the
Bank of Sierra Leone. A Technical Committee comprising of high level staff from various line
ministries and the Bank of Sierra Leone will assist the Steering Committee and will be



-20 -
responsible for monitoring the program, including policy indicators and coordinating the
activities of all Government agencies involved in program implementation. This Committee will
be chaired by the Financial Secretary. Periodically, the Committee will inform the Bank on
implementation progress. The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the Government in close
coordination with regular Bank and IMF missions to ensure continued implementation of the
program within a sound macroeconomic framework and a positive impact on poverty alleviation.
64.   Indicators and Benchmarks. During the preparation of the I-PRSP, the Government
has identified broad indicators (and their base levels wherever available) for all program areas.
The authorities will use these indicators to monitor progress towards achieving the goals of their
program. Given the short time period for the implementation of the ERRC II, a logical
framework which relates the objectives more clearly to monitorable policy and intermediate
outputs has been prepared and is attached as Annex E. With the support of the Bank. the
authorities have worked out intermediate performance indicators which will be monitored by
Bank staff to assess how the credit contributes to the success of the Government's efforts.
H.   Benefits and Risks
65.   Benefits. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's transitional support
strategy. The credit would support policies that would help sustain peace and security through
the implementation of the DDR and RRR programs. It will help to revive basic public services
and restore credible public sector functions by supporting mechanisms that ensure delivery of
services in key sectors, in particular the social sectors, in a transparent and accountable marnner.
It will contribute to economic recovery and growth by providing foreign exchange resources for
imports of essential commodities, by providing financial resources to the Government budget to
finance priority public expenditures and by supporting reforms to attract private investment. By
closing the financing gap, it will also contribute significantly towards reducing inflation, and
achieving macroeconomic stability in the next two years.
66.   Risks. In view of the extensive economic and social dislocations caused by the war, and
the fragility of the peace process, there are several risks to the implementation of the
Government's poverty reduction strategy and the reform program supported by the Credit. First,
notwithstanding the marked progress in the pace of disarmnament of ex-combatants since Mlay
2001, the pace of resettlement and reintegration of the displaced population has been slow and
risk remains of the Government not being able to re-establish full security and control in all parts
of the country.  The proceeds from the credit will provide the Government with critical
resources to provide basic services to the countryside as it becomes accessible, thereby reducing
tensions and increasing the chances of sustained peace.
67.   A Second risk is posed by the possible lack of political commitment, depending on the
outcome of the parliamentary and presidential elections due in May 2002. Another risk
associated with the upcoming elections is posed by the possibility of additional expenditure
demands related to the conduct of elections or winning constituencies through targeted programs.
Nevertheless, the broad-based support for the poverty reduction strategy that is supported b) the
credit is encouraging based on the results of the participatory consultations. Agreement on a
Fund program under the PRGF and the Government's past track record of fiscal discipline in the
face of huge expenditure demands mitigates this risk.



-21 -
68.   Third, weak institutional capacity could cause delays in implementing some aspects of
the rehabilitation and recovery program. This risk is being mitigated in several ways: (i) the
design of peace-building activities incorporates necessary institutional support; (ii) several on-
going institutional capacity building initiatives, across all sectors of government - supported by
the DFID, EU, UNDP, AfDB, Fund and the Bank - to provide capacity building support; and
(iii) sustained peace will further enable institution building to be enhanced.
VII. RECOMMENDATION
69.   1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
IDA and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfenshon
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Attachments
Washington D.C.
November 20, 2001






Annex A
Page 1 of 1
SIERRA LEONE
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the Credit         4 months
Project Prepared by                      World Bank/Government
ROC Decision Meeting                     September 13, 2001
Appraisal                                October, 2001
Negotiations                             November 19, 2001
Board Presentation                       December, 2001
Effectiveness                            December, 2001
Project Completion                       March, 2003
The Task Team for preparation of the Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit II
comprised: Preeti Arora (Task Team Leader, AFTM5), Gerald Meyerman (Lead Private Sector
Development Specialist, PSASP), Leopoldo Maraboli (Senior Mining Engineer, CMNPO),
Antony Thompson (Senior Financial Sector Specialist, AFTFS), Minneh Kane (Lead Counsel,
LEGLR), Boubacar Sid Barry (Consultant, AFTM5), and Josette Percival (Team Assistant). The
Quality Assurance Team consisted of Emmanuel Akpa (Sector Manager, AFTM5), Farrukh
Iqbal (Lead Economist, WBIEP) and Theresa Jones (Country Program Coordinator, AFCGH).
The Country Director was Mr. Peter Harrold.



Annex B
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE: ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT II
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives                     Strategies and Measures          Actions Already Taken           Actions to be Taken            Timing
National Security  and  Good  Implement the  DDR  program   About  40,000   ex-combatants  Continue implementation of the  Complete  demobilization  by
Governance                     fully.                           disarmed and demobilized so far.  DDR  program; complete the  December   2001;   continue
About    10,000    of   them   demobilization of all remaining  reintegration      activities
reintegrated.                   ex-combatants.                throughout the period.
Develop    a    comprehensive  The Security and Intelligence Act
security policy.                2000 promulgated.
Establish a decentralized system   Restoration of paramount chiefs  Continue   the   restoration  Throughout the period.
of governance - reactivate local  ongoing;      Anti-corruption  project.
government functions, enhance  Commission   established   and
role of the media,              functioning.
Enhance  transparency  in  the  Budget monitoring reports at the  Continue the monthly budget  Monthly reporting.
preparation and implementation  activity level, including payroll  monitoring reports.
of the budget.                  reports produced regularly.
Country  Profile for Financial  Full  documentation  of  the  Before second tranche release.
Accountability (CPFA) initiated.   system   architecture  of  the
Financial Information System
developed in the AGD and
preparation   of  all  user's
manuals for implementing the
system;  Separation  of  the
functions   of  the   system
administrator   and   system
operator.
Monitor improvements in service  Several stakeholders workshops  Conduct and publish the results  December 2001.
delivery through service delivery  conducted to educate the public  of the PETS covering the first
surveys and public expenditure  and  get their involvement in  six months of 2001.
tracking surveys.               budget preparation.
BSDS undertaken and initial
public   expenditure   tracking
survey conducted in 2000.



Annex B
Page 2 of 3
SIERRA LEONE: ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT 11
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives                    Strategies and Measures        Actions Already Taken          Actions to be Taken           Timing
Revival of the Economy        Maintain       macroeconomic  A      sound    macroeconomic  Maintain           satisfactory  Throughout the period.
stability.                     framework has been prepared in  macroeconomic framework.
collaboration with the Bank and
Fund,   within   which   the                                Before second tranche release.
Government will implement its
poverty reduction strategy.
Create  conditions  for  better  Micro credits being provided by  Develop the policy framework  Before second tranche release.
private sector role in the economy  the Government.           for provision of sustainable
through the elimination of the                                micro finance services.
bottleneck  of  financing  and
reducing  government role  as                                 Progress on implementation of  Before second tranche release.
owner and operator of public                                  the PE Strategy (table 4).
enterprises.
Formulate  a  revised  Mining  Study on the role of the mining  Formulate and adopt a revised  Before second tranche release.
policy to promote formal activity  sector initiated in collaboration  Mining  Policy  to  promote
in the sector.                 with the World Bank.           formal sector activity.
Facilitate the return of IDPs and  Government implementing  the  Continue the implementation of  2001-2003.
retumees to agricultural activities  DDR and RRR programs.    the social fund under the CRRP
by providing them farm inputs,                               to  facilitate  resumption  of
extension services, rehabilitating                            agriculture and rehabilitation of
inland   valley  swamps  and                                  infrastructure.
maintenance of feeder roads and
bridges.



Annex B
Page 3 of 3
SIERRA LEONE: ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY CREDIT II
Matrix of Policy Actions
Objectives                    Strategies and Measures        Actions Already Taken          Actions to be Taken           Timing
Public Expenditure Management  Adopt a medium term expenditure  MTEF introduced in the 2001  Extend and refine the MTEF  For the 2002 budget.
framework.                     budget.                        framework to key departments.
Shift  allocations  from  lower                               Produce  budget  monitoring  Monthly.
priority areas to the social and                              reports on budget execution.
economic  sectors,  especially
health, agriculture, education and                            Agree on the budget for 2002  December 2001.
rural infrastructure.                                         prepared within the MTEF.
Access to Social Services     Increase allocations for social  Social    sector    allocations  Increase social sector allocation  2002.
services at the regional level.  maintained despite increases in  by 15 percent in 2002.
military spending in 1999-2001.
Introduce universal free primary  Free primary education for classes  Expand the program to all parts  Throughout the period.
education; Increase the supply of  1-3 introduced in 2000.    of the country.
teaching and learning materials to
schools throughout the country.
Expand  school nutrition  and  School    health    programs  Expand the program to all parts  Throughout the period.
health programs; Expand health  reintroduced in 2000.         of the country.
coverage throughout the country
through the primary health units.
Expand access to clean water and  Government implementing urban  Expand the program to all parts  Throughout the period.
sanitation.                    water  supply  project  and  of the country.
extending  facilities  in  major
provincial towns.



Annex C
Page 1 of 2
Public Enterprise Reform Program
Action Steps                   Completion    Status                                   Revised
Date                                                  Completion
Date
Cabinet acceptance of "Proposed    June 2001  Completed
Strategic Plan for the Divestiture
of Public Enterprises"
Ministry of Finance PE unit    Until NCP       $1,015,000 collected which represents
conclude ongoing privatization  operational    more then 60% of the $1.6 million
transactions and collect                       outstanding according to Cabinet paper,
outstanding payments, continue to              agreement reached with one hotel operator,
monitor financial performance of               other hotel operator referred to Attorney
public enterprises.                            General. More needs to be done to
collect/rescind contracts, collect. National
Petroleum share certificates need to be
located and delivered. Urgent efforts are
needed to complete outstanding
transactions and remaining outstanding
balances. Financial Monitoring continuing
satisfactorily.
H.E. the President to appoint  June 2001      The position was widely advertised and a    November 15,
Chairperson of NCP                            number of applications were received.   2001
Appointment process in final stages.
Chairperson of NCP selects and  June 2001     The position was widely advertised and a    December 15,
NCP appoints Executive Secretary              number of applications were received.   2002
of the Commission                             Appointment awaits appointment of
Chairperson and establishment of NCP.
Members of NCP appointed       June 2001      Appointments completed October, 2001 for
2 year term as follows:
Ex- officio:
Governor BSL, Member of Parliament,
Anti-Corruption Commissioner, Vice-
Chancellor, USL
Civil Society:
Representatives from SL Labor Congress,
Institute of Chartered Accountants, Bar
Association, Bankers Association,
Professional Engineers Association,
Chamber of Commerce, Indigenous
Business Association.
Establish Executive Secretary and   July 2001  Awaiting appointment of Chairman and   Ql,2002
staff, training of NCP                        Commission



Annex C
Page 2 of 2
Public Enterprise Reform Program
Action Steps                    Completion     Status                                  Revised
Date                                                   Completion
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   D ate
NCP develop detailed work       November       This stage of the work was delayed by the    QI ,2002
program, prepare full inventory of   2001      slippage in the establishment of NCP.
assets of non-operating PEs in SL
and abroad as well as non-essential
assets of operating PEs and a plan
for public sale to highest bidder,
conclude ongoing divestitures
NCP in consultation with AG,    October, 2001  Awaiting establishment of NCP           Q1, 2002
draft legislation to Repeal PERDIC
legislation and new legislation on
privatization consistent with the
cabinet policy
NCP design and undertake, using    December    Awaiting establishment of NCP           QI-2,2002
renowned international consultants  2001
on privatization, pre-privatization
studies
Ministry of Tourism to undertake    December   Study not undertaken as yet             Q I -2, 2002
review of its policies regarding the  2001
establishment, lease and operations
of hotels, including considering
converting existing leases to land
leases only, selling the
improvements thereon to hotel
operators
The Ministry of Trade, Industry  December      Study not undertaken as yet             Q1-2, 2002
and State Enterprises review and    2001
propose changes and amendments
to laws and regulations to fully
implement divestiture policy
NCP prepares medium/long term                  Awaiting establishment of NCP           Q2, 2002
plan for implementation of full
policy as well as regulatory
framework for public utilities.
NCP takes control as prudent                   The implementation of this important aspect  Before second
shareholder of all PEs and appoints            of the policy is urgent to exercise control    tranche release
independent Boards of Directors in             over the PEs and stop further deterioration
accordance with policy.                        of assets.
NCP takes steps to recruit and                                                         Before second
enter into management contracts,                                                      tranche release
containing performance based
compensation provisions, with
qualified firms or individuals,
domestic or international for the
operation and management of the
Sierra Leone Ports Authority;
Sierra Leone Airport Authority; the
National Power Authority; Sierra
Leone State Lottery.



Annex D
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Freetown, Sierra Leone
November 15, 2001
Mr. James Wolfenshon
President
The World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr.Wolfensohn,
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writing to request that you approve a US$50.0 million loan for a second
Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC II) to support the
implementation of key activities and programmes defined in the transitional phase of
the Government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP).
Progress on the Disannament, Demobilisation and Reintegration (DDR)
Programme
2.    Firstly, I am pleased to inform you that on the basis of progress made so far,
the disarmament process, which resumed in May 2001, remains broadly on track. As
of November 10, 2001, a total number of 27,905 ex-combatants have been
demobilised in all districts, including 9,926 Revolutionary United Front (RUTF)
fighters and 17,624 Civil Defence Forces (CDF).
3.    Consistent with this view, at the recently concluded tripartite meeting between
the Government, the RUF and UNAMSIL, held on November 8, 2001, the parties
expressed satisfaction at the progress made in the disarmament process and at the
completion of UNAMISL's deployment throughout the country. It was also
reaffirmed that leaders of the warring factions tak-e immediate action so that the
disarmament process is fully concluded on or before the agreed date of November 30,
2001. The parties urged the Government to expedite the deployment of the police in
all areas where disarmament has been completed.
The Resettlement Strategy
4.    As mentioned above, the reactivation of the disarmament process throughout
the country has rekindled the opportunity for peace and reconciliation in Sierra Leone.



However, to consolidate peace and reconciliation, urgent action is required to
reintegrate disarmed  and demobilised  ex-combatants back  into society.   As
disarmament proceeds, the Government, in collaboration with local and international
partners, has endeavoured to extend humanitarian assistance to newly accessible parts
of the country. It has also restarted reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts in support
of war-affected populations while restoring civil authority in these areas.
5.    A core-part of this transitional process also involves the planning and
implementation of programmes to support the resettlement and reintegration of
displaced civilian population back into their communities and the consolidation of
security for lives and properties throughout the country. No doubt, the provision of
support to rehabilitate the livelihood and guarantee the security of returnees will
enhance the opportunity for reconciliation and the shift to longer-term development.
Economic Performance in 2001
6.    The progress made in disarming and demobilising ex-combatants has
contributed significantly to improvements in economic performance during the year.
The pace of economic activity continues to expand.  The output of locally
manufactured goods has risen substantially for many products during the year.
Officially recorded diamond production has also risen sharply. As at October 2001,
the total value of diamond exports was estimated at about US$21.7 million. It is
estimated that total diamond exports for 2001 will exceed the value for 2000 by over
150 percent. The harvest of second crops and rice is also expected to increase
substantially during 2001 following the timely delivery of critical farm inputs to
resettled farming communities.
7.    Domestic revenue collection surged during the first three quarters of 2001 on
account of the expansion in productive activities owing to strengthened business and
consumer confidence. Improved tax administration pursued by the key revenue
departments, including the implementation of the revised administrative guidelines for
duty free concessions, also contributed to the rise in domestic revenues. For 2001,
domestic revenue is projected to exceed its programme target by about 1.5% of GDP.
8.    Despite the impressive revenue performance, the government has been
resorting to bank financing to meet urgent expenditure needs during the year. This is
due to the significant shortfall in budgeted donor inflows. The efforts to clear arrears
of salaries, especially to teachers, the increases in the civil service payroll following
the return of staff hitherto behind rebel lines and the funding of the salaries of staff of
newly established Commissions, including the Commission for the Consolidation of
Peace, the Anti Corruption Commission and the Office of the Ombudsman, resulted in
a significant increase in the wage bill. As a result, bank financing of the budget
deficit is projected to rise to 3.4% compared to a programme target of 1.3% of GDP in
2001. However, due to the over-performance of domestic revenues, the primary fiscal
deficit is projected to decline to 5.0% from a programme target of 6. 1%.
9.    Developments in the foreign exchange market continue to dictate the trend in
domestic prices. As indicated above, the expansion in economic activities increased
the import requirements of manufacturing for inputs and machinery and the demand
for petroleum products. However, the shortfall in donor inflows coupled with the
2



sluggish performance of the agricultural export sector resulted in excess demand for
foreign currency. Hence, the rate of exchange of the Leone to the United States dollar
depreciated by about 22 percent in October 2001. As a consequence, the year-on-year
inflation rose to 6.1 percent as at September 2001, compared to 2.3 percent in the
same period of 2000.
10.   Yields on government securities fell considerably during the period. The
average yield on treasury bills declined from 20.5 percent in December 2000 to 14.2
percent in September 2001. The treasury bearer bond rate also decreased from 22.5
percent in December 2000 to 20.0 percent in September 2001. Real rates on savings
deposits were negative.
11.   The external debt situation remains largely unchanged. Total external debt,
including the cancellation of US$30 million and the rescheduling of US$120 million
of the country's total external debt stock at the recently concluded Paris Club of
Creditors under the Naples terms, is still estimated at US$1.2 billion. This high level
of indebtedness, coupled with the requirements to fund reconstruction, rehabilitation
and poverty-focused activities, indicate that debt relief under the Enhanced HIPC
Initiative may not be sufficient for poverty reduction. In this regard, Govemment will
seek additional debt relief in excess of the enhanced IPC Initiative Framework
consistent with the proposal of the G7 meeting in Cologne, Germany.
12.   The central theme of the Budget for 2002 will be to position Sierra Leone for a
new era of growth. The Budget is aimed at boosting business and providing benefits
for everyone. By making the necessary changes to our economy, we hope that all
Sierra Leoneans could stay united and succeed together. In this regard, expenditure
priorities for 2002 will continue to target the expansion of the critical poverty
activities funded in the 2001 budget. These include the universal free primary
education, the school bus service, the school health programme, the matemal and
child health care programmes, support to vulnerable child victims of war, agricultural
development and the rehabilitation and construction of schools, clinics, hospital and
remand homes in rural communities.
The Government's Poverty Reduction Programme -The Transitional Phase
13.   The Government's poverty reduction strategy is being implemented in two
phases - a transitional and a medium-term phase. The transitional phase (2001-2002)
will focus on improving the living standards of the most vulnerable groups including
returnees, internally displaced persons (IDPs) and other war victims as well as address
urgent rehabilitation and reconstruction requirements. Emphasis would be placed on
the following (a) restoration of security for life and property including the protection
of human rights: (b) re-launching the economy; and (c) the provision of basic social
services to the most vulnerable groups as well as enhancing access to productive
assets. The medium term phase (2003-2005) will address longer-term development
problems when security and accessibility would have improved considerably
throughout the country.
National Security and Good Govemance
3



14.   The resolution of the conflict remains an important first step in any
programme designed to address the povertv needs of the population. In this regard,
the Government remains committed to the principal provisions of the Lome Peace
Agreement and subsequent recent agreements signed in Abuja and Freetown. The
Lome Peace Accord represents a broad framework for cessation of hostilities and
establishment of sustainable peace. The main goal is to re-establish security in all
parts of the country so that humanitarian assistance to the displaced population and
victims of war can be delivered.
15.   In this connection, in tandem  with the implementation of the DDR
programme, the Government has also developed a comprehensive security policy that
provides a clear framework for the operations of the sector. A Security and
Intelligence Act 2000 has been passed by Parliament. The Act establishes a National
Security Council as the highest security policy-mak-ing body in the country and
provides a legal framework for the operations of the entire security sector.
16.   In the restructuring process, accountability and civilian control of the army are
important elements and a number of developments have occurred in this area. The
Defense Headquarters has undergone some structural changes to reflect the new
policies in civil-military relations for the efficient functioning of the military sector
Civilians now exercise oversight in the areas of finance, general administration and
development planning. The establishment of an Armed Forces Review Committee,
comprising representatives of the armed forces and civil society, which will undertake
periodic reviews of incentives, is under consideration.
17.   The Police Force is also being restructured and is now better equipped to
respond to the safety needs of the population than it was a few years ago. There has
also been a significant change in public perception of the police. Its image as a corrupt
institution is gradually disappearing. In order to further enhance its image, a
disciplinary and investigations office has been set up at Police Headquarters to handle
public complaints about police conduct.
18.   A priority for good governance is to strengthen institutional capacity in
support of the rule of law and economic management, and simultaneously ensure that
transparency and accountability are an integral part of the culture in Sierra Leone. The
Good Governance programme will put in place a more decentralized, transparent and
proactive system of governance with built-in checks and balances to minimize
corruption in government and public administration with civil society playing a key
role in the planning and monitoring of policies and budgetary oversight. In this
regard, emphasis Will be placed on effective participation of the populace in
governance issues. The thrust will be on grassroots participatory democracy including
the conduct of parliamentary and presidential elections in May 2002, decentralisation
of functions and authority, respect for human rights and checking abuse of power.
19.   The Government is strengthening its institutional capacity to monitor the use
of donor flows. This is particularly important in the context of the use of HIPC
resources for poverty reduction programs and activities.  The Government, in
collaboration with the UNDP, is establishing a comprehensive database on aid flows
within the Integrated Approach for Aid Coordination (IAAC) framework. Towards
this end, a Donor Assistance Database (DAD) software has been developed. This will
4



enable the Government to track and analyze international assistance by providing up
to date information collected from donors and recipients and made widely accessible
via the internet.
20.   While improving the capacity and efficiency of the public sector to delivery
services, the Government will popularise the strategic planning and action process
(SPP) to maximize the participation of civil society in the formulation of development
priorities and strategies, public expenditure reviews, tracking of budgetary
expenditures and monitoring of service delivery.
21.   The Government has made positive strides to use effective fiscal and
expenditure control and sound financial management systems to minimize corruption
by sharpening accountability and reducing the scope for non-transparent budgetary
transactions. A financial information system has been installed in the Accountant
General's Department (AGD), with the assistance of the European Union. This
system, which is computerized, comprises a main accounting system, an expenditure
commitment control system, a payroll system, a pension system and a stores
accounting and control system.  The expenditure commitment control system is
interfaced with the accounting system for commitment control of the appropriated
budget before the issue of orders for goods and services. A system has also been
designed to control and account for salary advances. This system interfaces with the
payroll system. Reconciliation of the main operating bank accounts is done on a
regular basis. The system enables the authorities to closely monitor and report
monthly on budget execution.
Re-Launching the Economy
22.    The second priority is to re-launch the economy. In this connection,
Government recognizes that the maintenance of macroeconomic stabilitv is a pre-
requisite for the attainment of sustainable and higher economic growth, essential for
reducing poverty. The Government's near- and medium-term macro-econonic
strategy would seek to sustain the gains already achieved in reducing macroecononic
imbalances in the economy by continuing to implement sound fiscal and monetary
policies, while ensuring the prudent management of financial resources.
23.   An important element of fiscal policy in the medium term is the restructuring
of import taxes and accompanying changes in excise duties. As part of Govermnent's
continuing indirect tax rationalization programme, the tariff structure is being
harmonized with those in the sub-region to reduce cross border smuggling and foster
official trade. To this end, and in line with commnitments under the ECOWAS, the
Government will continue with the rationalization and reduction in external tariffs to a
range of 0-25 percent, and an average external tariff of about 15 percent by 2003.
These measures are expected to enhance tax compliance, improve the business
environment and generate higher revenues.
24.   The principal objective of monetary policy in the medium-term is to maintain
single-digit inflation rates. To this end, broad money will be slowed in line with the
inflation objective. As domestic revenues expand, a substantial increase in credit to
the private sector will be ensured to support economic recovery by reducing bank
credit to the public sector.
5



25.   Government will also continue to facilitate access to credit to the poor in the
rural and informal sectors through micro-credit financing schemes. It is hoped that,
with the more stable economic and security environment, commercial banks will be
able to increase their branch network throughout the country. The Government plans
to use micro finance as a key instrument to overcome the financing bottleneck faced
by low-income households. Towards this end, the Govemment will develop a
comprehensive micro finance policy framework with technical assistance from
intemational institutions.
26.    The development of the private sector is an important part of the strategy to
stimulate recovery and grouth. During the transition period, efforts will be geared to
promoting micro-enterprise development in order to create employment and raise
incomes in the formal and informal sectors. In this context, government will facilitate
the provision of basic management skills for micro-ent&eprises.
27.   A National Commission for Privatisation (NCP), a Presidential Commrission
with an executive secretariat, has been established to implement the Public Enterprise
(PE) divestiture programme. In line with best practice, the Commission will act as the
prudent "shareholder" of all public enterprises in the government portfolio with a
mandate to manage enterprises through its delegates under its sole supervision and
control. In essence, the Commission will act as the sole and exclusive representative
for and on behalf of government in all state enterprises, and hence replacing
representatives of ministries on the boards of PEs. Funds generated from the proceeds
of the divestiture of state enterprises, including the gains from ending current
subsidies to prop up non-performing enterprises, will be redirected to finance socio-
economic development and the extension of services to the poor, particularly in the
slums and deprived rural areas.
28.   Economic Sectors: As wvell as improving the macroeconomic framework,
Government will implement measures in key economic sectors to ensure sustainable
growth in output in agriculture, mining and the infrastructure sectors. In agriculture,
Government's priority is to improve the livelihood of the farming and fishing
population of retumees and IDPs with the aim of restoring food security especially in
the rural areas. In the mining sector, Govemment will endeavour to enforce mnining
policies (currently under review) and organize miners into co-operatives. The aim is
to improve the livelihood of the returning mining population and encourage activities
in this sector to be more open and transparent. The Bank has initiated a study in
collaboration with key stakeholders in Sierra Leone on the role of the mining sector in
the post war recovery efforts. A key outcome of the study will be a revised mining
vision, policy and strategy, which will serve as a fundamental basis to identify and
formulate required improvements of the legislative, regulatory and fiscal framework,
to be subsequently prepared and adopted by the Govemment as a result of the study.
In this context, the study will provide the identification of challenges, determination
of objectives, and definition of required strategies concerning the way forward for
fiscal aspects, legal and regulatory matters, institutional frameworks, options for
improving small-scale mining, enhancement of trading and export activities,
integration of mining into the national economy, and adoption of sound environmental
and social approaches and practices.
6



29.    Government's priority in the infrastructure sector is to improve land, coastal
and river transportation in order to increase access of the rural farming population and
the urban poor to market centres as well as social and economic services. The key
focus will be to promote community rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads
and bridges.   The government will also continue to improve the power sector
infrastructure, including the completion of key activities to rehabilitate the power
infrastructure for the Western area.
Social Programmes
30.   The measures described above are intended to create a favourable environment
for economic growth and should lead to an increase in employment and improvement
in the living standards of the population. To improve basic social indicators and help
reduce poverty, these measures will be supplemented by specific actions in education,
health, access to safe drinking water, housing and better sanitation, the provision of
social safety nets and activities to promote gender equality.
31.   In the education sector, Government's priority is to increase school enrollment
and retention rates as well as improve the quality of basic education. In the health and
sanitation sector, Government will seek to reduce maternal and infant mortality rates,
control and prevent the spread of malaria and facilitate improvements in general
sanitation in both rural and urban areas. To achieve this, Govemment will increase
budgetary expenditures to basic health centres, reconstruct and rehabilitate PHUs, and
hire and train additional medical staff to work in the rural areas.
32.   To minimise the spread and rise in STDS/HIV/AIDS cases, Govemment will
intensify information and education campaigns to increase public awareness of the
incidence of STDs/HIV/AIDS. It will also promote the use of AIDS preventive
measures through distributing condoms and training counsellors on home-based care
for people living with AIDS. The focus will be on youths and women of reproductive
age.
33.    Government's housing policy is to facilitate opportunities for retumees and
IDPs to access affordable housing and community facilities. Government will build
local capacity to produce and deliver low cost building materials, as well as increase
its stock of low-cost shelter units and provide the enabling environment for enhanced
private sector participation in the supply of affordable housing units.
34.   Social Safety Nets and the Social Security Scheme: In order to address the
special circumstances of needy persons, a social safety net scheme will be introduced
to benefit vulnerable groups, the old, disabled and needy. The scheme is expected to
promote basic shelter and support, and access to basic health care services for these
persons. The Government will also establish a National Social Security (Social
Security and Insurance) Scheme to strengthen existing state and traditional sources of
support for retirees in both the public and private sectors. The scheme, expected to
commence in 2002, was costed by an actuarial study, which has also quantified the
cost of validating retrospective service of public servants. The scheme would provide
pensions on retirement, invalidity and death benefits to all private and public sector
workers. The Social Security Act 2001 provides for a joint contribution rate of 15%
7



(10% for the employer and 5% for the employee) of the insurable earnings of the
members of the scheme.
35.   Promoting Gender Equality: The Government has established special national
machinery for gender- and children-related activities including the creation of a
Ministry for Gender and Children's Affairs. A national gender-in-development policy
has also been formulated. The formulation of this policy demonstrates the
commitment of Govemment to the principles of social justice and equality.
Monitoring Mechanisms
36.   The Government has developed a participatory outcome monitoring system to
monitor and evaluate the progress of implementation and impact of its anti-poverty
strategy. The monitoring process will assess improvements in service delivery, using
quantitative and qualitative indicators defined in consultation with civil society. It will
also assess the efficient and effective utilization of public resources allocated to both
urban and rural communities through the Medium-term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) and the newly established Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS)
processes.
37.   As a measure of its commitment to track and monitor the efficient and
effective utilization of public expenditures, Government, recently conducted an
Expenditure Tracking Survey for expenditures during the first half-year of 2001. The
survey was designed to measure public expenditures by budgetary allocations to
determine the actual public spending that is used for its intended purpose, especially
in the rural areas. The results of the survey revealed significant gaps in some key
ministries in the disbursement of public resources to rural areas. It also shows some
variances between budgetary allocations and actual expenditures in many departments
due partly to the stringent tendering procedures for procurement as well as the
emphasis on transparency. The survey also confirmed that slow disbursement or non-
disbursement of donor funds for many development projects in the rural areas greatly
affected implementation of these projects.
38.   In order to improve on service delivery in the rural areas, the budget process
since 2001 was designed in the context of the MTEF process to ensure greater
beneficiary involvement in the delivery of services and more emphasis on results and
outcomes. The Government has also established mechanisms such as periodic
workshops and meetings for the frank exchange of views between Ministries,
Departments and Agencies (MDAs) on budget formulation, implementation,
monitoring and reviews.
39.   In tandem with these arrangements, the Govemment mandated the Medium-
term Expenditure Framework/Technical Committee (MTEFiTC), comprising
representatives from government, the university and civil society groups, to sensitize
beneficiaries and civil society in budgetary oversight. The sensitization exercise for
the 2001 budget was done in all safe communities and regions throughout the country.
Furthermore, for the first time in the history of Sierra Leone, discussions for the 2002
budget with line ministries involved community leaders, including paramount chiefs
8



and members of parliament. To enhance the participatory process, the Government
will facilitate the formation of community budgetary oversight commnittees, as well as
ensure the periodic publication of information on budgetary provisions and service
delivery at the local level.
Poverty Reduction Strategv Paper (PRSP)
40.   The full PRSP preparation exercise will take place from December 2001 to
June 2003. It will approach poverty reduction problems in a multidisciplinary,
integrated and coherent approach with the participation of all actors and partners
involved in poverty reduction efforts such as NGOs, civil society organizations,
cooperative associations, beneficiary groups and other stakeholders. It will be
prepared through a participatory and decentralized approach involving target groups
and institutions, government organizations, NGOs, key development partners and
civil society.
Conclusion
41.   As already indicated above, the conclusion of the DDR programme will
facilitate the return of displaced persons to their communities. This development is
expected to give a significant impetus to economic activities and accelerate
rehabilitation and reconstruction programmes.
42.   Finally, I would like to acknowledge, on behalf of Government, our deep
appreciation for the assistance and support we continue to receive from the Bank.
Your approval of our request to support the resettlement and reintegration of IDPs,
refugees and ex-combatants together with their dependants back into their
communities will, no doubt, consolidate and strengthen our reconciliation and peace
building efforts while enhancing our long-term development aspirations.
Please accept, Mr. President, the assurances of our highest consideration.
y
MINISTER 01 F FINANCE
9



Annex E
Page 1 of 2
Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit II
Project Description Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and         Assumptions/Risks
Evaluation
Development Objectives
Peace consolidated,
economy revived and     1. Ex-combatants re-inserted   Monitoring reports  Technical and
service delivery       into civilian life,                                financial assistance
enhanced throughout the                                                   continues
country
2. Reduction in the number    Media reports       Security re-
of factional military violent                     established
clashes.
3. Reduction in crimes      Media reports         Technical assistance
reported in major cities.                         continues
4. Manufacturing output     Economic Bulletins    Macro stability,
grows.                                            security maintained
5. Official diamond exports    Economic Bulletins  Technical assistance
pick up.                                          and cooperation of
the World Diamond
6. Accurate and timely      Monthly reports       market.
reporting of public finances.
7. Macroeconomic program    Document evaluation
on track.
Outputs
Improved governance    1. Democratic parliamentary   Physical evidence    Technical and
and lower corruption in   and presidential elections.
the public sector                                                         financial
2. Financial Information    Document evaluation    assistance.
system strengthened through
proper documentation and                          Technical
separation of system                              assistance
administrator and operator.                       continues.
3. Well functioning Anti-   User benefit surveys
Corruption Commission.
Economic activity      1. Availability of basic     User surveys and
revives                commodities like rice and    physical evidence
petroleum.
2. Agriculture output.      Government statistics
3. Availability of micro credit  User surveys and Bank
services.                   of Sierra Leone reports
4. Mining sector exports.   Government statistics



Annex E
Page 2 of 2
Sierra Leone: Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
Project Description Summary
Narrative              Key Performance              Monitoring and    Assumptions/Ri
Summary                Indicators                   Evaluation            sks
Outputs (contd.)
Public resource        1. Improvement in revenue     Document evaluation
management             mobilization by at least I
strengthened           percent of GDP over the 2000
level.
2. Public expenditure control   Budget monitoring
at the commitment level.     reports
3. No new accumulation of    Document evaluation
arrears.
4. Public resources reach    PETS survey reports   Countrywide
administration units in all                       security
provinces.
Business environment    1. Simplified procedures for    Document evaluation
improved and private    registration of businesses.
sector revitalized
2. Updated strategy for the  Document evaluation
remaining public enterprises in
the Government's portfolio
being implemented.                                Technical assistance
from the EU
3. Financial performance of    Quarterly monitoring
public enterprises monitored.   reports prepared by
the PEs
4. Mining sector policy and  Document evaluation  Technical assistance
strategy adopted.                                 from the World
Bank
5. Micro finance policy      Document evaluation   Technical assistance
framework established.
Basic services launched   1. Enrollment rates in primary   User benefit surveys   Political
classes.                                          commitment at the
highest level
2. Number of primary health    User benefit survey
care centers in full operation.
3. Pass rate for national basic   Examination results
certificate examination.
4. Child immunization rate.    Document evaluation
and user surveys
5. Access to safe water.     User benefit survey



Annex F
Sierra Leone Social Indicators
Latest single year            Same regionlincome group
Sub-
Saharan         Low-
1970-75     198045       1993-99             Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population. mid-year (millions)             2.9          3.6          4.9             642.8       2,417.1
Growth rate (% annual average for period)       2.0          2.0          2.4               2.6          1.9
Urban population (% of population)               21.4         26.9         35.9              33.8         31.4
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           6.5          6.5          5.9               5.3          3.7
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                           ..           ..           .
Urban headcount index                            ..           ..
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (USS)                              240         330          130               490           420
Consumer price index (1995=100)                     0            1         257               131           138
Food price index (1995=100)
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)      6.0
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)    53.0           ..
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Heath (% of GOP)                                 ..           ..         0.9                1.7          1.2
Education (% of GNI)                            3.3          1.9                           4.1           3.3
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)           ..           ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                            ..          47
Male                                                       55
Female                                                     39
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
Total                                            ..           ..          28                55            76
Urban                                          ..          ..           23                82            88
Rural                                          ..          ..           31                41            70
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..          66           68                57            64
DPT                                              ..          21           56                59            70
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)               28            ..
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           35           36           37                47            59
Male                                          34           35           36                46            58
Female                                        37           38           39                48            60
Mortality
Infant (per 1,000live births)                  192          184          168                92            77
Under 5 (per 1.000 live births)                363          336          283               161           116
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1.000 population)                  552          540          544               499           288
Female (per 1,000 population)                534          527          483               453           258
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)               ..           ..
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)       53           25
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment ratios exceeding 100 indicate discrepancies
between the estimates of school-age population and reported enrollment data. Latest year for access to improved water
source data is 2000.
2001 World Development Indicators CD-ROM, World Bank



Annex G
Page 1 of 2
Sierra Leone at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                s5ena  Sahalan        Low-
Leone     Africa  Income      Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-year (mUItbns)                        5.0      659      2.459                Life expectancy
GNIpercapita(AOas memWi odUS5)                       130       480       420
GNI (Atas metod US$ bolins)                          0.63      313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        2.2       2.6       1.9                    / ;
Labor force (%)                                       2.5       2.6       2.4    GNI                            pGross
per    I             7      Ipnimary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallabie, 199440)                             capita                       enroliment
Poverty (% of population below natlonal poewty line)
Urban population (% of Ibtal population)              35        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      37         47       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000t lIve births)                       92        77
Child malnutrition (% of ch/lden unir5)                      .              .         Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% Orpopulaion)    34         55       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                            38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populaton)            78                            Slerra Leone
Male                                                          85       102            -     Low-income group
Female                                                .        71       86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios
GDP (USS bllions)                            1.2    0.90       0.67      0.64
Gross domnestic investment/GDP              17.7      9.4       0.3       8.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and servicestGDP           23.7    24.0       14.2      17.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     .      8.3      -5.7      -8.1
Gross national savings/GOP                           -2.3      -2.5      -1.8
Current account balance/GDP                -14.4   -100        -8.0      18.1     Domestic       /e\
Interest payments/GDP                        0.6      0.4       2.7       2.9         eti       Investment
Total debt/GOP                              40.2    128.3     178.2    185.5      svngs
Total debt service/exports                  28 2     12.2      58.7      68.2
Present value of debtGDP                               .      124.6    124.9
Present value of debt/exports                                 878.6    806.4
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.2    -4.5    -8.1         3.8       5.4               Si eone
GDP per capita                     -0.9    -6.7    -9.9         2.8       3.3                  Low-Incone group
Expots of goods and services        0.2   -10.8      -6.6      21.5      14. 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growttl of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                         50
Agriculure                                  32.6     47.0      43.6      47.3
Industry                                    20.7    20.4       27.3      29.7                         _
Manufacturing                              5.0      3.7        4.3      4.7
Services                                    46.6    32.6       29.1      23.0     soo          \
Private consumption                         89.4     81.9      94.3      94.9    .10000
General govemment consumption                7.7      9.9      11.4      14.3                     GDI       t;  GDP
Imports of goods and services               38.5    25.1       20.2      34.5
1 980-90  1990-00    1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports 1%)
(avewage annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.1    -C 1        -5.7      31     lJ
Industry                                     1.7    -6.2      -14.0      -9.3  s0
Uanufacturing                   5                   5.0
Services                                    -2.7   -11.2       -6.9       1.0                                  ag =.
PnWate consumption                           0.1     -2.4      -6.8       0.9
General government consumption               0.0     -1.8      34.6      51.6   -100
Gross domestic investment                   -1.1    -19.9     -94.7   1,659.6                   Exports   O-*lmpofts
Imports of goods and services               -3.5    -4.5       -5.0      54.4
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicalors in the country (in bold) compared w ith its income-group average ff data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
Sierra Leone
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflabtion I%)
Dom"stic pilces                                                                     4
I% chanige)
Cohnsumer)pucs                               20.0   111.0        34.1     -09       3
Implicit GDP deflator                         18.4    83.4       25.0       6.1    20
Govornment ilniance
(% ot GDP, ncludes cuwTnt grants)
Current revenue                                  -      9.2      10.6      17.5    -10      ff   91   07    e    a s       0
Current budget balance                                -7.0       -9.0     -5.2             -G OP denator   t-CP
Overali surplus/delicit                              -10.5      -11.4    -11.2
TRADE
1980    1990       1999      2000      Export an  mport lves (US mill.)
(USS mllions)
Total exports (fob)                           214      155        el       75      250
Rutib                                                 7a          1         .     0
Diamonds                                               13         1        10
Manufactures                                   *.
Total imports (ci)                            37       155        78       161      100
Food                                          -.      37         28        6
Fue and eteigy                                         38        21        29      so
Capital goods                                 -.      33          5        18       0 A     9    o 9              9
94   9f  95  97  9119         900
Export price index (19951100)                   ..      91        87        83
Import price index (1995.100)                           95        91        93                  a Exports     U Imports
Tenms of trade (1995-100)                       ..      95        96        89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990                 0        Current accou19  2alance to GDP 
(USS millions)
Expois of goods and services                  234      225        92       11D       0
Imports of goods and services                 398      221        132      212
Resource balance                             -6                   4         .
Net income                                    -30    -124         -20      -20
Net current transfers                          26       30         is        7      lo
Current account balance                      -168      -90        -42     -115    -15
Financing items (net)                         136       83        22       139
Changes in net reserves                        32        7        20       -25    -20
Memo:
Reserves Including gold fUSS  illions)         31        5        33        44
Conversion rate (DEC. kADC'/S$)                1.0    151.4   1,804.2   2,092.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(USS nilions)                                                                      Composition o 2000 debt (USS miltl 
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          469    1,151      1.263     t.319
IBRD                                         13       11         0         0                  G: 174
IDA                                          29       81       299       354                                     5
Total debt sevice                              66       21         52       69
IBRD                                          I        0          1        0
IDA                                           0        0         6         4
Compositiork of net resource flows
Oflficial grants                             24       30        65                   E:397
Official ereditors                           38       13        44        85                    _ 
Private creditors                            12        4          0        -2 
Foreign direct investment                   -19       32          1        .
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         -                         D: 239
World Bank program                                                                |
Commitments                                   3        0         0        40      A lIRC                      E - -  latraI
Disbur;ements                                 4        0        40        70      8 - IDA    GOther ulIlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0          4        2      C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flowa                                     4        0        36        6S   I
Interest payments                             1        0          3        2
Net transters                                 3        0        33        66
Development Economics                                                                                                10110/01



Annex H
Status of Bank Group Operations in Sierra Leone
Cloed    2
Projets   2t
ISROIIDA'
Total Disbursed (Active)                           114X30
of vhich has been repaid                     0.0e
Total Disbumsed (Closed)                           330,10
of wtdch has been repaid                     4210
Total Disburied (Actre  C loted)                   444.35
of which has been repaid                     42.06
Total Undisbursed (Active)                         24.76
Total Undisbursod (Cloned)                         0.0W
Total Undisbursed (Active . Closed)                24.7S
Active Prolects                                                                                                                                   smen. .a
Last PSR                                                                               EsJChd n,4Ad,d
Supervision Rfting                           OrIgInal Amount in USS Mitlions                 c
Project 10    Project Name                         Development lMftmentation   Fisal Year         IBRO      IOA       GtRANT       cancel. od        one1  Fun5.Vd
ORq&ctven      Progress
P040649       Community Reinlng and Retb Credil    S                   S            2000                    25                                22     -36
P002422       Health Sector Project               S                    S            1996                    20                               21       *2      .5
P002427       Public Seslor Management Project    U                    U            1993                     10                               c       0 
P002411       PowerSector RehabititalionProjecl   S                    5            1992                    21                               00       00     0f
P070201       Publio Sector Management Suppolt II    #                 #            2001                    3.5                               33
P002420       Tnnspor SectoProject                S                    S            156                     35                               12 5     tb      39
P002428       Urban Waler Supply Proiec           5                    5            1955                     36 25                                     7
Total                                                                                        150.5                             24 t    24 3    .04
inSIst actual 45n001Itn to dar asnnIeP W*aI






Jeff Lecksell
Jeff Lecksell
sle27219 (Converted)-1
11/21/2001 1:41 pm



