Report No. PID10680
Project Name                     Sierra Leone-Economic Rehabilitation and ... @
Recovery Credit II
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Macro/Non-Trade
Project ID                       SLPE74642
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Secretariat Building, George Street,
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Contact Person: Dr. Peter Kuyembeh,
Minister of Finance
Tel: 232-22-222211
Fax: 232-22-228472
Email:minfin@sierratel.sl
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                September 24, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 30, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 13, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
After some interruptions, the DDR process has resumed and about 14,000
combatants have disarmed between May and August 2001. UNAMSIL has been
deployed in the diamond-producing areas in the east of the country and
disarmament and demobilization of ex-combatants has already begun in the
region. It is expected that disarmament of the remaining combatants will
be completed by end 2001.    These recent developments and the rapid
restart of the DDR program hold out good hope for consolidating peace and
reviving the economy. These developments also put a significant financial
strain on the Government and it is seeking donor support to continue to
implement its programs for economic and social recovery. The Government
has prepared an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) based on
extensive dialogue and consultations with civil society groups, community
leaders, professional groups and non-government organizations. In
collaboration with the Bank and the Fund, the Government has also prepared
a three year economic program to be supported under the Fund's poverty
reduction and growth facility (PRGF).
2. Objectives
The proposed Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit II (ERRC II) is a
quick - disbursing credit in the amount of US$30 million that will support
the transitional phase of the Government's interim poverty reduction
strategy in a selective manner. It pursues further the reforms initiated
under the ERRC. It will provide critical balance of payments and
budgetary support to finance part of the foreign exchange and budgetary
costs associated with establishing peace and good governance; relaunching
the economy; and restoring basic public services. The proceeds will allow



the import of essential commodities, including food products, petroleum
products, and raw materials and intermediate goods required for
relaunching the economy. The local currency funds thus generated will
enable the Government to provide basic services, including the
rehabilitation of necessary social and economic infrastructure in those
parts of the country that have become accessible following the positive
developments on the peace and security fronts. It will complement similar
support provided by DFID, the EU and the IMF.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
By supporting the Government's program aimed at improving governance,
restarting the provision of key social and economic services and resuming
macroeconomic and structural reforms, the Credit will help lay the
foundations for the return of an appropriate environment for achieving the
Government's broad objectives of stable growth and poverty reduction. In
the absence of the ERRC II and other foreign financing, heavy reliance on
central bank financing to meet the immediate needs of the poverty
reduction program would result in further depreciation of the Leone and an
increase in inflationary pressures. This is all the more so as exports
would be expected to recover only slowly. As well, the proposed operation
will help increase Sierra Leone's creditworthiness and ensure continued
flow of development resources; and more importantly, would make possible
the purchases of critical imports necessary to political stability and
economic recovery.
4. Description
The credit is expected to be disbursed in two tranches over a period of
12-15 months. The policy package draws on the work done during the
implementation of ERRC as well as the preparation of the I-PRSP. The
Government's reform program under ERRC II will improve public service
delivery through the following measures: (i) ensuring good governance;
(ii) reviving growth by ensuring macroeconomic stability, efficient and
equitable use of public resources, and facilitating private sector
development; and (iii) improved access to and quality of basic social
services.Good governance. Good governance is essential for effective
public service delivery. Government has already initiated several reforms
aimed at fighting corruption, including the establishment of the
Anti-corruption Commission; introduction of new financial management
systems; and formalization of the SPP process. ERRC II will support
further reforms in financial management, and monitoring and evaluation.
Reviving Growth. ERRC II will continue to support the Government's
institutional and policy reform agenda in the areas of macroeconomic
stabilization and the creation of conditions to allow a greater role of
the private sector in jumpstarting the economy. Reforms aimed at
macroeconomic stabilization will focus on maintaining fiscal discipline.
Public Expenditure Management. Efforts to improve public expenditure
management under the programs supported by the Bank and the Fund have
achieved some success despite the disruptions caused by the protracted
civil war. Macroeconomic budgetary management and aggregate expenditure
control have been largely achieved. The Government has also striven to
keep budgetary allocations in line with its stated priorities for
providing basic social services. However, weaknesses remain at the level
of actual expenditures and service delivery. The Government's
institutional reform program supported by the proposed credit focuses on
strengthening the medium term budget framework. Keen to move forward with
- 2-



budgetary reforms, the Cabinet approved the implementation of the MTEF
from the 2001 financial year. A detailed Budget Call Circular was issued
to all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in July 2001 providing
indicative ceilings for the MDAs for the three year period. In line with
the priorities identified in the I-PRSP, the MDAs are required to present
with their Budget Proposals, the objectives of the programs maintained and
the activities to be undertaken in order to achieve defined objectives.
In addition, MDAs are also required to present the expected output to be
derived from those activities consistent with the monitoring indicators
defined in the I-PRSP. Access to social services. Access to social
services, especially primary education, healthcare, and clean water and
sanitation have a direct impact on the quality of life of the poor,
especially in a post-conflict environment when most infrastructure has
been damaged. The policy content of the proposed credit in this regard is
focused on the implementation of the Government's Reconstruction,
Rehabilitation and Reintegration (RRR) program and adequate allocation of
resources for basic social services throughout the country. In order to
improve service delivery in the rural areas, the budget process
(preparation and monitoring) in 2001 has been designed to ensure greater
beneficiary involvement in the delivery of services and more emphasis on
results and outcomes. The Government has also introduced a new budget and
accounting code that shows the allocation of public resources by activity
and region. This new coding system will facilitate the tracking of
resources to activities in rural areas. The MTEF/TC has conducted
sensitization workshops for civil society on budgetary oversight in all
safe areas in the country. The Government will periodically publish
information on budgetary provisions and service delivery at the local
level.
5. Financing
Total                   ( US$m)
BORROWER 0 IDA           US$30 million
Total Project Cost
6. Implementation
The Government's reform effort, supported by the proposed ERRC, will be
managed under the overall supervision of a Steering Committee chaired by
the Minister of Finance. This Committee is composed of key Ministers
(including the Minister of Trade, Industry and State Enterprises, Health,
Education and Presidential Affairs) and the Governor of the Bank of Sierra
Leone. A Technical Committee comprising of high level staff from various
line ministries and the Bank of Sierra Leone will assist the Steering
Committee and will be responsible for monitoring the program, including
policy indicators and coordinating the activities of all Government
agencies involved in program implementation. This Committee will be
chaired by the Financial Secretary. Periodically, the Committee will
inform the Bank on implementation progress. The overall reform effort
will be reviewed by the Government in close coordination with regular Bank
and IMF missions to ensure continued implementation of the public sector
reform within a sound macroeconomic framework.
7. Sustainability
The credit will make possible the financing of foreign exchange and
budgetary costs associated with extending peace and socio-political
stability and economic rehabilitation and recovery in those parts of the
- 3 -



country that have become accessible with the improvement in security.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from past operations experience are that program design
should be simple and address few but priority issues, and should be
revised midstream if necessary.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N In its continued efforts to
fight poverty, allocations to the social sectors have been substantially
increased to address urgent critical needs, especially in education and
health sectors. Textbooks, teaching and school materials are being
provided to all primary and secondary schools in accessible areas for the
academic year beginning September 2000. Universal free primary education
for children is being provided since the 2001 school year. The school
health program has kicked off with school children given special
identification tags to facilitate their attendance at specially assigned
satellite clinics.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed Credit is not expected to have any
negative environmental impact. The credit has been placed in Category C,
which does not require an environmental assessment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Preeti Arora, Senior Country Economist, AFTM5
The World Bank
Room J-9-125
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-8275
Fax:   (202) 473-8136
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telepone:(202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 19, 2001
- 4 -



