                                                       Documentof
                                                     The World Bank

                                              FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                                   Report No: 26512-CO




                                                  PROGRAM     DOCUMENT

                                                          OF THE

                        INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                                                          TO THE

                                                 EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS

                                                      ON A PROPOSED

           FIRSTPROGRAMMATICLABOR                REFORM AND SOCIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT                     LOAN
                                           IN THE AMOUNT OF us$200MILLION

                                                              TO

                                               THEREPUBLICOFCOLOMBIA




                                                       August 5,2003




Human Development Sector ManagementUnit
Colombia-MexicoCountry ManagementUnit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipientsonly in the performanceof their official duties. Its contents
may not be otherwisedisclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                       REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA - FISCAL YEAR
                                                    January 1 - December 31

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (as of July 3,2003)
                                            CurrencyUnit =Colombian Peso (COP)
                                                      US$l=2,816.60 Pesos

                                    SELECTEDABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARS           Administradoras del Regimen Subsidiado (InsuranceEntitiesof SubsidizedRegimes)
CAlP          Centros de Atencidn Integral a1 Preescolar (Centers o f IntegratedCare for Pre-SchoolChildren)
CAS           CountryAssistance Strategy
CCF           Cajas de Compensacidn Familiar (Compensation Associations)
CFAA          CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
CNSS          Consejo Nacional de SeguridadSocial en Salud (NationalCouncilof Social Securityin Health)
CPAR          CountryProcurementAssessment Report
CPI           Consumer Price Index
DANE          DepartamentoAdministrativo Nacional de Estadistica (NationalAdministrativeDepartmentof Statistics
DAPRE         Departamento Administrativo de la Presidencia de la Repliblica (AdministrativeDepartmentofthe President of the Republic)
DNP           DepartamentoNacional de Planeacidn (National PlanningDepartment)
EPS           Empresas Promotoras de Salud (Insurance Entities of Contributory Regimes)
FIAL          Programmatic Fiscaland InstitutionalAdjustment Program
FOSYGA        HealthCare Sector Fund
FY            FiscalYear
GDP           Gross DomesticProduct
GOC           Government of Colombia
HCB           Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar (CommunityWelfare DaycareCenters)
ICBF          Instituto Colombiano deBienestar Familiar (ColombianInstitutefor Family Welfare)
ICFES         lnstituto Colombianopara el Fomento de la Educacidn Superior (Colombian Institute for the Achievement of Higher Education)
ICT           Informationand CommunicationsTechnology
ICR           ImplementationCompletionReport
IDB           Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
IM            Initiating Memorandum
IMF           InternationalMonetaryFund
INS           lnstituto Nacional de Sahrd (National Health Institute)
IPS           HealthCareProviders
ISS           lnstituto deSecuridad Social (SocialSecurity Institute)
LIL           Learningand InnovationLoan
MC            Madres Comunitarias (communitycaregivers)
MEN           Ministry of Education
M&E           MonitoringandEvaluation
MOH           Ministry of Health
MSP           Ministryof Social Protection
PACES         Programa de Ampliacidn de la Cobertura de Educacidn Secundaria (Program for ExpandingCoverage of SecondaryEducation)
PAHO          Pan-AmericanHealthOrganization
PA1           Programa Ampliado de Immunizaciones (ExpandedProgramof Immunizations)
PLaRSSAL      ProgrammaticLabor Reformand Social StructuralAdjustment Loan
RAS           Red deApoyo Social (Social Safety Net)
RSS           Red de Solidaridad Social (Social Solidarity Network)
SAT           Sistema deAprendizaje Tutorial (Systemof Tutorial Learning)
SDR           SpecialDrawingRights
SECAL         Social Sector Adjustment Loan
SENA          Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National TrainingProgram)
SISBEN        Sistema de Seleccidn de Benejkiarios (System of BeneficiarySelection)
SSR           Sistema Social de Riesgo (SocialRisk System)
UPC           Unidad de Pago por Capitacidn (Risk AdjustmentPremium)

                         Vice President:                                        Davidde Ferranti
                         Chief Economist:                                       Guillermo Perry
                         Director, LCSHD:                                       Ana-Maria Aniagada
                         Country Director:                                      Isabel Guerrero
                         Sector Manager, LCSHS:                                 Christopher Chamberlin
                         Sector Leader, LCSHD:                                  Mark Hagerstrom
                         Task Manager:                                          Vicente Paqueo


         This report was prepared by a team consisting of Wendy Cunningham (deputy T M - LCSHS), Maria Luisa Escobar
         (LCSHH), Hideki Mori (LCSHD), Harry Patrinos (LCSHE), Manuel Salazar (LCSHS), Vicente Paqueo (TM-LCSHS)
         Christina Alquinta (LCSHD), and Tarsicio Castaneda(consultant). This operation was undertakenunder the general
         guidance of Mr. Mark Hagerstrom (Sector Leader, LCSHD), Mr.Christopher Chamberlin (Sector Manager, LCSHS), Ms.
         Ana-Maria Arriagada (Sector Director, LCSHD), and Ms.Isabel Guerrero (Country Director, LCClC). We acknowledge
         the valuable contributions of Mauricio Santamaria (LCSPP), Jairo Arboleda (LCCCO), and Martha Laverde (LCSHE).

                                         COLOMBIA           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

        FIRST PROGRAMMATIC LABORREFORM AND SOCIAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
                                                LOAN

                              LOAN    AND PROGRAMSUMMARY

      Borrower:           Republic o f Colombia

      Implementing        Ministry o f Finance
      Agencies:

      Poverty Category:   Poverty Targeted Intervention

      Amount:             US$200million

      Terms:              Fixed Spread Loan payable in 16.5 years, including 5.5 years of
                          grace, with commitment linkedand level repayment structure.

      Commitment Fee:     0.85% on undisbursedloan balances for first four years and 0.75% on
                          undisbursedloanbalancesthereafter.

      Front-EndFee:       1% o f the loan amount

      Objective:          The proposed Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural
                          Adjustment Loan will support the Government o f Colombia's (GOC)
                          objectives: (a) increase employment;      (b) raise human capital
                          formation; and (c) strengthen social protection. These objectives
                          would be achieved by: (i)supporting the reform o f GOC's labor
                          regulations; (ii)implementing Law 715 that amends the rules
                          regardingthe decentralization o f education and health services; and
                          (iii)developing an integratedand more efficient social protection
                          system.

      Description:        The Programmatic Labor Reform and Social SAL operation focuses
                          on the approval and the initial operationalization o f the recently
                          passed labor reforms and the acceleration of the implementation o f
                          the education, health, and social protection reforms, in accordance
                          with Laws 789 and 715 respectively.

                          The PLaRSSAL focuses specifically on:

                          (i) Greaterefficiencyinjobskillsformationandthelabormarket.
                          (ii) Increased coverage, efficiency, and targeting of social
                          protection programs, includingthe health sector, ICBF and SENA.
                          (iii)Qualityandcoverageimprovementsintheeducationsector.

      Benefits:           Social Impact. The Loan would increase the access of the poor to
                         the benefits offered by the labor and social reforms. Key expected
                          outcomes from the proposed operation (Annex I)   include:

This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                            Increase employment by 400,000 workers in the next four
                            years due to the labor reform;
                            Increased number o f graduates from publicly funded job
                            training and an increase in the number o f individuals
                            benefiting from apprenticeship experiences due to changes in
                            the labor law;
                            Increase the number o f students trained by SENA by nearly
                            half a million from its givenresources;
                            3.6-3.7 million additional children vaccinatedin 2006;
                            800,000 new affiliates in the Subsidized (Health Insurance)
                            Regime over the two years o f the operation;
                            Increased access o f poor children to ICBF services by 400,000;
                            and
                            Increase in net enrollments by 500,000 new students in the
                            mediumterm.

                     Poverty Impact. The social impacts have clear poverty implications
                     since most o f them are investments in the future productivity o f low-
                     income individuals. The increase inthe quantity o f education andjob
                     training, access to health care, immunizations and early childhood
                     development programs will increase the opportunities o f all
                     Colombians to earn the highrates o f return that elude those with less
                     human capital. Additionally, the actions in the loan will lead to the
                     positive non-monetary benefits associated with more human capital,
                     such as: longevity, decreased risk o f poverty, healthier off-spring,
                     etc. In the short-run, the program supports employment for hard-to-
                     employ groups, thus getting them back into the labor market and
                     earning an income.

Risks:               The primary risk is the overall political context, namely the intemal
                     conflict and violence associated with illegal drug activity, which has
                     been escalating and would negatively impact the continued
                      implementation o f the program.       Although Colombia is deeply
                      committed to ending the violence that has plagued the country for
                      decades and i s supported by the international community, the conflict
                     could intensify and thus demand attention and resources from the
                      govemment.

Project
IdentificationNumber: PO79060

                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.THEMACROECONOMIC,LABORMARKET,ANDSOCIALCONTEXT                                                                                                                              2

A.        MACROECONOMIC            ENVIRONMENT               .....................................................................................................       2
B.        POVERTY AND LABOR            MARKET           CHALLENGES..................................                  .................................................  4
C.        SOCIAL SECTOR ISSUES            ........................................................................................................................       6

11. LABORAND SOCIALREFORMPROGRAM: STRATEGYAND RECENTACTIONS                                                                                                                  9


111. THE PROPOSEDPROGRAMAND OPERATIONS                                                                                                                                      18


A.        LINKSWITHTHE BANK'SASSISTANCESTRATEGY............................                                 .......................................................
                                                                                                                      ...............................................   18
B.        PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION THE PROGRAM                   OF                                                                                           21
C.        THEPROPOSED        OPERATION            ..............................................................................................................        24
D.        SUBSEQUENT OPERATIONS                .................................................................................................................        25
E.        LOAN AMOUNT, CONDITIONS, AND FIDUCIARYAND SAFEGUARDPOLICIES                                                                .................................  26
F.        BENEFITS .............................................................................................................................................        29
G.        RISKS........................
                                     ............................................................................................................................       30

ANNEX I:PLARSSALPOLICY MATRIX                                                                                                                                               32


ANNEX 11: LETTEROF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY FROMTHE GOVERNMENT                                                                                                                     36


ANNEX 111: SOCIAL ISSUES AND CHALLENGES                                                                                                                                     65

ANNEX IV:INNOVATIVE EDUCATIONAL MODELSAND SERVICEDELIVERY SCHEMES                                                                                                           74


ANNEX V: FISCAL IMPACT OF IMPLEMENTING THE REFORMS                                                                                                                          76


ANNEX VI: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE                                                                                                                                                 77


ANNEX VII: COLOMBIA AT A GLANCE                                                                                                                                             78


ANNEX VIII: ADDITIONAL ANNEXES                                                                                                                                              80


ANNEX IX :MAP OF COLOMBIA

                                               TABLES

TABLE1: POVERTY RATES INCOLOMBIA. 1978-1999            ..........................................................................................          4
TABLE2: GOVERNMENT COLOMBIA EDUCATION
                   OF                                                                                                                                     12
TABLE3: EXPANDED IMMUNIZATIONPROGRAM:           ..............................................................................................
                                                      INDICATORSAND GOALS                             ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                          15
TABLE4: SOMEOFTHE ASSUMPTIONSMADEFORCALCULATINGTHE FUNDSFOR INCREASINGAFFILIATION
                              ................................................................................................................
TABLE5: 2002 ACTIONSTO RESTRUCTUREIssAND FINANCING IMPACT (MILLIONOF 2002 COPS)
        INTHE SUBSIDIZEDREGIME
                                                                                                                                                          18
TABLE6: PROGRAMMEDIUM-TERMOBJECTIVESANDPERFORMANCEINDICATORS                                                     ....................................
                                                                                                                                                ...........17
                                                                                                                                                          23
TABLE7: BENEFICIARYCHILDRENFROM ICBFSELECTEDPROGRAMS(THOUSANDS)                                                   ...................................     72

       FIRST PROGRAMMATIC LABORREFORMAND SOCIAL STRUCTURAL
                                         ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                                          PROGRAM      DOCUMENT

1.      This Program Document proposes the first of two Programmatic Labor Reform and Social
Structural Adjustment Loans (PLaRSSAL) to support the Government o f Colombia's (GOC) objectives
in the labor and social sectors to increase employment, raise human capital formation, and strengthen
social protection. These objectives would be achieved by: (i)   supporting the reform o f Colombia's labor
regulations; (ii)implementingLaw 715 that amends the rules regarding the decentralization o f education
and health services; and (iii)developing an integrated and more efficient social protection system.
Buildingonthe US$155 million Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL; 7134-CO) implemented during
FY 2003, which was rated "Satisfactory"          in its Implementation Completion Report (ICR), this
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan would consist o f two loans (PLaRSSAL Iand PLaRSSAL 11).
These operations would be proposedfor Boardpresentation inFY 2004 and FY 2005, respectively.

2.      The Bank has proposed this programmatic structural adjustment loan (PSAL) to support the
GOC's reform program for the following reasons. First, the GOC needs, and has requested, continued
assistance from the Bank to establish more solid conditions inthe country for the sustained expansion o f
employment, faster human capital accumulation, and better social protection o f the population,
particularly the poor and vulnerable. The GOC has requested.thisloan to help meet a projected financing
gap. Beyond this need, the proposed operation would address medium- and long-term issues related to
employment, human development, and povertyreduction challenges.

3.      With slow       economic     growth,   high and rising income inequality,          and widespread
unemploymenthnderemployment, Colombia continues to suffer high levels o f poverty. Many children
remain vulnerable to malnutrition and illhealth. Despite substantial resources spent on health, a high
proportiono f families still do not have adequate protection against financial losses from illness nor access
to good quality basic health services. Moreover, Colombia lags behind other competitor countries interms
o f the level and quality o f education and training, undermining its prospects for greater long-term
competitiveness and growth. In addition to this difficult economic situation, violent conflicts due to
guerrilla warfare and narco-trafficking remain unabated. All o f these issues have combined to create more
widespread economic and social insecurity, increasing the burden on the country's still inadequate social
protection system.

4.       Second, the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) considers the proposed operations a
priority. The GOC has a sound labor and social reform program that the Bank must support to succeed
(see GOC's Letter o f Development Policy in Annex 11). The implementation o f these reforms is expected
to increase employment, improve education and training, and strengthen human capital accumulation.
Since employment and education have been shown to be key pathways through which poor families are
able to raise their incomes and exit poverty, the programi s also expected to reduce poverty.

5.       Third, the current President Uribe administration (2002-2006) has the political will and capacity
to undertake this reform program. Clearly, the above-mentioned challenges are largely the same as those
that confronted previous administrations, despite the notable progress they achieved. What i s new in the
current environment, which has created hope among Colombians, is that the current administration i s
strong and reformist-and     i s led by an authoritative and popular President with an electoral mandate to
pursue further social and economic reforms and take more aggressive measures against violent
lawlessness. The political commitment and capacity o f the Uribe government are evident from the various
measures it has already implemented, including, among others: the robust implementation o f key



                                                       1

provisions o f Law 715 increasing the efficiency o f the basic education system; the passage of labor and
pension reform laws (Law 789 and Law 797, respectively) lowering the cost o f employment while
strengthening social protection; and tax and other measures taken early in its term to improve
macroeconomic andfiscal stability.

6.       Finally, the Bank is well-positioned to encourage and help Colombia complete the reform o f its
health, education, training, labor, and social protection systems. Since 1998, the GOC, the Bank, and the
Inter-American Bank (IDB) have been closely and fruitfully collaborating on labor and social sector
reform issues. This collaboration, which has been sustained by the current administration, has taken
various forms, including two World Bank investment loans' to support the Red de Apoyo Social (Social
Safety Net, RAS) program, the social sector SECAL, and a series o f analytical studies on poverty, social
protection, health, labor market, training, and education issues. The GOC appreciates the value o f the
Bank's continuous support, as expressed in the Letter o f Development Policy and in the government's
favorable views expressedinthe SECAL's ICR.

7.       Continuation o f support through this PSAL and the ongoing program o f analytical activities i s a
key factor in ensuring full implementation of a more effective labor and social reform agenda. Such
support i s critical since the reform agenda i s quite complicated politically and economically, requiring
many years o f persistentand consistent reform efforts that are necessary to buildthe economic and social
foundations for a peaceful society.

8.       The risks involved in the proposed operation appear moderate. These risks are manageable and
measures have beentaken to reduce them. These issues are discussed in Section 111.

9.       Section Ipresents the macroeconomic environment, a key condition o f this operation, and the
challenges Colombia faces regarding labor and social issues. Section I1 presents the GOC's reform
agenda and discusses the measures it has already taken to meet those challenges. The final section details
the specific objectives o fthe program, the policy matrix, impact andriskanalysis, and other aspects o fthe
lending operations.

I. TheMacroeconomic,LaborMarket,andSocialContext

A.       Macroeconomic Environment

10.      Colombia has a tradition o f stable economic growth, created and enabled by responsible fiscal
management. However, extemal and internal conditions in the late 1990s disrupted this prosperity,
leading to the current crisis o f fiscal constraints in an environment o f economic uncertainty. Despite
recent gains, including declining inflation rates, increased private sector activity, and greater financial
stability, the government i s still struggling with the aftermath o f the 1999 recession-which  exposed an
estimated three million people to poverty-and        searching for a means to rise above this situation and
protect itself from future negative shocks. This task i s particularly difficult given the tight fiscal
constraints. The Pastrana administration (1998-2002) aggressively worked to lower the financial
imbalance o f the public sector through a macroeconomic policy supported by the International Monetary
Fund (IMF). Despite the imposition o f fiscal discipline among sub-national governments, curtailed
expenditures, lower public service wages, and an increased VAT base, among other efforts, further
expenditure reduction and tax collection are necessary to revive growth. Thus, the quest for a manageable
deficit overshadows policy initiatives inthe current administration.



' Community   Works and Employment Project (7017-CO); Human Capital Protection Project (7050-CO).


                                                       2

11.     Macroeconomic Performance. Colombia's economic performance began to deteriorate in the
early 199Os, reaching its low point at the end o f the 1990s, but recent events indicate that it may be
improving. Although the economy grew by 1.4 percent in 2001 and about 2.0 percent in 2002, this still
corresponds to a decline inper capita terms. Major domestic obstacles to a robust recovery include weak
domestic demand associated with high unemployment, currently at almost 16.7 percent in urban areas,
and historically low private investment levels. In addition, exports, which had led the recovery in 2000,
have languished more recently due to a combination o f domestic and intemational factors. This has in
turn affected the performance of manufacturing, since much of manufacturing production is directed
towards exports, as a result o f weak demand at home. Sluggish domestic demand and worsening internal
security conditions are reflected in the continued weakness o f private investment. In the first quarter o f
2003, however, Colombia's GDP grew by 3.8 percent, the biggest growth in GDP infive years, signaling
that Colombia's growth might be at a turningpoint.

12.     Private GDP has grown little since the mid-l990s, and private investment has deteriorated from
its peak o f nearly 12 percent o f GDP in 1994 to under six percent at present. Total investment is now
about 13 percent o f GDP, incompatible with what the resumption o f significant growth would require.
While government consumption grew by two-thirds between 1994 and 2002, household consumption
remained basically unchanged.

13.     Colombia's exports (GNFS) fell from 20 percent o f GDP in 2000 to 18 percent of GDP in 2002
because o f declining petroleum production (despite the recent rise o f world oil prices), historically low
intemational coffee prices, difficulties in the important Venezuelan market, and the real appreciation o f
the peso in2001 and early 2002. While the country's non-traditional exports, mainly manufactured goods
and cut flowers, performed well inrecent years and now amount to over halfo ftotal merchandise exports,
the appreciation o f the peso in early 2002 and the economic slowdown in the United States, Venezuela,
and other Andean countries affected them negatively in 2002. The total extemal current account had a
deficit o f about 2.9 percent o f GDP in2002.

 14.    Inflation declined in2002, assistedby sluggish demand, and was about six percent, and i s expectd
to be the same for 2003.

 15.    Fiscal Performance. Over the past half-decade, new realities have emerged in Colombia's fiscal
domain, including significant deficits and large future fiscal liabilities. The rapid expansion o f the public
sector over the previous decade, from spending one fourth o f GDP in 1990 to over one-third o f GDP at
present, combined with growing liabilities, particularly on the pensions front, have led to significant and
persistent deficits o f a structural nature. As public spending rapidly outstripped the sector's revenue-
generating capacity, much o f the fiscal deficit was financed with debt, both domestic and external. At
present, total public sector debt in Colombia i s over 50 percent o f GDP. The estimated deficit o f the
consolidated public sector for 2002 was about 4 percent o f GDP, largely due to election year spending,
higher military outlays, and a weakening o f the social security institutions. On security spending alone,
the administration estimates that it will needan additional one percent of GDP per year.

 16.    The Uribe administrationhas stressed its commitment to continue the fiscal adjustment efforts of
the previous administration. In December 2002, Congress approved a strong tax package estimated to
increase tax collections by close to one percent o f GDP in 2003 and by even a higher amount in the
following two years. Also in that month, two key structural reforms were approved by Congress: a
strengthenedpensionreformto address the looming deficits ofthe social security sector, Colombia's most
pressingfuture fiscal liability; and a labor reform intendedto increase flexibility inColombia's rigid labor
market. An overhaul o f the public administration sector i s well underway. Additionally, Telecom was
liquidated and Cajanal and Carpecom were massively reformed. In June 2003, the GOC was finally
successful in passing through Congress a reform o f the Instituto de Seguridad Social (Social Security


                                                       3

Institute, ISS), which includes the separation o f service provision and financing. The fiscal deficit for the
Non-Financial Public Sector is expected to come down to 2.5 percent o f GDP in 2003 and 2004. In late
June, Congress approved a fiscal responsibility law. The government signed an agreement with the IMF
in January 2003 for a two-year SDR 1.5 billion (US$2.1 billion equivalent) Stand-By Agreement to
support its economic program through 2004. The first review o f the Stand-By Arrangement was
satisfactorily completed on June 11, 2003. All performance criteria and structural benchmarks for end
2002 and end-March 2003 have been observed (Annex VI).

17.      The Political and InternationalEnvironment.Colombia's vulnerability to extemal shocks has
risen in recent months as a result o f several factors: (i) increased violence domestically and uncertainty
about the future path o f the internal conflict; (ii)the sharp deterioration in sovereign debt spreads
(although some recovery has been seen inrecent months); (iii)     the recent worsening o f market sentiment
toward Latin America; (iv) problems in Venezuela, the largest market for Colombia's non-traditional
exports; and (v) an uncertain outlook for the U.S. economy, Colombia's main trading partner. However,
exchange rate flexibility, falling inflation, and adequate international reserve levels should facilitate
adjustment to extemal shocks, provided that a vigorous adjustment o f the fiscal accounts i s also
undertaken.

B.       Poverty and Labor Market Challenges

 18.     Poverty. After years o f decreasing poverty rates, the trend has reversed due to the recent
economic difficulties (Table 1). Between 1978 and 1995, national poverty rates declined from 80 percent
to 60 percent. This was largely accomplished in urban areas, where poverty fell by 22 percentage points,
while inrural areas, poverty declined by 15 percentage points. However, between 1995 and 1999, poverty
rates increased, thus largely erasing the gains made between 1988 and 1995; by 1999, urban poverty was
seven percentage points higher than it had been in 1995. Incontrast, in rural areas, the poverty rate did
not increase with the 1999 recession, but the poverty gap increased by four percentage points, indicating
that the difference between the poor and the rich inrural areas increased over the period.

                            Table 1: PovertyRates in Colombia, 1978-1999

                                      1978                 1988               1995               1999

              National                 80                   65                 60                  64
              Urban                    70                   55                 48                  55
              Rural                    94                   80                  79                 79

              National                 45                   29                 21                  23
              Urban                    27                    17                 10                 14
              Rural                    68                   48                 37                  37



 19.  '   Extreme poverty rates decreased faster than poverty rates in the period 1978-1995, but they
 slightly increased in the 1999 recession. Nationally, extreme poverty rates declined from 45 percent in
 1978 to 21 percent by 1995, but the recession led to an increase in the extreme poverty rate by 2
 percentage points. This is due to increased impoverishment in urban areas, as extreme poverty rates in
 rural areas did not change between 1995 and 1999. However, it should be noted that extreme poverty
 rates inrural areas are more than double those inurban areas (37 percent compared to 14 percent).

 20.      Income inequality has increased in Colombia since 1978. The Gini coefficient was 0.53 in 1978,
 but reached 0.57 by 1999. Most o f the increase was due to a larger dispersion o f wages within regions,



                                                       4

rather than an increase in the wage gap between regions. The increased wage dispersion is attributed to
the increased dispersion in educational attainment and returns to education and to greater informal sector
employment, where remunerations have a higher variance than inthe formal sectore2

21.     Labor Market. After years o f good performance, the Colombian labor market has stalled. Key
indicators o f crisis include:

        Persistently high unemployment rates. Since 1995, the national unemployment rate has increased
        from 7 percent to above 15 percent-double the historical rate-and       only recently declined to 12
        percent. The rates are particularly high in urban areas where they reached 20 percent in 2000.
        Youth and women experience the highest unemployment rates; over 60 percent o f poor urban
        youth report being unemployed and women report rates that are more than a third higher than
        those o f men. Unemploymentrates o f household heads-typically        the primary income earners in
        the household-have      also rapidly increased, leading to an acceleration o f poverty. The majority
        o f the unemployed were previously employed in the informal sector, thus making them ineligible
        for severance pay or other types o f separation compensation.

        Increasing rates of underemployment. The percentage o f workers employed fewer than 35 hours
        weekly has also been increasing since the mid-1990s. Among men, this i s likely due to demand
        side factors, where firms decrease hours worked, rather than supply side factors that would lead
        workers to prefer shorter work weeks. Women are disproportionately engaged inpart-time work,
        but the data do not reveal ifthis pattern offemale employment i s demand drivensimilar to menor
        supply driven since women's labor market activity is often constrained by household
        responsibilities. Over 70 percent o f the underemployedholdjobs inthe informal ~ e c t o r . ~

        A rise in informal sector employment. Since the mid-l990s, the propation o f workers who own
        their firms or are employed infirms that do not pay worker benefits has increased. By June 2000,
        over 60 percent o f jobs in urban Colombia and 91 percent in rural areas were in the informal
        sector, the highest proportion ever. Among urban informal sector workers, 60 percent are self-
        employed, 40 percent are informal employees, and a small proportion i s unpaid.' The increased
        informality reflects the dualistic nature o f the post-1995 labor market where relative formal sector
        wage increases have occurred simultaneously with a growth in the relative size o f the informal
        sector.6

        Stagnant wages. Although average wages increased throughout the 199Os, this trend hides the
        fact that wages o f low- and semi-skilledworkers stagnated over the same period. Instead, wages
        o f the most skilled workers, who were also the most highly paid, have increased rapidly
        throughout the 1990s, reflecting increasingreturns to higher ed~cation.~

22.     Certain groups are more vulnerable to poverty through unemployment and low wages. Multiple
worker households are replacing the traditional model o f a single worker in the household where the


* Colombia  Poverty Assessment (2002) (World Bank: Washington, DC).
 Hugo Lopez Castafio(May 2001) "Mercado LaboralColombiano: Funcionamiento y BarrerasInstitucionales",
WorldBanWLCSPR,unpublished manuscript.
 Ibid.
 Ibid.
 Wendy V. Cunninghamand William F. Maloney(forthcoming)"An AlternativeView ofthe Informal Sector" in
FranciscoCarneiro, IndermitGill, RicardoPaesde Barros,andAndreas Blom(eds.) Making Brazil s Labor Market
'Workfor Everyone.
  LopezCastafio(2001).


                                                        5

income o f many i s required to maintain an acceptable standard o f living. Thus, youth (age 18-25) and
women are entering the labor market at a faster rate, particularly as economic uncertainty increases.
While youth and (married) female unemployment is higher than male adult unemployment throughout the
world and across time, and their wages are lower than those o f men, the employment gaps have become
particularly wide in recent times. Wage gaps, though declining, do persist.'           Additionally, the growing
situation o f the internally displaced populations-individuals            who have abandoned their assets in
conflict regions and moved to new labor markets in which they have few skills and networks-has                led to
a group o f economically vulnerable Colombians who do not have the skills to integrate into the urban
labor markets in their new homes.' Finally, the low-skilled workers are being left behind both interms
o f employment and wages.

23.       The source o f the troubling labor market trends varies. In general, however, the increased
unemployment is due to both the decreasein demand and the continued growth and changing composition
o f the labor force. The size o f the labor force continues to grow as youth and women enter the labor force
as a source o f "social safety nets" for their families duringuncertain economic periods. These groups tend
to have difficulty finding employment due to their scarce or intermittent job experience and competing
demands on their time, whether from school or family.

24.       Onthe demand side, the specific causes may be related to increased rigidities inthe labor market
including the real increase in the minimum wage in 1999;" higher total wage bills as the payroll taxes
that add an additional 50 percent to wage bills increased as real incomes increase;" firm down-sizing and
cost-cutting to remain competitive in the global economy;'2 a decrease in aggregate demand that was
exacerbated by the external shocks, fiscal imbalance, and the growing incidence o f violence, that were the
basis o f the 1999 recession; and/or obsolescence o f skills as technological advances and information
transform the global economy.I3 Economic analysis points particularly to the notable increase in real
minimumwage, which hasbeenincreased generously following the inflationaryperiod.

 C.       Social Sector Issues

 25.      This section briefly reviews the issues facing Colombia in the social sectors: education, job
 training, healthcare, social protection, early childhood care (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar,
 Colombian Institutefor Family Welfare, ICBF), and social oversight. Details o f each sector are provided
 inAnnex 111.

 26.      Education and Training. The interaction betweeneducation, job training, and technology is the
 key to economic growth, but Colombia is unlikely to fully benefit from technological innovations in the
 global economy due to its inefficient and under-performing education andjob training systems.




   Lopez Castaiio (2001).
   World Bank (2002) "Program Document for aProposedSocial Sector Adjustment Loan", Report No. 24489.
 lo Jairo Nuiiez and William F. Maloney (2001) Measuring the Impact of Minimum Wages: Evidencefrom Latin
 America. Policy ResearchWorking Paper 2597, (World Bank: Washington DC).
    Vicente Fretes-Cibils and Vicente Paqueo (2003) "Enhancing Opportunities through the Labor Markets" in
 Marcelo Guigale, Connie Luff(eds.) Colombia: The Economic Foundations of Peace (World Bank: Washington,
 DC).
 I* Non-wagebenefits increase the cost of labor by approximately 62 percent. Although some of this may be offset
 by lower wages, firms absorb the other part, which will not be sustainable in some industries(Lopez Castaiio 2001),
 particularly ifthey are subject to competition,whether global or local.
 13 David de Ferranti,Guillermo Perry, Indermit Gill, Jose Luis Guasch, William Maloney, Carolina Sanchez-Parma,
 andNorbert Schady (2003) Closing the Gap in Education and Technology (World Bank: Washington, DC).


                                                          6

27.      Coverage. Although the average education level o f adults increased 11percent between 1996 and
2001, recent trends among children suggest that achievement could be higher, particularly in rural areas.
Colombian adults have an average o f 5.3 years o f education, compared to 8.8 years in Argentina, 8.6
years inPanama, and 7.6 years inChile, Peru, and Uruguay. Net enrollment rates for primary, secondary,
and higher education are 82 percent (down from 84 percent), 63 percent, and 15 percent, respectively.
While promotion rates from the first to second grade have increased over time, they are still only 73
percent and repetition rates at the first grade are nearly ten percent, an increase from previous years.
These average numbers mask the large disparity between the rural and urban outcomes. While
Colombia's publicjob training programs are large-educating more than one million students annually in
the Sewicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Training Program, SENA) alone-the        programi s not well
targeted to the poor, who most lack humancapital.

28.      Quality. Achievement tests show that Colombian students may be on par with other Latin
American countries, but they lag relative to the global labor force. Colombia ranked second to last among
the 40 countries that participated in the TIMSS (Third International Math and Science Study) in 1995. A
similar low ranking was achieved by Colombian students on the P I E S (Progress in International
Reading Literacy Study) in 2001. Even more worrisome i s that these numbers represent a decline in the
quality o f education in public schools since the 1980s. The low quality o f training programs has also
become an issue, as rates o f return to job training have declined over timei4 and employers and workers
argue that publicly provided job training programs are increasingly unable to provide competencies in
emerging ind~stries.'~

29.      Low Efficiency. Low coverage and poor quality o f education services are particularly
disappointing since Colombia spends a substantial amount o f resources on education and training.
Education spending accounts for 4.1 percent o f GDP, which i s similar to average spending by middle
income countries, such as Argentina (4.5 percent), Chile (4.2 percent), and Mexico (4.4 percent), but still
below the OECD average of five percent. Interms o f training, two percent o f all payroll tax, equal to 0.3
percent o f GDP i s spentjust on one public training program (SENA), which only i s responsible for 20
percent o f alljob training inColombia.

30.      Health Reform. The Uribe administration faces the continuing challenge o f completing the
implementation o f the envisioned health system reform o f 1993 (Law 100/93), which seeks to separate
health care finance from provision of services. In addition, the administration needs to ensure that it will
achieve close to universal immunizationo f children by the end o f its term.

31.      Universal vaccination. By 1995, Colombia achieved immunization coverage levels o f 90 percent
or more for all routine vaccines. However, since 1997, coverage levels for all vaccines have declined
below 80 percent. Both financial and institutional factors appear to be the underlying causes for the
decline. Since 2001, budgetary resources have been allocated to address the problem, but continuous
efforts through 2006 and beyond are neededto reach the target vaccination rates.

32.      Universal health care insurance and efficiency in service provision. The health system reform
called for a transformation o f the health care financing scheme from supply side financing-where   public
hospitals are directly funded by the government-to       demand side financing where all individuals hold
health insurance and are free to select their healthcare providers, and hospitals receive their resources
through the insurance (EPSs-Contributory Regime-and ARSs-Subsidized Regime). The poor are eligible


 l4Barrera, Felipeand Alejandra Corchuela(inprogress) "SENA Retums: A Re-evaluation," LCSHSIWB.
   Alejandro Vivas (inprocess) "Capacitacion Vocacional en Colombia: Percepcionessobre el SENA por Parte de
 Trabajadores, Empresarios, Gremios e Institucionesde Capacitacion Privadas," LCSHSiWorld Bank; Fedesarrollo
 (inprocess) "Firms' Perceptionson SENA: A Survey," LCSHSiWorld Bank.


                                                       7

for the Subsidized Regime (Regimen Subsidiado), which is paid by the government, while the non-poor
pay into the Contributory Regime (Regimen Contributivo). This system has two benefits. First, poor
individuals are fully covered by a public subsidy to their insurance. Second, the quality and efficiency o f
hospital services will likely increase as providers compete for clients.

33.      Although the transformation i s in process, several issues remain to be worked out. First, the
number of affiliates of the SubsidizedRegime needs to be increased by another five million to reach the
target o f 33 percent coverage o f the whole population (the remaining two-thirds o f the population will be
covered by the Contributory Regime). Second, acquisition o f funding for the remaining subsidies is
difficult since public hospitals are using those resources to provide services to individuals not yet
affiliated with the Subsidized Regime. These hospitals have no incentive to efficiently provide services,
so resources are particularly scarce. Third, for the new system to be effective, collection o f accurate
information about the insurers and providers and dissemination o f the information to users is crucial; no
such system exists.

34.      Social Protection. The administration views social protection as the efficient and equitable
management o f all social risks and their consequences. An integrated social risk management system i s
the key to more efficient and wider reaching social protection.

35.      Unijied social protection strategy. The Ministry o f Social Protection (MSP) was created to
oversee the efficient delivery o f risk management services to the population. Colombia's diverse set o f
social protection programs emerged in an ad hoc manner, leading to a duplication o f programs, poor
targeting o f services, competing incentives, and general inefficiency. To organize and streamline the
social protection system, the MSP i s charged with developing a risk management strategy that
encompasses the existing institutions (SENA, ICBF) and programs and consolidating the many social
protection programs under this umbrella. The strategy and process i s yet to be developed.

36.      Counter-cyclical social protection expenditures. Colombia lacks a good system for protecting the
poor and most vulnerable during crisis and addressing the needs o f the chronically poor during normal
times. Most social insurance and assistanceprograms are financed by payroll contributions (parafiscales),
which are very pro-cyclical and some (such as Cajas de Compensacih) only serve families o f formal
sector workers-who      tend to be less exposed to risk. Inresponse, a Social Safety Net Program (Red de
Apoyo Social) was created to cope with the recent recession, but the question on how to institutionalize
the safety nets remains.

37.      ICBF Reform. The ICBF serves, among others, one o fthe most vulnerable groups inColombia-
children younger than age seven from poor families-but      structural problems with ICBF and a decreasing
budget require deep program reforms. In 2002, ICBF programs benefited nearly one million children
younger than age 7-85     percent o f whom attended community childcare centers (Hogares Comunitarias
de Bienestar, HCB)-and       distributed food supplements to 2.3 million children on a regular basis. The
impressive coverage rates mask the fact that: (i)   targeting o f ICBF programs to poor families has been
decreasing since 1991;16 (ii)  ten percent fewer children received services in 2002 than in 1998; and (iii)
the quality of inputs, and thus the quality o f services, is low.l7 Additionally, the scheme to finance the
HCBs is not well monitored, leading to potential leakage in funds. In a period o f decreasing resource




 l6Between 1992 and 1997, childcare coverage of children belonging to urban families in the first income quintile
decreased by 20 percent. World Bank (2002) Colombia Poverty Report. Report No. 24524-CO (World Bank:
Washington, DC).
"EvaluacidndeImpact0de10sHogaresComunitariosdeBientestar (ICBF, 1997).



                                                      8

constraints18and increased demand on social services due to the economic volatility and the violence that
adds to the displaced population, a focused strategy for quality service delivery to the poorest clients and
transparency in program outputs (impact evaluation and cost-effectiveness analysis) and expenditures i s
crucial.

38.       Transparency and Social Control. To increase the efficiency o f social expenditures, monitoring
and evaluation and transparency in public spending are necessary. Colombia lacks a culture o f evaluation
and no social program i s subject to periodic impact evaluations. This leads to inefficient social spending
and difficulties inidentifying and designingprogram improvements, which is particularly important inthe
current fiscally constrained environment. The public has also perceived that the lack o f monitoring and
evaluation, transparency, and internal controls are the principle causes o f misallocated federal resources,
whether due to waste or corruption. The poor particularly do not have access to information regarding
resource allocation criteria and mechanisms to feed their concems into the decision-making system are
weak.

39.       The achievement o f better transparency and evaluation i s difficult. Evaluationand dissemination
o f results can be costly and Colombia i s resource constrained. Also, implementation o f such a system, and
culture, i s a complicated and politically sensitive undertaking that will require consultation with
stakeholders. Nonetheless, recent achievements in monitoring and evaluation have demonstrated the
importance o f confronting the challenges.

11.       Labor and Social Reform Program: Strategy and Recent Actions

40.       Labor and Training Reform. The GOC i s addressing the labor market conditions that expose
individuals to poverty, most notably through the Labor Reform Law (789/02) approved by Congress in
December 2002. By identifyingthe cost o f labor as a major constraint to new hiring," the labor reform
bill creates incentives for employers to increase employment through:

     (0       The reduction of non-wage labor costs to employers. This provision includes a less perverse
              schedule for severance payments; limited retroactivity o f severance payments; and a waiver
              o f parafzscales (payroll taxes) for students, the young, older workers, and others who are
              difficult to employ;

     (ii) Thereductionof structural ineflciencies toemployers.Theperiodoftheregularworkday
              was extended to allow for two full-time shifts, thus encouraging the hiring o f additional
              employees to fillthe second shift; and

     (iii) The reduction of wage labor costs to employers. Through the apprenticeship program,
              employers can hire low-skilled apprentices and pay them below the minimum wage.
              Additionally, the premiumto work overtime on holidays and Sundays was decreased.

41.       At the programmatic level, the GOC, with the support o f the World Bank, is seeking to alleviate
the unemployment problem through the development of the workfare program, Empleo en Accidn. This
program provides temporary employment to low skilled, SISBEN 1 or 2 (System o f Beneficiary
Selection, based on poverty status), mostly unemployed individuals in urban areas. It is estimated that
90,000 jobs were directly created in 2002 and another 40,000 - 60,000 were indirectly created. To

'* Three  percent of payroll tax is earmarked to fund ICBF programs. The total value ofthese taxes has decreased in
recent years due to: (i)the recession,which decreased the size of the payroll; and (ii) exemptions in the new labor
bill that waive the paymentof this tax (among others) for certaingroups ofworkers.
l 9Vicente Fretes-Cibilsand Vicente Paqueo(2003).


                                                         9

complement this program, the Labor Reform Law stipulates a short-term employment subsidy for new
hiring by small and medium sized firms, but an enabling regulationhas yet to be established. Inaddition,
to protect the unemployed, the Law provides for the creation o f an unemployment insurance program.
Similarly, this program needs an enabling decree. Initially, this program would be funded by a
reallocation o f a fraction o f the revenues earmarked for the Cajas de Compensacidn (Compulsory
Workers' CompensationFund2').

42.      The GOC is addressing the unsatisfactory targeting o f Colombia's training programs and i s
working to improve the efficiency o f the SENA. Regarding the targeting, the GOC has recognized the
special circumstances o f youth. Two primary initiatives are underway:

    (a) Reform of the Apprenticeship program. To improve the quality and relevance o f vocational
         education and training and to provide opportunities for matching young workers with firms, the
         Labor Reform Law includes a provision that gives incentives to firms to employ apprentices. In
        particular, firms are permitted to employ apprentices at a sub-minimum wage and to waive
        payment o f the paraJscales. The program has been expanded to provide incentives for firms
         usingprivate sector training services, thus creating some competition in the government's public
         training programs; and

     (b) Institutionalization of Jovenes en Accidn. SENA has adopted this RAS youth training program,
         which is in its third year. This program could provide the institution with valuable experience to
         develop a more generalized use o f vouchers as method for funding competitively provided
         training services involving the private sector. The program is designedto provide three months o f
         training and three months o f apprenticeship to unemployed SISBEN 1 and 2 youth. The training
         courses are provided by private firms, but are certified and supervised by the GOC. The program
         pays for the training costs andpays a stipend to the trainees.

43.      The National Development Plan 2002-20062' outlines a new role for SENA as the leader in skills
formation in a (National) Comprehensive Job Training Strategy that would include both the public and
private sectors. Inthis role, SENA's responsibilities would be expanded to include serving as a regulator
and certifier to ensure the quality o f the training courses offered. Additionally, SENA's existing program
would be improved by: (i)      increasing the quality and pertinence o f SENA training courses; (ii) its  using
installed capacity more effectively; (iii)      decentralizing its operations; and (iv) increasing use o f and
training ininformationand communications technology (ICT).

44.      However, since the Development Planwas written, the strategy o f the GOC has evolved, with the
Bank's support in bringing together the Departamento Nacional de Planeacidn (National Planning
Department, DNP), the Ministry o f Social Protection (MSP), and SENA to redefine SENA's mission
within the strategy o f the MSP and within the broader national development strategy, which is the
responsibility o f the DNP. While the DNP, MSP, and SENA agree that a CONPES (Consejo Nacional de
Politica Econdmicay Social, an authoritative statement o f government policy and guidelines issues by the
Legislature's National Council o f Social and Economic Policy) would be written that defines the modern
mission o f SENA as a regulator, financier, certifier, and promoter o f knowledge inthe global information
society and that the CONPES would address the topics o f decentralization, division between the provision
o f financing and services, downsizing, training vouchers, types o f courses offered by the SENA, and


2oThe Cajas de Compensacibn are private sector entities that are publicly fundedby payroll tax. Individuals select
the Cajathat they want to be affiliated with. The entity administersthe hnds for family subsidies, income support,
and in-kind subsidies such as recreationfacilities.
2`Bases del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2002-2006: Hacia un Estado Comunitario (Bogoti: Presidencia de la
Republica-DepartamentoNacional de Plantacibn).


                                                          10

targeting o f services, the process to prepare and win buy-in for the CONPES faces two challenges:
information and public support.

45.      An absence of information about the demand and supply o f job skills and the market for job
training services makes it difficult to design the model and transition process so that SENA becomes a
regulator, financer, and promoter o f knowledge while the private sector handles the bulk o f the actual
service provision. Thus, two actions are beingundertakenby the GOC, with Bank support. First, the late
Minister of Social Protection and the World Bank co-hosted a workshop in Colombia where individuals
from countries with demand-driven job training systems shared their experiences with SENA. Second,
SENA, MSP, DNP, and the World Bank are collaborating on a study to identifythe vocational education
and training needs o f Colombia's citizens and how to best meet those needs. This report (expected by
December 2003) will form the basis o f the CONPES and the Action Plan for implementation o f the
CONPES     .

46.      Previous attempts at reforming SENA have not succeeded due to the failure to take into account
the public support for the maintenance o f the institution and its existing programs. Thus, the report
mentioned above will also be used as a tool for public discussions and consultations to gain support for
the CONPES and the Action Plan. This step i s crucial to any successful reforms.

47.      Inthe meantime, SENA is making efforts to increase the efficiency of its services by downsizing
staff. While the types o f services offered by SENA may change as a result o f the study and the CONPES,
it is likely that the reforms will be gradual and costly, requiring increased efficiency in activities that are
likely to persist after the reform or be one of the last to be restructured, such as the provision of short
duration training courses.

48.      EducationReformImplementation.The GOC is committed to sustained implementation o f the
country's education reform agenda and has made education development a high priority. The main
elements o f Colombia's Revolucidn Educativa (Educational Revolution) are summarized in the National
Development Plan. The primary strategic results, listed inTable 2, include:

     0   Greater coverage. The goal of the GOC i s to increase coverage by 1.5 million places in
         preschool, primary, and secondary education, and by 400,000 places in higher education. This
         goal will be achieved through strategies that promote greater efficiency and access to education,
         especially for disadvantaged children and youth. As shown inTable 2, out o f the 1.5 million new
         places, 800,000 will be achieved through efficiency gains from the reorganization o f regional
         education systems and the rationalization o f the way resources are used.

         Improved student learning and teachers ' performance. The GOC aims to improve education
         quality so that the students develop basic competencies, and labor market and citizenship skills.
         The Ministry o f Education (MEN) will regularly test students in all schools to measure their
         learning achievement, monitor its trend, and promote social accountability. Moreover, following
         the mandate of Law 715, a regulatory decree enabling systematic and regular measurement o f
         teachers' performance will be issued. The MEN will develop and pilot ways o f measuring
         teachers' performance. Furthermore, it will test performance-based incentive schemes to motivate
         teachers to teach more effectively. Regarding post basic education, the goals are to increase the
          quality o f low ranking higher education institutions as measured by ICFES (Instituto Colombiano
         para el Foment0 de la Educacidn Superior) tests and to provide opportunities for people to
          achieve formal education credits through a certification process based on equivalency tests.

     0   Better use of education resources. Unlike in the past when the transfer o f education resources to
         the territorial entities was based on the number o f teachers, Law 715 mandates that the


                                                      11

        distributionbe based on the number o f students attending, coverage gaps, and poverty indicators.
        A CONPES was approved to define the implementation rules for the distribution o f educational
        transfers pursuant to Law 715. Regulations were enacted for the implementation o f the law
        regarding the information system. These regulations strengthen the capacity o f the MENto assist
        territorial entities to develop their education information systems. Moreover, a decree has also
        been issued providing guidelines for public education institutions on contracting private providers
        for the deliveryo f educational services.


                  Table 2: Government of Colombia Education Indicators and Goals




     with the national tests (grades 5 evaluated/total
     and 9 j                           municipalities
     (2) Proportionofpublic            % increaseinstitutions       0              0            4.0%
     institutionsincategoriesmedium incategoriesmedium
     andhigh                           andhigh
     (3) Programs applying quality     Number of programs           3             14           69
     examsin higher education
     (nzicleos bhicosj


     departmentsimunicipalitieswith
     informationsystems innetwork
     with Ministry-ofEducation
     (2) Secretariatsin departments/   Numberof secretariats        0            78           100
     municipalitiescertified
     (3) Municipalitiescertified       Numberof                     2            42            60
                                       municipalities


49.     The funding formula has started to create pressure on the territorial entities and their schools to
enroll more children, fearing that otherwise they would lose money. To ensure that the incentive effect is
maintained over time, good information and verification systems need to be established to support the
correct and honest application o f the distribution formula. The MENhas made considerable progress in
this area. Furtheradvances are expected toward completion o fthe system. Complementing this effort, the
MENis providingtechnical assistanceto territorial Secretaries of Educationto develop reliable databases
for monitoring and evaluation purposes.

50.     The MEN has also entered into agreements with Secretaries o f Education to motivate and help
them to restructure their education system and make it more productive-concentrating         rationalization
efforts in 42 decentralized municipalities with over 10,000 residents (over 70 percent o f the student



                                                      12

population). Many o f these agreements relate to the process o f certification o f municipalities, whereby
Secretaries, once certified, will receive their education transfers in a form that allows them to have
discretionary authority over those resources.

51.     Regarding contracting private sector providers, the Development Plan indicates that a large
number of student places inprimary and secondary education (about 640,000) would be created through
contract service agreements and scholarships.

52.     In addition to this new approach, the MENplans to expand rural education by 60,000 places
during 2002-2006 through innovative models such Escuela Nueva (approach to primary education
designed for multi-grade schools in rural areas); Telesecundaria (distance education); and Sistema de
Aprendizaje Tutorial (System of Tutorial Learning, SAT). A description o f these and other innovations is
providedinAnnex IV.

53.     Finally, the administration has now firmly adopted the Familias en Accidn program as a social
protection instrument that can be used to promote universal basic education. The program awards cash
transfers to poor families in return for keepingtheir children in school. A recent impact evaluation o f the
program shows that one year after implementation, school attendance among 14-17 year olds increased by
13 percent inurban areas and five percent inrural areas, as compared to the control group.

54.     Social Risk Management System Development. In 2002, the previous Pastrana administration
issued a CONPES outlining a Social Risk Management Framework (SSR) and social protection strategy
for Colombia. This document articulated measuresto be undertaken by the R A S programs, ICBF, SENA,
and other agencies to better and more efficiently respond to crisis periods and to help the chronically poor
and the displaced populations. Subsequently, the new administration, recognizing the desirability o f a
more integrated and comprehensive approach to social protection-an          issue highlighted in the Bank's
Securing our Future and Colombia Social Safety Net reports-set       out to develop a comprehensive social
riskmanagement system.

55.      Several significant advances have been made on this strategy. First, the Ministry o f Social
Protection (MSP) was established in February 2003 through a merger o f the Ministries o f Labor and
Health. This new ministry i s intended to form the institutional backbone o f Colombia's evolving social
risk management system. It is charged with consolidation of the existing social protection programs by
designing coordinated strategies and policies through public health, early childhood (ICBF), skills
training (SENA), health and unemployment insurance, pension, and other labor-related initiatives.
Consequently, the MSP will oversee a variety o f previously uncoordinated agencies that provide the bulk
o f social assistance and insurance protection in Colombia, including ICBF, SENA, and other agencies in
health, labor, and Cajas de Compensacion Familiar. This effort i s expected to increase efficiency by
eliminating duplication o f functions and through appropriate division o f labor.

56.      The MSP is in the process o f developing its mission, strategy, and operating procedures, while
bringing in line the various programs and institutions for which it is responsible. Although it remains to
be seen how effective the MSP will be in coordinating powerful institutions such as ISS, ICBF, SENA,
and Cajas, which have their own earmarked funding, the establishment o f the MSP represents a very
important step forward in creating an integratedsocial riskmanagement system.

57.      Second, the Tax Reform Law enacted in December 2002 created the Social Protection Fund
(Fondo de Equilibrio y Proteccidn Social) to provide financing for social assistance. The objective o f the
Fund is to safeguard social spending and maintain and extend social protection interventions during
economic crises and fiscal adjustments. It will receive resources during good economic periods and only
disburse payments when negative economic shocks increase social protection needs. Although the fund


                                                     13

will be subject to cyclical changes since it is partly based on payroll taxes, it can nevertheless be used
potentially for counter-cyclical purposes, since the Fundwill manage all R A S funds and others not tied to
payroll contributions. The GOC will issue neededregulations to establish a functioning Social Protection
Fund.

58.    Third, as part of the reform effort to better coordinate social insurance and assistance programs, all
three Social Safety Net (RAS) programs are planned to be transferred from the Presidency to the MSP.
The R A S program, supported by the Bank and IDB, was implemented to meet the needs o f Colombians
who were particularly vulnerable to poverty as a result o f the recession. The objective o f the programwas
to provide cash transfers in exchange for actions that were an "investment" in the individuals' human
capital. Thus, three programs were developed: Familias en Accidn, which exchanges cash transfers for
school and health center attendance o f children, Jdvenes en Accidn, which funds scholarship grants to
poor youth for skills training, and Empleo en Accidn, a community-based temporary employment
program for the needy. The GOC has started the institutionalization process o f the RAS.

59.      Fourth, a renewed effort to target the poor populations has emerged with the nationwide
implementation o f the Sistema de Seleccion de Benejkiarios (System o f Beneficiaries Selection,
SISBEN) surveys to update municipal databases (started in 2003). This effort is expected to make the
SISBEN Index significantly more accurate as a poverty status indicator and to improve its administration,
auditing, and regulatory framework. Sanctions for false information and mismanagement o f the system
are beingcontemplated.

60.      With respect to ICBF, initial steps were taken in conjunction with the S E C K operation to
address some o f the problems regarding the efficiency, equity, and quality o f its child care services (see
Annex 111). These steps include: (i)a pilot program to separate financing from provision through
decentralization and local government participation; (ii)   a cost-recovery policy to be implemented in the
Centros de Atencidn Integral a1Preescolar (Centers o f Integrated Care for Pre-School Children, CAIPs)
based on sliding-scale fees graduated by income from users; (iii)a monitoring scheme based on a
citizen's oversight plan in each ICBF regional office; and (iv) a technical review o f the management
information system.

61.      During President Uribe's administration, ICBF plans to undertake three noteworthy measures.
First, it will establish quantitative targets increasing the share o f ICBF expenditures going to SISBEN 1
or 2 and, to complement this policy measure, monitor their achievement. Second, it will evaluate the
impact and cost o f its major assistance and prevention programs. Third, based on the results o f the
evaluation, the Institute will focus the use o f its resources on strategic, high value-added, and pro-poor
programs. It i s noteworthy that ICBF has decided that its nutrition programs for under seven year olds
will be limitedto poor children.

62.      Health Services: Increased Immunization Coverage and Nutrition. The GOC has committed
itself to strengthening public health. It has established the achievement o f 95 percent immunization
coverage rate by 2006 as a national priority goal (see Table 3 for cost estimates). A strategy for achieving
this goal hasbeenworked out, basedon a detailed evaluation ofthe entire national immunizationprogram
conducted by the pertinent national authorities in collaboration with the Pan-American Health
Organization (PAHO). In addition, a five-year Action Plan, including short and medium-term activities,
was developed by the MSP and the National Institute o f Health (INS) to strengthen the Programa
Ampliado de Immunizaciones (Expanded Program o f Immunizations PAI). In line with this strategy and
action plan, the national authorities increased PA1 funding for the purchase o f vaccines and syringes to
cover immunization needs for 2002. Law 715 o f 2001 also clarified the roles and responsibilities o f
concerned government agencies regarding the funding and implementation o f the PAI. Under this new




                                                       14

law, the central government i s responsible for the purchase o f vaccines and syringes through the PA1
program, while the municipalities are responsible for the immunizationitself.

                                        Table 3: ExpandedImmunizationProgram:
                              Cost projectionsfor the period2003-2006. Millionsof Pesos

                                                                                                          Total
    cost                   2003             2004               2005                 2006                  2003-2006
    Vaccines               70,668           64,324             63,637               64,446                263,076
    Consumables'           10,848           8,857              8,788                 8,869                37,364
    Total cost             81,517           73,181             72,425               73,315                300,440
           Source: Ministry of Social Protection, 2003.
           Note: 1. Consumablescosts include costs for administration, technical assistance, vocational training, transportation,
           information systems, the cold chain etc.

63.     The GOC gave a considerable boost to its public health agenda by continuing to provide strong
support to the Familias en Accibn program. This program has provided health subsidies to 269,000
children (age 0-6) inpoor families and i s expected to benefit a total o f one million children. The subsidies
were provided to poor families in cash, conditional on their children's attendance at the Programa de
Crecimiento y Desarrollo (Growth and Development Program), which includes vaccination and nutrition
monitoring.

64.      Recently completed impact evaluations show that DPT (diphtheria,                                pertussis, tetanus)
vaccinations were 12 percent higher among children whose families received the cash subsidy than
among the control group. The health subsidy has also been shown to have considerable impact on the
level and composition o f children's diets. Inparticular, children whose families received the subsidy were
 17 percent more likely to consume vegetables, nine percent more likely to consume eggs, and ten percent
more likely to consume meat relative to comparable children whose families did not receive the subsidy.
Moreover, anthropometricalmeasures o f severe malnutritionhave beenlowered significantly.

65.      Improved quality of services. One o f the main goals o f Law 100 o f 1993, which reformed the
Colombian health sector, was to improve the quality o f health services. To attain this goal, the GOC
passed Decree 2309 o f 2002, "Quality Guarantee" (Garantia de Calidad), which seeks to ensure the
quality o f health services. The decree defines the National Health Superintendent                              as the entity
responsible for providing licenses to EPSs and the state (departamento) and district health directorates for
providing licenses to the IPSs and for establishing the standards for acquiring these licenses. The MSP
defines the standards, mechanisms and procedures for the licensing and accreditation.

66.      In the case of health care providers (ISPs), the MSP has defined the quality standards through
Resolution 1439 o f October 2002. The standards are set by activity typehospital ward (e.g. cardiology,
orthopedics etc.). The Ministryo f Health's strategy has beento call on all health care providers to survey
their services, using its standardized questionnaire, and to report the results to the MSP. Based on the
report, ifthe services comply with the above-mentioned standards, IPSs will be licensed. Otherwise, they
will not be allowed to operate until the standard has been met. Ina second stage, the Health Secretariats
(Secretarias de Salud) will randomly visit a sample o f all providers to verify the information provided. In
this process, the Secretariats will licensethose units that have improvedtheir services and have complied
with the standards. They will close down those providers that have reported wrong information. The MSP
is currently preparing a regulatory decree to establish the quality standards for insurers.

 67.     The implementation o f this quality assurance system will be completed by a more adequate
client-oriented health information system to allow people to make informed choices regarding insurers



                                                           15

and health care providers. One o f the actions supported by the SECAL was the dissemination o f
information regarding the performance o f EPSs, Administradoras del Regimen Subsidiado (Insurance
Entities o f Subsidized Regimes, ARSs), public hospitals and Health Secretariats by the Health
Superintendent. Such dissemination mainly occurs via the Intemet (using the web page o f the
Superintendent) and uses financial indices regarding the above-mentioned institutions. Going a step
further, the MSP plans to introduce a more widely accessible information system and to measure other
indicators. The extended system will rank insurers, hospitals, and Health Secretariats using consumer-
friendly criteria (waiting time to be servedtreated, politeness o f individuals attending the cliendpatient,
availability o f supplies, overall responsiveness, etc.). Such informationwould be made easily available to
the general public.

68.       Further transformation of supply to demand subsidies. Law 715 o f 2001 mandates the re-
initiation o f the transformation o f supply to demand subsidies in 2003. The law stipulates that the
distribution o f the national transfers to the territorial entities for the health sector between Subsidized
Regime membership and direct financing o f public hospital budgets will remain the same for two years
after the law has been approved. By December 2003, the National Council o f Social Security in Health
(ConsejoNacional de Seguridad Social en Salud, CNSSS) is expected to define the level and pace o f the
transformation from supply to demand subsidy.22

69.       Expansion of Subsidized Regime aflliation. As clearly indicated above, completion o f the health
reform will depend on the expansion o f membership in the Subsidized Regime. The government plans to
continue expansion to the extent feasible, financially and p ~ l i t i c a l l y .Early in 2003, the MSP estimated
                                                                                  ~ ~
the number o f potential new affiliates inthe Subsidized Regime, based on highly optimistic assumptions
including rapid GDP growth, especially for the year 2006, and a seven percent increase inthe number o f
affiliates inthe Contributory Regime for 2003, which depends on highemployment growth (see Table 4).

70.       NoJinancial bailout policy for public hospitals. The GOC and the MSP have adopted a policy
that no additional resources will be allocatedto bail out public hospitals infinancial deficit. As discussed,
public hospitals under the health reform program are supposed to finance themselves with payments from
contracts with health insurers and from                  contracts   signed between public hospitals             and
departments/municipalitiesfor the provision of specific services for the poor who are eligible but not yet
actually covered by the Subsidized Regime (Vinculados). Law 715 stipulates that Departments are
responsible for the financing o f public hospitals. These service providers however, are supposed to be


''Departments     are responsible for financing hospitals, while municipalities are responsible for increasing health
insurance coverage by the Subsidized Regime. The distribution of resources between health insurance affiliation
subsidy and direct public hospital financing is based on the number of affiliates and of Vinculados. The allocation
for healthinsurancecoverage is expectedto cover the Unidad de Pagopor Capitacidn (Risk Adjustment Premium,
UPCs) of the currently affiliated population and of a predeterminednumber of new affiliates. On the other hand,
resources destined for the financing of public hospitals are calculated basedon the estimatednumber of Vinculados
ineach department.
23  There are a number of sources through which the MSP receives resources for increasing affiliation in the
Subsidized Regime. As can be seen in Table 4, additional affiliation can be financed through the increase of the
Sistema General de Participaciones (General System of Participations, SGP), the transformation of `supply' to
`demand subsidies', the reduction of evasion and illusion in the Contributory Regime and the adjustment of the
health care benefit package of the SubsidizedRegime. Additionally, the MSP would like to use existing resources
accumulatedinthe Solidarityaccount of FOSYGA (HealthCare Sector Fund) that havebeen frozen by the Ministry
of Finance. This account forms part of the national budget and thus i s subject to its rules and ceilings limiting the
amount ofresourcesthat couldbe usedto increase affiliation inthe SubsidizedRegimeevery fiscal year. At present,
the Solidarityaccount appears to have accumulatedreserves of COPs$852.000million, while by the end of 2003 it
i s expected to reach COPs$l.OOO.OOO million.


                                                          16

paid based on contracts signed with those territorial entities.24 The "no bailout policy" should pushpublic
hospitals to be efficient and to compete for signed health service provision contracts with the EPSs,
ARSs, and regional governments.

            Table 4: Some ofthe assumptionsmadefor calculatingthe funds for increasing
                                       affiliationinthe subsidizedregime

  Assumptions                                                   2002        2003       2004     2005    2006
  IncreaseofGDP (real)                                         2.0%         2.5%       3.5%     3.5%    3.9%
  Inflation                                                    6.2%         6.0%       5.0%     4.0%    4.0%
  Increaseof SGP resourcesfor health                           2.0%         2.0%       2.0%     2.0%    2.5%
  Increaseofaffiliatesof Contributory Regimeby                              7.0%       2.0%     2.0%    2.0%
  increase in employment
  Increaseofaffiliatesof Contributory Regimeby                              6.0%       3.0%     3.0%    3.0%
      controlofevasionand illusion
            Source: Ministryof Social Protection, 2003.

71.      Reform of the Social Security Institute (ISS). Steps have been taken to control ISS's huge and
chronic financial deficit, but much more needs to be done. The GOC intends to further reform the ISS,
realizing that its deficit is crowding out funds that otherwise could be used for the expansion o f the
affiliation o f poor families into the ARSs or some other more worthy programs. The administration i s
seeking feasible ways o f avoiding further bailouts of ISS.25

72.       The ISS has established five main reform objectives: (i)finding a financial equilibrium; (ii)
increasing the number of its affiliates; (iii)  developing an information system; (iv) improving its hospital
network; and (v) using its resources efficiently. A number o f actions that occurred in 2002 are expected
to yield a total savings o f COPs$147,265 million (2002 pesos). These actions include:              closing 22
ambulatory health care centers (CAA); the transfer o f specific units from more to less expensive areas;
and the termination o f 2,200 contracts o f ISS employees as o f the end o f August 2002 (Table 5). The
Institute is also undertaking several activities besides those mentioned, including:

          (a)      Collaboration in the development o f a CONPES document offering alternatives to the
                   Institute's structural problems;
          (b)      Decrease o f the Sectional Management's Offices (Gerencias Seccionales) from 61 to 28;
          (c)      Selection by merit o f 17 out of the 28 managers o f the Sectional Offices;
          (d)      Signinga contract for the evaluation o f the viability o f aprivate management scheme in
                   the hospital Misael PastranainBogoti; and
          (e)      Diagnostic o f ISS health issues.




24The only exceptionto this rule is some decentralizedmunicipalities,where the municipalityreceivesthe resources
to finance first-levelhospitals.
*'The    Government has transferred a total of COPs$1,000,000 million to ISS. The first part was given to the
Institute in December 2001 and the secondpart in December2002. The ISS has usedthis money to pay salaries and
pensions for its employees; to pay for services provided by others to ISS affiliates in the past; and to fund
emergencies,medicines,hospitalconsumablesandother expenditures.




                                                        17

       Table 5: 2002 Actions to restructureISS and financingimpact (million of 2002 COPS)

    Type of Action                                                                     Financingimpact(2003)
    Closingof 22 ambulatoryhealthcare centers                                                             3,3 84
    Transfer of services to less expensive areasibuildings                                                3,035
    Elimination of medicinenot includedin POS                                                            3 1,405
    Terminationof 2,200 contractsof ISS employeesby August 30,2002                                       31,541
    Savings in expenditure andcontract bidding procedures                                                61,000
    Reductionofother expenditures                                                                         16,900
    Total                                                                                               147,265
           Source: ISS presentationto the World Bank mission on February 19,2003.

73.      Transparency and Social Control. The DNP has made progress in the evaluation of several
social programs, including Familias en Accidn, Empleo en Accidn and Jdvenes en Accidn. These
evaluations have been important not only for estimating the impacts o f the interventions, but also for
demonstratingthe value o f undertaking such evaluations to the government. A presentation givenby DNP
to the President o f the Republic regarding impact evaluation was met with such enthusiasm that the MSP
i s planning to institutionalize an evaluation system, where impact evaluations are conducted every few
years on the MSP programs.

74.      Partly as a result o f this experience, the GOC intends to implement mechanisms to enforce
systemic evaluations o f program impact and cost. Following up on the CONPES on evaluation, the GOC
plans to make such evaluation obligatory, at least for all major social programs and possibly for all public
investments. International experience indicates that a law making it obligatory to evaluate the results and
costs o f public programs is a key factor in the development o f results-based management, a culture o f
transparency, and social accountability.

75.      To complement the above measure, the DNP has decided to encourage citizens' oversight and
monitoring. This i s consistent with the GOC's goal o f promoting social audits, recognizing that when
carried out by citizens, these are the most effective instruments against corruption, and for improving
efficiency, coverage, and quality o f public service delivery. Social audit mechanisms would be organized
at the national level, and would involve participation by chambers o f commerce, universities and other
education institutions, trade unions, and communities. An existing example o f a social audit, which will
be used to guide efforts in this area, is the Como Vamos model, Bogoth's participatory monitoring and
evaluation system.

111.     The ProposedProgramand Operations

A.       Linkswith the Bank's AssistanceStrategy

76.     As described inthe 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board of Directors
on January 19, 2003 the Bank's strategy focuses on three goals: (i)fast and sustainable growth; (ii)
quality government institutions; and (iii)      sharing the fruits o f growth. Achievement o f these goals will
strengthenthe foundation for peace and the possibility for conflict resolution. As noted, violent conflict is
Colombia's greatest challenge at present. To support this strategy, the Bank lendingprogram envisioned
inthe CAS focuses on operations that would: (i) the most tangible impact onpoverty alleviation; (ii)
                                                       have
achieve fast and sustainable growth while protecting the poor; (iii)          incorporate the lessons learned from
the Bank's operations, particularly from on-going Learning and Innovative Loans; and (iv) pilot
innovative interventions with important demonstration effects.




                                                          18

77.    The PLaRSSAL will directly contribute to achieving the CAS objectives ina variety o fways:

       a. Economic growth. For faster and sustained economic growth, Colombia needs to increase
           employment o f workers and total factor productivity growth. The labor reforms supported by
           the PLaRSSAL would contribute to increased employment. Moreover, the education and
           training reforms advanced by the government and nurtured by these operations would
           increase the pace o f the country's human capital accumulation and push the private sector
           productivity towards the technological frontier. In the Bank's report, Closing the Gap in
           Education and Technology (2003), these two conditions are deemed necessary for sustained
           and rapideconomic growth inthe technologically changing global economy.

       b. Building quality government. The PLaRSSAL would contribute to the development of quality
           govemment by supporting reforms intended to promote the transparency, social
           accountability, coordination, and rationalization o f key social programs and institutions (e.g.
           MSP, ICBF, SENA, and MEN). In addition, the operations would enhance the participation
           o f Colombia's citizens and the ability o f beneficiaries to make choices and informed
           decisions. Such actions are expected to reduce inefficiencies and improve relations between
           the Colombians andtheir govemment.

       c. Sharing the fruits of growth. The labor, education, training, social assistance, and health
           reforms supported by PLaRSSAL would obviously enhance the ability o f all people,
           especially the poor, to share inthe fruits o f economic growth. Employment is the single most
           important source o f income for poor people. Hence, reforms that would reduce
           unemployment and underemployment as well as raise employment in the formal sector are
           likely to lower poverty and improve income equality. It can also be argued that improved
           cost-effectiveness and targeting o f ICBF and SENA programs to low-income people (called
           for by PLaRSSAL) would reduce welfare inequality. Moreover, a movement towards
           universal access to good quality basic education and health services promoted by PLaRSSAL
           would, o f course, favor lower income children.

78.    Linkage Between the PLaRSSAL and other Bank Operations. The PLaRSSAL would
continue, deepen, and expand the reform agenda supported by the recently-completed SECAL operation.
The proposed operations are a key part o f the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in support o f the
GOC's efforts to raise the rate o f human capital accumulation, expand employment, and strengthen
Colombia's social protection system. Bank operations that complement the PLaRSSAL include, among
others:

           SECAL Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The ICR, which gives a "Satisfactory"
           overall performance rating for the loan, firmly laid the ground-work for the new
           administration to continue, strengthen, and extend reforms aimed at increasing the pace o f
           human capital accumulation and the development o f a more comprehensive and efficient
           social protection system. The following lessons leamed from the ICR have been taken into
           account in the preparation o f this operation: (i)focusing on high priority loan conditions; (ii)
           the value o f ensuring solid analytical foundation for the operation; (iii)govemment
           ownership or buy-in o f the policy matrix; (iv) strong sectoral collaboration; and (v)
           consultations with experts and stakeholders outside the government.

           Education investment loans. These operations include the recently approved Higher
           Education- Improving Access Project and the Cundinamarca Education Quality Improvement
           Project scheduled for Board presentation this fiscal year. The former aims to increase



                                                    19

             enrollment in higher education; while the latter intends to reform Cundinamarca's education
             system to increase its efficiency, basic education coverage, and quality. Cundinamarca, it is
             hoped, would be a model o f how a territorial entity can better use its resources and authority
             underthe amended decentralizationlaw (Law 715).

             Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Program (FIAL). This program seeks to:
             (i)promote reforms addressing fiscal rigidities necessary to attain the substantial fiscal
             adjustment underlying sustainable macroeconomic stability; (ii)improve the provision o f
             public services; and (iii)establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and
             accountability in public expenditure. The emphasis o f the reform program, as described in
             the recently approved FIAL I,i s initially on tax and fiscal responsibility; gradually, it will
             shift to expenditure and public sector reform during the second and third years of the
             program. These objectives are the backbone o f the government's broad program o f reforms,
             which includes significant policy actions to increase the mobilization o f resources to the
             public sector, improve critical public administration processes, and enhance the efficiency
             and effectiveness o f key government institutions. The FIAL I1will focus on, among other
             issues, incentives for efficiency gains in education and increasing transparency in
             management contracts within the MSP, namely in ICBF and SENA.                     Part o f the
             govemment's commitment under FIAL i s the reallocation o f part o f the income from
             royalties to education and resources under Law 21. Actions to increase transparency in
             management contracts are proposed to begin with a concept proposal o f the approach and the
             scope o f this action.

             Investments in Social Safety Net (RAS) program. The Bank currently finances the Human
             Capital Protection Project and Community Works and Employment Project. As mentioned,
             the latter is a workfare program that supports community projects to create opportunities for
             temporary employment for the poor unemployed workers. The former provides cash transfers
             to extremely poor families conditional on their children's enrollment in basic education and
             visits to health centers for basic care.

             Other related investment operations.      An innovative lending operation currently under
             preparation that would complement the PLaRSSAL i s the Peace and Development Project.
             This project would assist communities inplanning and implementing their own strategies for
             development in the context o f violence and conflict. Moreover, for the next and following
             years, the CAS includes preparation o f the Health Investment Project.

             Analytical and Advisory Assistance. In consultation with the GOC, several analytical pieces
             were prepared by the Bank which have informed its lending operations and GOC strategy,
             including: (i)Colombia Poverty Assessment (Report # 12673-C0), (ii)          Social Safety Net
             Assessment (Report # 22255-C0), (iii)Colombia:          the Economic Foundation of Peace
             (2003), (iv) Skills Development in Colombia (on-going), and (v) Social Sector Efficiency
             programmatic analytical work on education and hospitals (on-going).

79.      Complementarities with Other Institutions' Operations. The GOC i s working closely with
the IMF, IDB, and the World Bank in the preparation o f operations, and carefully coordinating the
activities inorder to avoid duplication and inconsistencies inthe institutions' programs. The IMFsigneda
Stand-by Agreement with the GOC in January 2003. The GOC i s monitoring this closely and to ensure
that proposed Bank and IDBprograms meet the IMF criteria.

80.      The GOC has and continues to carefully coordinate the IDB and the Bank programs that support
the reform o f the social sectors, while the Bank and IDB teams themselves have developed a close


                                                     20

working relationship on labor and social sector reform issues. Collaboration inthe implementation o f the
R A S program, which i s financed in parallel by both banks, remains strong. A single monitoring and
evaluation model o f the R A S program is being utilized by the GOC regardless o f the financier o f the
program. Moreover, the teams regularly consult each other regarding the current administration's social
sector reformprogram, which boththe Bank and the IDB support. At this time, the IDB is assisting inthe
implementation o f the social sector reform program through its recently approved Social Emergency
Program (US$1.25 billion) and its on-going Fiscal Sustainability Loan (US$400 million), which focuses
on: (i) macroeconomic stability, (ii) protection o f key social programs in education, health, and
                                         budget
social assistance, and (iii)  social sector efficiency and equity in several key programs.        The Bank's
PLaRSSAL puts less emphasis on items (i) instead
                                               and (ii), supporting other areas o f the administration's
labor and social sector reform agenda.

B.      ProgramObjectivesandDescriptionof the Program

81,     Objectives. The PLaRSSAL supports the general govemment objective o f promoting higher
employment, increased human capital formation, and strengthened social protection, especially o f the
poor and vulnerable. This objective would be achieved through more efficient and equitable use o f social
sector resources, improvedregulatory environment andbetter institutionalpractices.

82.     The specific objectives, that the current administration seeks to attain with PLaRSSAL assistance,
are detailed in Table 6, which also presents corresponding performance indicators. These have been
selected to be as close as possible to outcome measures. Monitoring o f these indicators will be used to
track progress and provide data for the Implementation Completion Reports. The expected outcomes o f
the program, usingthese indicators, are giveninthe last column ofAnnex I.

83.     The strategy to attain those objectives consists of, among others:

        (a)      Reduction in the cost o f employment and training, especially o f the poor and young
                 workers, through the implementation o f labor reforms under Law 789;

        (b)      Development o f a comprehensive and integrated skills development strategy and
                 modernization o f SENA functions, responsibilities, and use o f resources;

        (c)      Increased efficiency in the use o f education resources through the sustained and full
                 application o f a system for education resource transfers based on enrollment, as provided
                 for inLaw 715;

         (d)     Establishment o f information systems and reorganization o f the educational systems o f
                 territorial entities, necessary to support the implementation o f the educationprovisions o f
                 Law 715 intendedto improve efficiency and equity;

         (e)     Greater transparency and better social control o f publicly funded social services,
                 including:

                 o Regular measurement o f student learning achievement in all schools and public
                      dissemination o f results;

                 o Strengthening the application o f current regulations regarding the licensing of health
                     providers and insurersto inform clients about the quality o f their services;




                                                       21

     o Promotion o f results-based management and periodic, rigorous evaluation o f the
         major social programs; and systematic measurement o f costs; and citizens'
         monitoringand oversight o f these programs; and

     o Development of a system o f evaluation o f teachers' performance, as provided for in
         Law 715;

(0   Development and pilot testing o f incentive schemes to improve teachers' performance;

(g)  Advance towards the completion o f the healthcare reform, Le.,

     o    Expansion o f the population affiliated with the Subsidized Regime (health
         insurance); and

     o Measures to deepen the hospital restructuring to facilitate the transition towards
         demand-based financing o f public hospitals and expansion o f the Subsidized Regime
         coverage;

(h)  Advancement of the development o f a comprehensive Social Risk Management System
     for Colombia that i s efficient and ready to assist the vulnerable intimes o f crisis and help
     the structural poor innormal times, including

     o The development o f the Ministryo f Social Protection into an effective backbone o f
         an integrated social protection system, able to shape, coordinate and oversee the
         various social protection policies, programs, and their implementation;

     o Better targeting and streamlining o f ICBF, SENA and other social assistance
         programs; and

     o Increasedvaccination towarduniversal coverage

(i)  Encouragement o f the use o f private providers through competitive contracts, vouchers,
     and other innovative schemes to improve efficiency and effectiveness in education,
     training, and social assistance.




                                          22

                       Objectives                                           PerformanceIndicators
A. Institution of an effective authority in charge of           Effectively functioning MSP
developing a comprehensive social risk management
system to provide efficient and timely protection o f the
poor and vulnerable against the threats and consequences
o f illness, unemployment,       poverty, and economic
volatility.
B.Greater accessofpoor children to ICBF Assistance and          Number o f SISBEN 1 and 2 children benefiting from ICBF
Prevention programs through the establishement o f an           Assistance and Prevention Programs, by program
explicit targeting policy and practices to ensuretheir cost-    Studies showing positive impact o f said programs on child
effectiveness.                                                  nutrition and development
C. Achievement o f at least 95 percent Expanded Program         PAI immunizationrate o f 0-5 year olds
o f Immunization (PAI) coverage rate o f 0-5 year old           Number o f children with immunization cards
children by 2006.
D. More advancesin the implementation of health system          Number o f newly affiliated poor persons in the subsidized
reform, fkrther expanding health insurance coverage o f         health insurance regime in 2002-2006
the poor, reducing direct subsidy to public hospitals, and      Decline in direct public hospital subsidy as a percentage o f
ensuring quality of services o f health insurers and care       health budget
providers.                                                      Percentage o f health care providers and insurers in compliance
                                                                with MSP quality o f service standards

E. Implementation of labor and training reforms to reduce       Reduction in the cost o f labor regulations (possibly, expressed
the wedge between employers' hiringitraining cost and           inestimated number ofjobs created)
workers' acceptable wage, while improving the social            Number     o f  hard-to-employ     workers   hired   under   the
protection o f vulnerable workers.                              "parafiscales waiver" provision o f Article 13 o f Law 789
                                                                Increase in the number o f apprentices and workers trained due
                                                                to the provisiono f Articles 30-38 o f Law 789
                                                                Number o f firms approved by SENA to provide their own
                                                                training
                                                                Number o f workers trained in said firms
                                                                Number o f training program graduates subsidized by SENA per
                                                                payroll tax
                                                                Percentageo f SENA payroll tax resources devoted to training of
                                                                the unemployed


F. Acceleration of education reforms to provide accessto        Net education enrollment rate: by level
good quality education, especially to basic and secondary       secondary)
schools.                                                        Increase in basic and secondary education enrollment
                                                                Increase in studentiteacher ratio
                                                                Increase inbasic education quality
                                                                a.   Application o f student learning achievement testing
                                                                b.   Teacher performance indicators (to be developed)
                                                                C.   Rate o f adoption o f innovative and effective pedagogical
                                                                     methods
G. Greater transparency and social control o f social           Number o f major social programs with impact and cost
programs through their periodic evaluation and greater          evaluation
participatory oversight by citizens.                            Number o f national social programs with Como Vumos?
                                                                monitoring and social control




                                                              23

C.       The ProposedOperation

84.      Two programmatic structural adjustment loans are being proposed to support the above-
mentioned labor and social sector reform program. Annex Ipresents an overview o f the medium-term
program.

85.        Buildingon the SECAL, the first PLaRSSAL operation -henceforthreferredto as "PLaRSSAL I
- focuses on the approval and the initial operationalization o f the recently passed labor reforms and the
acceleration o f the implementation o f the education, health, and social protection reforms, in accordance
with Laws 789 and 715 respectively. The full policy matrix i s provided inAnnex I.

86.      The PLaRSSAL Ifocuses specifically on:

         (i)      Greater efficiency in job skills formation and the labor market. The operation would
support the development o f regulatory decrees enabling the implementation o f Law 789. These
regulations will provide incentives to employment for vulnerable groups (the young, the elderly, disabled
individuals, and unemployed household heads), re-allocate tied funds (from the Cajas de Compensacion)
to employment creation and unemployment protection programs, and increase coverage and privatization
o f the apprenticeship system. Moreover, the PLaRSSAL Iwould promote the modernization o f SENA,
starting with increasing its internal efficiency (e.g. reductiono f overhead costs) and improving the impact
o f its courses on workers' wages. The expected outcomes is a greater employment and wages o f workers
in"vulnerable" groups andanincrease inthe number of SENA graduates.

          (ii)    Quality and coverage improvements in the education sector. Implementation o f the
regulatory and budgetary frameworks encouraged by the SECAL would be promoted by the proposed
operation. The PLaRSSAL Iwould support these specific outcomes: (i)           an increase in enrollments from
betteruse of educationresources and, hence, a rise inthe student-to-teacher ratio; and (ii)   improvement in
student learning achievement. These improvements will be achieved through a more efficient deployment
o f the teaching staff and better targeting o f educational resources resultingfrom the testing o f all students
ingrades 5 and9.26

          (iii)   Increased coverage, efficiency, and targeting of social protection programs, including
the health sector and ICBF. The concept o f a comprehensive social risk management system was
introduced in the SECAL. The next step, which is supported by this operation, is to: (a) improve
targeting o f health and early childhood (ICBF) services-both        o f which have large budgets and wide
coverage, but do not effectively reach the most vulnerable populations; and (b) evaluate ICBF programs
credibly, laying the groundwork for a more efficient and strategic use o f its resources. The outputs to be
measured are budget allocations, regulatory decrees, and evidence o f increased coverage, specifically in
the Subsidized Regime program.

87.       Category of agreed actions: definitions. There is a set o f "prior actions'' for PLaRSSAL Iand
another set o f "prior actions" for PLaRSSAL 11; each set o f prior actions must be complied for approval
and disbursement o f each loan. The "prior actions" for the PLaRSSAL I1consists o f two categories:
First, "triggers" are those actions necessary for the Bank to proceed with the preparation o f PLaRSSAL 11.
Second, "non-trigger" actions complement the triggers and will be included in the final "prior actions"
matrix for the PLaRSSAL I1loan. The "prior actions" for the each loan are legally bindingconditions for
Board approval and disbursement, and are written into each operations' respective Loan Agreement. The
"triggers," on the other hand, are essential actions to determine whether or not to proceedwith the second


26The matrix specifies coverage oftesting at 90 percent. One hundredpercent coverage was deemed unrealistic by
the Ministry of Education(MEN)due to the inabilityofthe MENto reach students living inconflict areas.


                                                       24

operation but only become bindingupon their inclusion inthe Loan Agreement for PLaRSSAL 11. Since
waiver o f these "trigger" commitments would require validjustification and explanation to the Board, the
triggers have been selected for their importance, feasibility and ownership by the GOC and the sectors
responsible for their implementation.

D.      SubsequentOperations

88.     The Second PLaRSSAL.The second operation-henceforth referredto as the PLaRSSAL I1-is
envisioned as an extension o f the PLaRSSAL actions and the GOC's reform agenda by deepening and
widening o f the implementation o f the labor and social sector reform agenda described previously. The
conditions in the second operation are designed to be more output/outcome oriented. The same broad
themes that would be addressedinthe PLaRSSAL Iwould againbe the focus o f the second operation (see
Annex Ifor details):

        (a)      ICBF Furtheringthe ICBF objectives of the PLaRSSAL I,the second operation would
        require achievement o f quantitative targets regarding the use o f ICBF services by poor families
        and impact and cost evaluation studies to provide recommendations on the consolidation and
        streamlining o f ICBF programs.

        (b)      Health. The second operation continues the immunization program with specific targets;
        implements the decree (agreed in PLaRSSAL          r>requiring an immunization card for children
        enrolling in schools; and extends the Subsidized Regime to even more poor people. In addition,
        the PLaRSSAL I1 would include actions in two new areas:             enhanced credibility o f health
        reform-by     licensing hospitals and EPSs, and capping the public resources allocated directly to
        public hospitals (to further advance the transform o f supply-side subsidies to the demand-side).

        (c)      Labor and SENA. Continuing the efforts from the PLaRSSAL I,the second PLaRSSAL
        would support more complete implementation o f the labor law. Regarding SENA, efficiency
        improvements in short courses would continue and the implementation o f the Action Plan for the
        modernization o f SENA would be initiated. This would be supported by updating SENA's
        information systems for impact evaluation, managerial accounting, andjob search. Indeveloping
        the Action Plan based on the a CONPES, the GOC will consider the use of private training
        providers for publicly financed skills development programs, as mandated by the regulations
        implementedinthe Labor ReformLaw 789/02,which is supportedbythe PLaRSSAL I.

         (d)     Education. The expansion o f coverage in basic and secondary schools continues in the
         second operation. The MENcommits to enrolling 200,000 new students, a further increase inthe
         student-to-teacher ratio, and the expansion o f innovative methods to expand coverage to hard-to-
        reach students. Quality enhancements are again supported, with the enactment o f the teacher re-
        organization plan, further expansion o f testing students ingrades 5 and 9 to allow better targeting
        o f educational resources to improve student leaming, and implementation o f teacher performance
        evaluations.

         (e)     Transparency and citizens ' oversight. Two important triggers would be included at this
         stage.  First, the operation would encourage the establishment o f enforceable government
        mechanisms requiringperiodic impact evaluations o f major social programs. Second, a system
        for public feedback on social programs, similar to Bogoti's Como Vamos model, would be
         implementedfor national programs.

89.      To ensure the programmatic nature o f the operation, eight actions in the policy matrix for the
PLaRSSAL I1were identifiedas triggers for preparation o f the second operation. Compliance with these



                                                     25

triggers allows for the preparation of the second operation. These triggers, which become pre-Board
conditions once the operationi s underpreparation, are given inAnnex I.

90.     Fiscal Commitments. As mentioned, within its macroeconomic framework, the GOC signed a
new Stand-By loan agreement with the IMF in the amount o f SDR1.5 billion for the next two years.
Achieving the structural benchmarks o f the agreement will constitute an overarching policy trigger for the
PLaRSSAL I.Some o f the targets o f the IMF-backed program for 2003 are a consolidated non-financial
public sector deficit o f 2.5 percent o f GDP, a current account deficit o f 0.8 percent o f GDP, and an
inflationrate between five and six percent.

E.      LoanAmount, Conditions, and Fiduciaryand SafeguardPolicies

91.     Loan Amount and Disbursements.The two PLaRSSAL operations are proposed for a total of
$350 million. The first (US$200 million), which would be in the form o f a fixed spread, U.S.-dollar-
denominated loan, would be made to the Republic o f Colombia. Disbursements under the proposed loan
would be made to an account (Deposit Account) o f the Republic o f Colombia, established at the Banco de
la Republica for this purpose. As mentioned, the loan will be disbursed in one tranche upon Board
approval. This tranche arrangement has been designed with the government and reflects its and the
Bank's assessment o f the necessary timing for implementing the proposed conditions. Aside from
financial pressures due to an urgent financing gap, the timing o f the loan is calibrated to support the
government in its efforts to continue the momentum o f the SECAL and the momentum o f the social
sector reform. The current administration i s pushing vigorously this reform with the newly created
Ministry o f Social Protectionand Ministry o f Education as catalysts.

92.     Prior Actions (Conditions). Nine actions were identified for the first operation (detailed in
Annex I):

        d. Establishment o f the Ministry o f Social Protection (MSP) by merging the Labor and Health
             Ministries and putting under its responsibility autonomous agencies funded by earmarked
             payroll taxes including SENA, ISS and ICBF;

        e.   ICBF Board Agreement: (i)     establishing a policy targeting ICBF Assistance and Prevention
             programs' benefits to SISBEN 1 and 2 children; and (ii)    mandating ICBF management to (a)
             develop methodologies by March 2004 to estimate the share o f those benefits going to such
             children; (b) establish by September 2004 quantitative targets to increase said share (based on
             agreed methodology) for 2004-2006; and (c) establish by March 2004 a system for
             monitoring the above-mentioned share and disseminating such information to the public;

        f. Signed Memorandum of understanding committing ICBF and DNP to the evaluation of
             impact and cost o f its nutrition and other selected major programs, in accordance with the
             agreed time line for the period 2003-2006;

        g. Sustained government support of Expanded Immunization Program (PAI) recovery, as
            evidenced by: (i)a certification by both the Ministry o f Social Protection and Ministry o f
             Finance that the budget allocation for the PA1for the year 2003 i s sufficient for achieving the
             95% coverage target in 2006; and (ii)  Presidential decree requiringan immunization card for
            enrolled children in public and private schools and child-care centers, including hogares
            comunitarios;




                                                     26

          h. Additional progress inthe implementation of the healthreform (Law 100/93), as evidenced
               by the extension o f the Subsidized Regime coverage in a 12 month period (July 2002-July
               2003) by 300,000 new affiliates;

          i. Approval of           Law 789 and issuance of appropriate regulatory decrees27 to permit
               implementation of: (a) Article 13 o f Law 789 o f 2002, which waives the payment o f
               parafiscales (SENA, ICBF, Cujus de Compensucion) for hard to employ groups, including
               those age 16-25, older than age 50, household heads who are unemployed, and disabled
               workers, (b) Articles 6-11 o f Law 789 o f 2002 which regulate the reform o f the Cujus de
                Compensacion, and (c) Articles 12,30-38 o f Law 789 o f 2002, which expands the number o f
               services providers to include private firms, flexibilizes the training system by allowing firms
               to fund their own training rather than going through SENA, and expands the pool o f
               apprentices that firms may hire by allowing firms to hire individuals from any (post)
               secondary school or training program;

          j.   Improved SENA efficiency, as evidencedby an increase inthe number o f SENA short-course
               graduates by 50% (in the period August 2002-July 2003 as compared to August 2001-July
               2002) withinthe resource envelope providedby 2003 General Budget Law;

          k. Increasedbasic and secondary net enrollments by at least 300,000 new students (July 2002 to
               June 2003) and inthe student-to-teacher ratio by one student per teacher from 2002 to 2003;
               and

          1.   Continued progress in the implementation o f the education provisions o f Law 715, as
               evidenced by: (i)approved and signed Presidential Decree enabling the reorganization o f

              Iteachers and education system (accounting o f teachers, sanctions against absenteeism, etc.);
               and (ii)  testing o f student leaming achievement in grades 5 and 9 applied in at least 90% o f
               municipalities (all students) inmath and languages, verified by an official document issues by
               MEN.

93.       Triggers. Eight actions are identifiedas triggers for preparation o f the second operation. These
actions are listed inbold inthe column "Second PLaRSSAL I1Prior Actions" inAnnex I,since they will
be among the prior actions for the second operation. The triggers are:

          m. Increased number of new children younger than 6 years old from families of SISBEN 1 and 2
               benefitingfrom ICBF nutritionalprograms by 300,000 inthe period 2003-2004;

          n. Evidence that evaluation of at least two of the major programs inthe policy document is in
               progress;

          0. Achievement o f coverage o f at least 90% DPT, 95% Triple Viral, and 90% polio (levels as o f
               2003);

          p. Extension o f the Subsidized Regime coverage in a 12 month period (August 2003 - August
               2004) by 500,000 new affiliates;

          q. Approved CONPE,Sand Planof Action for the Comprehensive Job Training Strategy;


21 The law supports employment, expands social protection, and modifies articles in the labor code with the purpose of creating
incentives for firms to employ additional workers and providing safety nets for the unemployed. Only a subset of the Articles
listed inthe law needto be regulated; those that need specific regulationsare Articles 6, 7, 10-13,30, and32.


                                                                27

         r. Increasedbasic andsecondary net enrollmentsby at least 500,000 new students;

         s.  Application o f the regulatory decree in accordance with Law 715, Article 5, Section 5.8
             regarding the evaluation o f teacher performance and testing o f student learning achievement
             in grade 9 covering competency in citizenship and science, in at least 90% of the
             municipalities; and

         t.  Implementation o f the "Bogotb Como Vamos" model intwo national programs inaccordance
             with agreed list to be providedby DNP.

94.      Procurement and FinancialAdministration. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) was carried out in September 1998. As a result o f its recommendations, the Office o f the
Accountant General and public accounting institutions have been strengthened. Currently, the Public
Sector financial management is under review.        A new CFAA is in process and is expected to be
completed in the first half o f FY 2004. This new CFAA will raise the questions of: (ii) the current
                                                                                           how
state o f public financial management in Colombia affects the country's efforts to stimulate economic
growth; and (ii)  what measures should be taken to improve the current state o f financial management in
the country. The CFAA team is working closely with the Financial and Institutional Adjustment Loan
(FIAL) team, which will incorporate several relevant policy actions within the policy matrix of that
program. With regard to the PLaRSSAL, the regional financial management team (LCOAA) will advise
with regard to the audit o f the depository account at the Central Bank, and on any other issues relevantto
the PLaRSSAL that come to their attention during the CFAA pr0cess.A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) was prepared in March 2001. The report found that for Bank-assisted
projects, with few exceptions, procurement was carried out in accordance with Bank policies and
procedures, and procurement performance under these projects has generally been satisfactory and free o f
major problems. Two procurement audits and four agency procurement capacity assessments carried out
inthe last two years have found no major problems and determined that the procurement risk inBank
projects was lower than average. However, the CPAR found that public procurement and contract
management had deficiencies that could be a source o f corruption. The findings and recommendations o f
the CPAR to strengthen public procurement were discussed and agreed inprinciple.

95.      The Bank is currently financing the implementation o fthe MAFPIIproject, which is ajoint effort
o f MHCP, DNP, and DIAN. Among its key objectives are the modernization o f the public procurement
process (including legal reform), review and reform o f the budget process, implementation o f financial
management informationsystems, and support to government accounting. Moreover, the policy matrices
o f the FIAL programmatic operations include measures designed to improve Colombia's public sector
procurement and financial management practices over time. All o f these efforts indicate the interest o f the
Bank in ensuring that the public sector in Colombia has adequate fiduciary practices in place to manage
adjustment loans and other government resources.

96.      Environmental and Other Safeguard Policies. As a structural adjustment program, the
proposed operation does not trigger OP 4.01, and, as a consequence, does not require an environmental
rating. The Quality Assurance Team (QAT) reviewed the Program Document for the operation and
determinedthat it didnot have a direct effect on safeguard issues.

97.      Fiscal Impact. The program i s within the CAS mandated FY 2004 limit for lending to
Colombia.    The reform program is intended to increase coverage and quality o f social expenditures
without increasing the total budget envelope. Its objective will be achieved through better allocation and
use o f resources.




                                                    28

98.      The fiscal cost to the GOC o f implementing the reforms in the program is estimated to be
US$995.6 million over the period 2002-2006 (Annex VI summarizes the costs, by sector), consisting o f
two types o f costs: transition costs and new annual costs.28 The transition costs, 64 percent o f the total,
are incurred only in the short run, and primarily are due to the financing o f the existingprogram while a
new program is being developed and piloted. Once the transition is complete, the resources spent on the
old program will fully fund the new program, having no net impact on the GOC's finances. This i s
expected to be the case for the transition from supply-side financing o f public hospitals to the new
insurance regimes (Regimen Subsidiario andRegimen Contribuitivo) and the transition from SENA as the
supplier o fjob training services to SENA as the manager o f a comprehensivejob training systemwith the
private sector playing a larger role in the provision o f training services. The remaining portion o f the
costs is new fiscal responsibilities that will continue indefinitely. These are high in the short run as the
systems are implemented, but the costs will stabilize at a lower Ievel once the system is in place. The
reforms that incur the new, annual, recurrent expenditures include the PAI, teacher performance
evaluations, student achievement testing, and impact evaluations o f social programs. Although these
expenses will appear in government finances indefinitely, they will have positiverates o f return due to the
long-term impacts o f higher human capital and more efficient social programs.

F.       Benefits

99.      Social Impact.      The social impact is anticipated to be quite positive and substantial.          Key
expected outcomes from the proposedoperation (Annex I)include:

         0        Increased access o f poor children to ICBF services by 400,000

         0        Increase innet enrollments by 500,000 new students inthe mediumterm;

         0        Increase employment by 400,000 workers inthe next four years due to the labor reform;

         0        Increased number o f graduates from publicly fundedjob training and an increase in the
                  number of individuals benefitingfrom apprenticeship experiences due to changes inthe
                  labor law;

         0        Increase the number o f students trained by SENA by nearly half a million from its given
                  resources;

         0        3.6-3.7 million children vaccinated in2006; and

         0        800,000 new affiliates inthe Subsidized (Health Insurance) Regime over the two years o f
                  the operation.

100.     The figures given above are rough estimates and should neither be taken as a prediction o f the
impact o f these operations nor a promise that they will be achieved in reality, considering the
overwhelming influence o f the other determinants.



** The cost estimates were derived separatelyfor each "prior action" inthe policy matrix, and then summedto give
the sector total. For eachprior action, the estimates were basedon (i) observedcosts of on-goingreforms- such
                                                                     the
as the per unit costs of immunizations, student testing, nutritional supplements, Subsidized Regime, training
vouchers, severance pay, and training courses - and best guesses of the number of beneficiaries, (ii)international
experience of such reforms (reform of the job training system and impact evaluation programs), or (iii) GOC
estimates (such as the hospitalrestructuring)


                                                         29

101.      Poverty Impact. The social impacts have clear poverty implications since most o f them are
investments in the future productivity o f low-income individuals.         The increase in the quantity o f
education and job training will increase the opportunities o f all Colombians to eam the high rates of
return that elude the less educated while the higher quality o f education andjob training will be rewarded
not only by even higher rates o f return, but also by the positive non-monetary benefits associated with
education, such as:       longevity, decreased risk o f poverty, healthier off-spring, etc. The expanded
immunization program would reduce mortality and illness among poor children, while the other health
measures are expected to protect their precious human capital and alleviate the financial consequences o f
health risks. Moreover, the poor would receive a greater share o f the ICBF and SENA benefits as a
consequence o f better targeting and greater efficiency o f social assistance programs (e.g. ICBF). Finally,
the poor would benefit from the implementation o f Law 789, which waives the payments ofparafiscales
for hard-to-employ groups and, therefore, provides incentives to employment o f these individuals-
getting them back inthe labor market, eaming an income, and enhancing their labor market skills for the
future.

G.        Risks

102.      The proposedprogramcarries some risk,although onthe whole it appears moderate. With regard
to the intemal risks, the first is the overall political context, including the intemal conflict and violence
associated with illegal drug activity, which has been escalating and would negatively impact the
continued implementation o f the program. Although Colombia is deeply committed to ending the
violence that has plagued the country for decades and i s supported by the international community, the
conflict could intensify and thus demand attention and resources from the government. The Bank's
overall country strategy supports the development o f a stronger foundation for peace and encourages
reforms that will help liberate resources to address the transition to a post-conflict situation. The
PLaRSSAL inparticular promotes reduction insocial inequity that may be fueling some o f the dissent.

 103.     Although Congress has already passed the Labor Reform Law, the regulation o f the law will
require significant political negotiation. If the regulations are poorly written, the law could fail in its
well-intentioned efforts to increase the efficiency o f the labor market and decreaseunemployment rates.

 104.     Strong special-interest groups have blocked government-supported reforms o f ICBF and SENA.
To address this, a process i s being developed inwhich the special-interest groups are invitedto participate
inthe process of reform. However, when the reforms progress to the point ofjob loss or provision of
 services to a different group o f beneficiaries, the special-interest groups may again block the process.
Another risk is the possibility o f government failure to get the proposed referendum approved, which
would mean that one o f the triggers would not be met. Moreover, the referendum poses a high risk to the
fiscal stance o f Colombia. However, this risk is mitigated by contingency measures that the authorities
will take incase the referendum is not approved or further delayed.

 105.     Through external or intemal shocks, the fiscal situation may deteriorate, jeopardizing the
macroeconomic situation. Greater volatility and negative shocks in external markets will increase the
 social protection burden. Since the mid-l99Os, Colombia has been more susceptible to regional (Brazil
 devaluation, Argentina default) and global (Russian crisis, East Asian Crisis) shock than ever before. The
political and economic conflicts in the region are not decreasing, thus increasing the risk o f contagion to
 Colombia's markets. The various fiscal, pension, financial and institutional reforms supported by the
 IMF,the Bank andIDBare expectedto mitigate the above risks andtheir consequences.

 106.     Finally, there is the risk that, although the Colombians are known for their expertise, there may
 not be enough trained and experienced people in government who can carry forward the implementation
 o f the various reforms. This concem has arisen because o f the numerous, large, and complex reforms the


                                                       30

GOC is simultaneously implementing. To reduce this risk, the Bank is recommending a Technical
Assistance Loan(TAL)to complementthese proposedoperations.




                                            31

4



i




     cl
     m

m
m

     U




h
W


                    ANNEX 11:Letter of DevelopmentPolicy from the Government



                                                                               Ministry of Finance and PublicCredit
Republic of Colombia
                                                                              Department of National Planning DNP



                                              libertody Orden



                                                                        Bogota, Wednesday, August 6,2003


Mr.JAMESD.WOLFENSON
President
THEWORLD BANK
Washington, D.C.


Dear Mr.Wolfenson,


Since the start of the Uribe VClez Administration in August of 2002, the definition of a wide-ranging
program of World Bank loans for the period 2003-2006 has been one of the most convincing
demonstrations of support that this country has received. The announcements regarding these programs
made by the multilateral development agencies, particularly the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank, helped to restore confidence in the stability of the Colombian economy and to
reestablish access to markets. This exhibit of confidence has been of fundamental importance for carrying
out an ambitious program of reforms, a good many of which have already been approved by the Congress
of the Republic.

Since the economic crisis of 1998-1999, Colombia has reduced the imbalances that threatened to wreck its
economic growth and social progress. Inflation has been reduced, financial stability has been restored and
private activity has recovered, although with certain ups and downs. Poverty, however, has increased
concurrently with the worsening of employment indicators. Internal security, the building of an equitable
society and economic recovery are the Government's highest priorities. The new administration i s totally
committed to fiscal stability, implementation of certain structural reforms that would allow all Colombians
to benefit from the opportunities that a healthy economy will provide them and, in this context of
adjustments and reforms, the provision of basic social services and protection for the country's most
vulnerable population groups.

Within this context, the Colombian Government i s working to obtain and mobilize resources under
conditions favorable to this country, with the goal of supporting adjustments in sectorial public policies
along with the implementation of institutional changes and lessening the immediate adverse effects of the
fiscal adjustment it is currently carrying out.

Withinthe framework of mediumand long-term economic and social policy, the Government is designing
a set of reforms in the social sector. On behalf of these reforms, it requests financial support from the




                                                          36

                                                                              Ministryof Financeand Public Credit
Republic of Colombia
                                                                              Departmentof NationalPlanning DNP



                                             Ubertady Orden

Bank in order to carry them out successfully, as well its ongoing accompaniment and technical support in
designing mechanisms to provide a basis for these reforms.

During 2002, The World Bank supported the Government in the development of programs for social
adjustment. This made possible the implementation both of structural reforms (and some which were not
immediate ones) of the social sector as well as formation of a social protectionnetwork, thanks to ongoing
technical and financial support on the part of the Bank.

The Government believes the credit has been successfulfor various reasons: i)adequatepreparation, given
the short time from the first mission until approval by the Bank's Board of Directors; ii)the risks
established in the memorandum of the President of the Bank to the Board of Directors didnot materialize;
iii)giventheshorttimeforpreparationandparticipationonthepartofvariousgovernmentalentities,the
leadership of the National Department of Planning (DNP, from its initials in Spanish), as the agency
responsible for the credit, was important both with regard to coordination and with respect to the technical
support provided to these entities; iv) constant communication between the National Department of
Planning and the Bank, and v) continuity in the actions agreed upon in the policy matrix, in that they were
supported by the new administration.

The Government recognizes that there are risks that could threaten adequate implementation of this new
program, including an unforeseen increment in security costs, insufficient support for economic initiatives
included in the referendum and greater volatility in external markets. Knowing this, the Government has
identified contingency measures designed to safeguard its program. These include additional taxes and
early implementation of some of the measures discussedin this document.

In the attached document, the precedents and context in which the Programmatic Credit for Labor and
Social Adjustment of the World Bank for Colombia were conceptualized and developed are described.
The policies incorporated into this operation arose from a wide-ranging exchange of ideas between teams
from the Bank and the Government, including those from the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, the
National Department of Planning (DNP), The Ministries of Social Protection and Education and the
institutions in charge of carrying out the social protection programs already inprogress. As a result of this
dialogue, a program was drawn up that will permit the Government to mitigate eventual negative effects
resultingfrom the adjustment processes and reforms on the poorest population segment.

Finally, the Government i s committed to the program presented in this document and looks with approval
upon the accompaniment and financial support of the World Bank. The Government expresses its
gratitude for prompt consideration on the part of the Bank's Board of Directors of a Programmatic Credit
for Labor and Social Adjustment inthe amount of US$200 million for the 2003 period.

Cordially,




                                                        37

                  REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA




           MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
                           AND
            NATIONAL DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING




                      POLICY LETTER
PROGRAMMATICLABOR REFORMAND SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                    Bogota,August 6,2003




                            38

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.ENSURINGMACROECONOMICSTABILITY                                             40

11. LABOR REFORM STRATEGY                                                    42

111. SOCIAL PROTECTIONSYSTEM                                                 44

A.   CONCEPTUALIZATIONOF THESOCIALPROTECTIONAND SECURITYSYSTEM               44
B. STRUCTUREAND OPERATIONOFTHESOCIALPROTECTIONAND SECURITY SYSTEM            45
       NATIONAL TRAININGPROGRAM- (SERVICIONACIONAL APRENDIZAJE) S E "
                                                 DE            -             51
       COLOMBIANINSTITUTE OFFAMILYWELFARE(INSTITUTO DE BIENESTAR
                                                  COLOMBIAN0          FAMILIAR)
                                                                             -
ICBF 52
       COMPENSATIONASSOCIATIONS                                              56

IV. SUPPORTFORONGOINGREFORMSINTHE SOCIAL SECTOR                              56


A. EDUCATION                                                                 57
B. HEALTHCARE                                                                59
C. TARGETING                                                                 61
D.POLICY ONTHEINTERXALLY DISPLACED                                           61

V. TRANSPARENCY, EVALUATIONAND SOCIAL CONTROL                                63




                                          39

                     I. ENSURINGMACROECONOMICSTABILITY

1. Duringthe 1998-1999 period, Colombia experienced its most severe recession in 70 years. Gross
   Domestic Product (GDP) grew by just 0.5% in 1998 and decreased by 4.25% in 1999. The
   recession period was characterized by deteriorationinfiscal accounts for the non-financial public
   sector, whose deficit that year reached the record figure o f 4% o f GDP. This situation originated
   to a great extent from excessive spending that began in 1994, both at the central and territorial
   levels, which led to unsustainable public finances. The worldwide crisis that began at the end o f
   1997 was another factor.

2. This crisis situationthat has been having an effect on Colombia i s associated to four main causes:
   i)the fiscalimbalance, which, inspite ofefforts andreformspresentedbythe Government,
   nonetheless translates into a deficit of 2.5%, almost three percent o f GDP. The level o f the deficit
   for the years 1996-1999, combined with the financing strategy, brought about an unprecedented
   escalation in the cost o f money. This in turn obviously reduced private investment to the lowest
   levels in its history (falling from 25% to 10%o f GDP between 1994 and 1999). The interest rate
   has fallen during the last two years, but private investment has not yet recovered to the levels
   observed before the recession; (ii)the difficult situation o f public order, which appears to be
   negatively affecting the expectations o f agents, thus preventing greater growth in investment.
   Additionally, attacks on the transportation system for hydrocarbons have burdened the country
   with a fall o f almost 33% in the petroleum sector; (iii)significant reduction in the value o f the
                                                             a
   assets in Colombian homes and companies from which they are still recovering and which,
   combined with unfavorable expectations, has caused a contraction in internal demand; and (iv)
   unfavorable behavior o fthe prices o f some o fthe principal export products.

3. Colombia has been experiencing a recovery since the 1998-1999 crisis, in spite o f intensification
   of violence and the existence o f an unfavorable international environment. There has been
   progress in fiscal consolidation, inflation has been reduced and the financial system has been
   restructured. Until the beginning o f 2002, these achievements permitted access to international
   credit markets and guaranteed a stable exchange rate.

4. However, in mid 2002 the country suffered from the consequences o f regional instability: the
   spreads on sovereign bonds widened considerably and the peso was devaluated as a result. This
   situation was aggravated by an increase inthe fiscal deficit and by an intensification o f the armed
   conflict without recent precedents as a result o f developments inthe peace process at that time.

5. Confronted with an adverse regional environment and enormous fiscal problems, the new
   Government acted rapidly. First, it proposed (and gained approval of) significant budget cuts for
   2003 to the point at which spending, other than for interest payments, will grow at a rate below
   the expected rate o f inflation this year. Secondly, it established a one-time tax on assets and
   presented Congress with an unprecedented package o f tax measures and controls on spending.
   And thirdly, it issued decrees to cut costs, benefits or subsidies: the rate for reimbursement o f the
   Certificate o f Tax Reimbursement (CERT, from its initials in Spanish) was reduced to zero,
   extra-legal benefits at the territorial level were reduced to zero and vacancies that had not been
   filled since July o f 2002 were abolished. Ina parallel manner, the Government began the design
   and implementation o f an ambitious program to reduce and restructure public administration.




                                                   40

6. During2002, GDP real growth was nearly 1.7%, inflation was 6.99%, the current account deficit
   remained at levels near 1.8% o f GDP and Net International Reserves grew by approximately
   US$220 million. For 2003, a recovery in economic growth with stability i s expected: the rate o f
   growth will be between 2% and 2.5%, inflation will fluctuate between 5% and 6%, and the
   current account deficit will be lowered to 0.8% o f GDP.

7. On the fiscal side, at the end o f 2002 the consolidated deficit was 4% o f GDP, 1.4% above the
   goal initially agreed upon with the International Monetary Fund. This deviation i s largely
   explained by greater expenditures (partly associated with the election process) and with
   deceleration o f economic growth in 2001 and the first half o f 2002, which had an adverse effect
   on tax collection.

8. In2003, it i s predictedthat the deficit inthe consolidatedpublic sector will be reduced to 2.5% o f
   GDP. With the aim o f reaching this fiscal goal, the Government has put a strategy into effect
   having two main elements. First, the law on the Referendum that, ifthe voters pass it, will fieeze
   the Government's nominal operating costs during 2003 and 2004. Direct savings due to this
   initiative are expected to be 0.7% of GDP (1.5 trillion pesos) in 2003 and 0.5% o f GDP (1.2
   trillion pesos) in 2004. And secondly, tax reform, which will increase income by 1% o f GDP in
   2003 and 2004 and 1.8% starting in 2005. These resources will be obtained principally through a
   drastic enlargement o f the taxable base for the VAT, a gradual reduction in deductions on income
   tax, a surtax on income tax and a number o f improvements in tax administration.

9. The Government's program i s oriented towards guaranteeing fiscal sustainability and, inthe final
   instance, restoring security, recovering economic growth and increasing social equality. Fiscal
   adjustment and structural reforms will ensure that these objectives are hlfilled within an
   environment o f macroeconomic stability supported by prudent monetary policies and
    strengthening of the financial system. At the same time, social assistance programs will be
    strengthened, coverage in education and healthcare will be increased and the impact of increases
    inutilities billsonthe poorest populationgroups will be mitigated.

10. Within this framework o f macroeconomic stabilization, the Colombian Government signed a
    Stand-By Agreement (SBA) with the IMF for 1.548 billion DEG for the next two years. One o f
    the program's main goals i s a reduction in the fiscal deficit equal to two percent o f GDP. This
    reduction will be achieved through increased tax receipts, as a result o f tax reform, and through
    freezing current expenditures on the part of the Government for a period o f two years. Over the
    medium term, structural reforms, such as the Pension Reform recently approved by Congress,
    and the program for modernization o f the State, will contribute towards ensuring sustainability o f
    the debt and consolidate the adjustment process initiated by the Government. The SBA includes a
    non-financial public sector deficit o f 2.5% of GDP, a current account deficit o f 0.8% o f GDP and
    an inflation rate between 5 and 6% as the principal goals for 2003.

11. The strengthening o f public finances is one o f the key strategies for restoring confidence and
    economic growth. Savings generated by the adjustment in the private sector will finance the
    gradual adjustment in the excess spending that remains in the public sector. The scope of the
    structural reforms being undertaken provides credibility for the adjustment in the public sector. A
    reduction in the consolidated public sector deficit fiom 4.0% o f GDP in 2002 to 2.5% in 2003
    and 2.1% in 2004, and so on, i s an explicit objective. The fiscal adjustment will increase the
    primary surplus inthe non-financial public sector from 0.7% o f GDP to 3% and it i s hoped that it
    will reduce non-financial public sector debt to below 50 percent o f GDP.


                                                   41

12. The Government is aware that sustainability o f the public debt must be based on solid structural
   reforms and not on optimistic scenarios o f economic growth or on venturesome assumptions
   based on the behavior o fthe exchange rate or the interest rate.

13. The Government recognizes that there are risks that can threaten adequate implementation o f its
    programs, such as an unanticipatedincrease in security expenditures, insufficient support for the
    government's economic initiatives, including those established in the referendum, and volatility
    in external markets. The Government has thus identified contingency measures designed to
    safeguard its program against these events. These include additional taxes, a reduction in
    spending and speeding up such measures as an increase in the VAT rate included with a rate o f
    7%.

14. In case o f insufficient financing, the Government will consider the temporary use o f resources
    from the Petroleum Savings and Stabilization Fund (FAEP, from its initials in Spanish), which
    currently has assets o f nearly 1.5% o f GDP. With respect to security expenditures, preliminary
    information indicates that the tax on assets for this purpose i s generating more than was
    originally foreseen. If the additional resources plus the above mentioned contingency measures
    turn out not to be sufficient inorder to finance unanticipated military spending, the Government
    would consider issuinglongterm bonds on concessionary terms.

                                    11.LABORREFORM STRATEGY

15. For some time now, the Government, the academia and other social sectors have been providing
    evidence o f the need to undertake a reform o f labor regulations in Colombia as a basic element
    for improving the dynamic o f job creation and as a complement to recuperation o f economic
    growth.

16. Above all, and increasingly in coming years, this i s because the country faces completely
    different conditions from those 10 or 20 years ago. Companies and workers face a new economic
    environment that requires much more flexible mechanisms for adaptation that will not put the
    country's competitiveness and, as a result job creation, at risk. For this reason, instruments in
    addition to simple macroeconomic policy are needed so that the country can achieve socially
    acceptable rates o f unemployment. One such instrument i s the updating o f labor regulations so as
    to create new types o frelationships between workers and businessmen.

17. The current government was aware o f this need. For this very reason, it took on responsibility
    from the very beginning for improving conditions o f adaptability in our labor market. This
    commitment was expressed in the Development Plan entitled "Towards a Communal State," in
    spite o f a clear understanding o f the difficulty o f getting a legislative project o f this kind through
    the Congress o f the Republic. Fortunately, the proposed legislation was passed by both chambers
    and i s today a L a w o f the Republic (Law 789 o f 2002).

18. One reason for the successful passage o f this new law was because it went beyond the vision
    found in earlier projects which had focused on proposed reforms limited to the field o f labor
    regulation and had thus overlooked some social costs related to this type o f measure, above all in
    countries like ours that lack consolidated social protection mechanisms to deal with the risks o f
    unemployment. From the beginning, the project took into account the need to create an
    institutional structure that would make it possible to socialize the risks and improve the


                                                     42

    employability o f the country's workforce. Thus Law 789, along with Law 797 (the Pension
    Reform Law), make up the legal framework that will support consolidation o f the social
    protection system inColombia.

19. Our estimates show that, thanks to the measures contemplated in Law 789,486,000 newjobs can
    be created over the next four years: 133,000 duringthe first year and 184,000,93,000 and 75,000
    in the following years as the result ofthe dynamic effects ofthese measures. O fthe total number
    ofjobs which it is hoped that the reform will generate, 20% will be achieved due to lengthening
    of the workday and reduction o f other contemplated costs; 19% through the stimulus resulting
    from harnessing certain social groups as a result o f the decrease in payroll taxes (special regime
    o f contributions); 29% through reductions in the indemnity table, above all for those with more
    than ten years on the job. Finally, the largest percentage (32%) will be generated through changes
    inthe training contract.

20. With respect to this last point, the Law created the legal framework for implementation of
    changes in the functioning o f the Sena (National Training Program) as contemplated in the
   National Development Plan. Among other things, the Sena i s allowed to offer its services through
    other entities for training or universities. The contract for training i s extended to other training
    entities and universities, and at the same time it i s separated from labor-related obligations. In
    addition, the National Labor Registryi s beingcreated. We are sure that strategic development o f
   the law will make it possible to consolidate across the country the National Training System
   where both private as well as public operators may participate and where the workforce will
    obtain training in accordance with the country's current needs.

21. Three phases of implementation have been foreseen for the new labor Law (789 o f 2002). At
    first, and starting from when the law i s enacted, all o f the new articles that update labor relations
    (Articles 25, 26, 27, 28 and 29) will be applied to new employees hired by the companies. At a
   later date, these same provisions will also enter into effect for those employees who had already
   been working for the companies before enactment of this law. Finally, it will be necessary to
   regulate a considerable number o f the law's other articles.

22. To this end, the Government has already set out an agenda that will allow it to regulate the
   greater part of Law 789 o f 2002 during the course o f this year. One o f the provisions that
   constitute a priority for the Government i s the one that regulated article 13, which temporarily
   exempts companies from payroll taxes when contracting new employees from vulnerable
   population groups. Similarly, articles 6 to 11, which relate to creation o f a fund for job promotion
   and protection for the unemployed to come from the assets o f the compensation associations, will
   be regulated. There is also a need to regulate the new relationship with respect to training
   (articles 30 to 42) which, as has been already mentioned, lays the foundation for creation o f a
   market for labor training, an indispensable premise for consolidation o f a true job training system
   inthis country as well as inorder to endow the market with greater dynamism.




                                                    43

                                 III.SOCIALPROTECTIONSYSTEM

23. The National Development Plan has determined that the building o f a more equitable society
   must be one ofthe foundations of development policies. To this end, three basic challenges have
   been set out: i)increased efficiency in social spending so that greater resources translate into
   better results; ii)improvement intargeting resources so that they are receivedby the most needy;
   and iii)consolidation of a social protection system so that economic crises do not affect the most
   vulnerable groups.

24. Social protection in Colombia i s in the hands o f a series o f entities that lack common objectives,
   are without coordination and have a high degree o f fragmentation and overlap in their programs.
   While the social security system did enlarge mass provision o f traditional services, it failed to
   create the tools needed for social assistance and protection. This i s especially true o f programs
    for temporarily dealing with the adverse effects o f economic crises on the most impoverished,
   such as food programs for young children, mechanisms to fight dropping out o f school among
   young people, training directed at insertion and reinsertion o f the unemployed into the labor
   market and mass programs for emergency employment.

                 A. CONCEPTUALIZATIONOF THESOCIALPROTECTIONANDSECURITYSYSTEM

25. With the aim o f tackling these problems, the Government has set inmotion the consolidation o f a
    strategy that is to protect the poorest and most vulnerable population segment by means o f the
    development of instruments for prevention and social assistance. To this end, it will implement a
    System for Protection and Social Security (SPS, from its initials in Spanish) that i s established as
    the set o f policies aimed at decreasing vulnerability and improving Colombians' quality o f life,
    especially o f those most vulnerable.

26. The goal o f the creation o f the Social protection system i s to decrease the risk o f the population
    when faced with economic disruptions and to aid the poor who are confronted by them. The SPS
    must specifically reduce temporary poverty, prevent the poor from sinking deeper and deliver a
    means to overcome this condition. In this manner, the SPS seeks i)to improve individual and
    social welfare (less vulnerability, greater uniformity in consumption and greater social justice);
    ii)tocontributetoeconomic growthanddevelopment andiii)toreducepovertyinaneffective
    and long-lasting manner.

27. Similarly, the SPS will seek to coordinate the policies o f the State and confront the harmful
    effects o f poverty and vulnerability as well as to protect those most vulnerable through
    coordination and execution o f social programs accompanied by financing mechanisms that will
    guarantee prompt intervention.

28. The objectives of the SPS will be carried out while taking the following guiding principles into
    account: i)efficiency, for better utilization of resources; ii)universality, in order to guarantee
    protection without discrimination at all stages o f life; iii)solidarity, which allows for mutual
    assistance between people, generations and communities; iv) comprehensiveness in order to
    extend coverage for all contingencies in health, income and general living conditions; v) unity,
    which facilitates coordination o f policies, institutions, regimes, procedures and benefits; and vi)
    community participation in organizing, controlling, managing and supervising the institutions
    and the system.



                                                   44

29. Therefore, under these principles, three strategies for risk management will be implemented: 1)
    reduction, 2) relief and 3) confrontation. The first strategy o f the system aims at reducing risk
    through policies that go from macroeconomic management, which can financially weaken social
    spending when it is incorrect, to regulations and institutional development policies that facilitate
    its operation.

30. The strategy for mitigating risk has the goal o f anticipating a new economic disruption and thus
    lessening its impact when it does occur. Within the framework for risk mitigation, programs for
    work training for the unemployed, subsidies for nutrition and school attendance and micro-credits
    are contemplated, among others. As a basic aspect, it seeks to protect the worker faced with such
    contingencies as unemployment by partially and temporarily compensating for his reduced
    income. Similarly, a program for strengthening the labor market will be designed, aimed at small
    and medium-sized enterprises that create jobs for heads o f households and employ the
    beneficiaries o f the unemployment subsidy.

31. Strategies for dealing with risks are applied after the disruption in order to treat impacts not
    covered by the strategy for mitigation. The aim i s to make sure that the short-term effects o f a
    crisis do not impedepoverty reduction inthe long term, for example that affected children do not
    experience irreversible nutritional problems or leave school in order to work. This strategy
    includes the programs o f the Social Support Network that from now on will be operated by the
    Ministryfor SocialProtection andthe entities attached to it.

32. In addition to these strategies, two main components have been established for the SPS: i)the
    Comprehensive Social Security System (SSSI) and ii)Social Assistance. The SSSI i s financed by
    contributions and based on guarantees. Its main goal is to assist individuals to manage risk in an
    improved manner. The General System o f Pensions, the General System for Social Security in
    Healthcare and the General System for Occupational Safety are part o f the SSSI. On the other
    hand, Social Assistance i s defined as monetary benefits financed by the State. This component
    must specifically avoid the need for the poor to resort to such mechanisms as taking their
    children out of school or lowering their food intake so as not to put their future capacity to
    generate income at risk,thus worsening their impoverishment.

                B. STRUCTURE OPERATIONOF THE SOCIALPROTECTIONANDSECURITYSYSTEM
                                AND

33. The first step in putting into place the conceptual framework o f the SPS was to create the legal
    and regulatory framework into which the institutions that make up the system could be fitted. In
    light o f the above, the legislative agenda at the start o f this administration was aimed at the
   regulatory area, especially through the labor and pension reforms approved by the Congress in
    December o f 2002. The Labor Reform Law facilitated reform o f labor regulations, defined the
    Social Protection System and included regulations in support o f employment as well as increased
    social protection.

34. At the same time, institutional development began with creation o f the Ministry o f Social
   Protection   - M P S -  that came about through fusion o f the Ministries o f Labor and Health and
   which has responsibility for policy formulation and coordination o f the SPS. This policy includes
   public health, training, labor standards and policies, interventions for reducing child labor and
   policies on disability. In this manner, the Ministry i s the decision-making body for establishing




                                                  45

     guidelines for policies and for inter-institutional coordination among entities that make up the
      SPS'.

35 The M P S , through the Technical Vice Minister, will be in charge o f putting this system into
     motion with the aim o f consolidating most o f the institutions providing social services as well as
     to undertake design o f comprehensive and efficient programs for minimizing duplication o f
      functions, especially administrative ones. Additionally, this Ministry, in coordination with the
     National Department o f Planning and the Ministry o f Finance, will ensure the required basic
      financing.

36. Bearing in mind that social assistance expenditure i s pro-cyclical, it i s proposed that a Social
     Protection Fundbe put into operation as a complementary mechanism for financing the System.
     Through it, stability would be guaranteed in terms o f spending and extended coverage for the
     major social programs when a negative economic shock occurs. Inthis sense, the proposed find
     would hlfill a counter-cyclical function and would complement public spending on targeted
     social programs through the Systemo fBeneficiary Selection (SISBEN).

37. The Ministry o f Social Protection will have the basic objectives o f formulation, adoption,
      direction, coordination, execution, control and follow-up o f the SPS. The SPS's operations are
     made up of the set o f obligations; public, private and mixed institutions; regulations; public and
     private procedures and resources aimed at preventing, mitigating and overcoming the risks that
      affect the quality o f life o f the population. It also incorporates the Comprehensive Social Security
      System (which helps individuals to better manage their risks) and the National System for Family
     Welfare (which seeks to foster harmonious development o f the family, protection of children and
      guarantees for their rights). In this sense, in order to ensure optimum functioning of the SPS,
     policies will be designedjointly with the M P S and the entities executing the programs o f each
      system, while mechanisms for evaluatingthe impacts o fprograms will also be designed.

38. It is hoped that the SPS will be fully organized at the end o f this administration. Its principal goal
      will be overcoming poverty and improving income distribution. Its general principles will be
      efficiency and solidarity with the goal o f making progress towards universality. This presupposes
      that the Government will obtain sufficient resources and will have an effective administrative
      system.

39. The SPS will combine the progress made by the General System for Social Security in
     Healthcare, the General System o f Occupational Hazards, the General System for Pensions and
     the NationalFamily Welfare System. There will also be additional strategies for social protection
      as part o f the Social System for Risk aimed at prevention, mitigation and overcoming o f risks
     with respect to specific situations. These seek to protect family incomes and human capital and
      include:
                -   Strategies for job promotion, protection for the unemployed and programs for micro-
                    credit for micro, small and medium sized enterprises (MiSMEs) with participation on
                    the part o f the compensation associations;

' The   following institutions make up The Ministry o f Social Protection: The Ministry o f Social Protection, ICBF (Colombian
Institute for Family Welfare), SENA (National Training Service), Compensation Associations, the ISS (Social Security Institute),
the pension funds, the Social Protection Fund, SUPERSUBSIDIO (the Office o f the Superintendent o f Subsidies), INS, INVIMA,
etc.)


                                                              46

            --  Training programs for labor insertionto be entrusted to the SENA;
                Programs for subsidies earmarked for nutritional support, for educational support
                under the coordination o f the ICBF as well as for access to healthcare services under
                the responsibility o f territorial entities and the Ministryo f Social Protection.

40. The components of the SPS along with the main benefits may be seen in Graph 1. The Ministry
    o f Social Protectionbecomes the guidingentity for the policies as well as the regulator for each
    o f the subsystems. It has cooperation and coordination from its affiliated entities (SENA, ICBF,
    supervisory bodies), from others inthe public, private and cooperative sectors (public and private
    providers, compensation associations) and from the territorial entities (see graphs by
    subsystems).

                                -Graph 1. System of Social Protection




                                I


                                                                    *IGeriatncCare   1

                                                                                      +            T    I
                                                                    *
                                                                    r             _II/
                                                                      Others

                                                                                          Natural Risks




41. The form in which this coordination between institutions making up the SPS is to occur i s
    described below, taking the design o f the policy on adults as an example: in the first place, the
   MPS conceived the policy by means of Law 797 o f 2002 through the addition of an article that
    obtained the necessary resources for financing the programs. The MPS then drew up the
   regulating decree together with the Conpes (National Planning Council) document containing all
   o f the program's parameters, including the amount o f the subsidy, the tool for targeting it,
   priorities for beneficiaries, regionalizationand the operational scheme which i s givenbelow:

42. This diagram makes it clear that the program design was entrusted to the MPS, which gathered
   together the principal actors, and that the ICBF will be the executor for the program.
   Additionally, the diagram shows that the resources will be managed by the Fund for Pension
    Solidarity (FSP), an organism that belongs to the M P S and i s managed by the Office for
   Financing of the Technical Vice-Minister o f the M P S .


                                                      47

                          Graph 2. Coordination of the Social Protection System




     Designs & coordinates



                                             Orders Payment
                                             -
            Agreement
            Selection    - -         t Approves
                                       Project

                                    ICBF

            Prioritization
            Regionalization               Official Announcement It    Awlication Form




43. As may be seen in the following graphs (graphs 3-7), there i s a particular institutional design that
   exists as a component o f each o f the previously mentioned subsystems and that endeavors to link
   the sources o f financing with the target populations that are beneficiaries of the goods and
    services that each one provides. The institutional design recognizes the specialization o f
   functions o f the agents executing the programs in the different fields: affiliation and collection o f
   contributions, targeting, concentration o f resources and financial management, program
   execution, policy formulation and direction, among others. The short-term challenge will be to
   energize the financing structure and generate effective mechanisms for targeting and integrating
   the benefits for the target population in accordance with the conditions foreseen in each o f them.
   To this end, the Sisben will be o f fundamental importance as an instrument for targeting the
   programs along with the designing o f monitoringand evaluation tools.




                                                    48

      Graph 3. Institutional Design of the General System for Social Security in Healthcare



                                                                                                        iObligatory(SOAT)
                                                                                                          InsuranceAutomobile
            r        10 5%-              I




        erritorial HealthcareFund - Supply                General
                                                          System for
                                                          Social
       I                                         1
                    lnwme                   I             SecurityinHealth

        SOURCES FUNDS                                        AGENTS                                POPULATION


        Graph 4. Institutional Design of the General System for OccupationalHazards

                  GeneraligystemforOccupationalHazards
                                          ''                                                  I
Sources         - Funds                   !            Agents                                      Population


                                          z




                                          F
                                          B
                                          1       LIJ Occup?bonalHazard
                                                      Adminishators              II"b"(Y

                                                            .ARP           PrmdlalardPreuentlal




                                          I       L....
                                          B
                                          1




                                                                   49

       Graph5. InstitutionalDesignofthe GeneralSystemof Pensions

                 General!4ustem of Pensions
Sources  - Funds                  Agents             I       Population




                                                     I




   Graph6. InstitutionalDesignof the GeneralSystemof FamilyWelfare


                   NATIONAL SYSTEM OF FAMILY WELFARE




                                         I                 f




                                  50

                   Graph 7. Institutional Design of the Social System for Risks


                             SoclalSys"for Rlsks




44. Taking into account all o f the above, a series o f complementary actions for institutionally
   restructuring the existing entities for social protection (SENA, compensation associations, ICBF)
    as well as in order to create the legal and conceptual framework o f the SPS are being designed
   and put into practice. These are as follows:



                   National TrainingProgram - (Sewicio Nacional deAprendizaje)             -SENA

45. With respect to redesigning the entities, transcendental changes are being proposed within the
    SENA in terms of its nature as an institution, its way of relating to its users (workers and
    employers) and with respect to its priorities. The principal proposed changes refer to: i)
    implantation of the meritocracy in fillingjobs in order to decrease pressures for patronage as well
    as to control excesses on the part o f administrative personnel having to do with the number of
    instructors; ii)increased use o f already installed capacity in its training centers; iii)creation o f a
   system to provide greater autonomy for the operational units by combining the existing regional
   branches into 10 or 12, with the aim o f decreasing the administrative burdenwhile givingpriority
   to providing attention for the final user by means of the training centers; iv) to stimulate the type
   o f training demanded by the productive sector while abolishing those having little relevance to
   the market; v) to train the unemployedpopulation for work by investing 25% o f total income; vi)
   to allow for competition on the part o f other training organizations in order to strengthen the
   offering o f public and private training programs. All o f the above will make it possible for the
    SENA to double its impact on the population over the next four years, which means that it will
   go from training its current load o f 280,000 students a year to benefiting between 560,000 and
   600,000 a year, targeting the unemployedpopulation that i s most inneed o f training.




                                                   51

46. The SENA's programs point towards creation o f new jobs over the short and long terms, the
     strengthening o f social cooperation and facilitating o f conditions for reinsertion o f the
    unemployed through training.

47. Law 789 o f 2002 (Labor Reform Law) exempts companies from payment o f contributions to the
    SENA ifthey create newjobs and fill them with people who have been incarcerated or released,
    the disabled, reinserted former guerrillas or paramilitaries, young people between the ages o f 18
    and 25, people above the age of 50 and heads o f households. This will stimulate harnessing o f the
    most vulnerable population segments and will permit job creation during this four-year period.
    As a result o f the same law, the SENA will allocate 25% o f its income from payroll tax
    contributions towards training for the unemployed population and 0.1% to the Construction o f
    the National System o f Labor Registry, with which it will enlarge its registry o f unemployed
    persons and companies looking to hire employees.

48. With respect to strengthening training, the SENA will double the number of people to whom it
    provides training and will implement measures aimed at improving the quality and relevance o f
    its courses. The increase in the quantity and quality o f training will be based on incorporation o f
    new technologies, with an emphasis on intensive use o f information and communication
    technologies.

49. The entity's new operational system will permit other training entities, bothpublic and private, to
    combine with it for the purpose of buildingthe National System o f Training for Work. Within
    this framework, the SENA will be the regulator and certifier o f labor competencies.

50. The SENA will provide training for labor insertion and reinsertion o f population segments that
    are acutely facing the adverse effects of the economic crises or that have special personal
    characteristics, such as the poorest households and unemployed youths between the ages o f 18
    and 25. The SENA will also take on operationo f the Youth inAction Program.

51. With respect to the SENA, the Government intends to carry out an agenda that signifies
    fundamental changes, not just in the institution's internal structure and operation but also in the
    market for training itself. This i s because, as has been previously stated, it i s high time that the
    country consolidates a true system for vocational training that responds to the new economic and
    social challenges. To this end, a series o f tasks have been laid out that will make this aspiration a
    reality. In the first place, it proposes to undertake a comprehensive diagnosis o f the SENA's
    situation and o f the vocational training set-up currently in place. This process will serve as an
    input for a Conpes plan that i s to contain the principal measures to be carried out in order to put
    the new system into operation. Finally, it will expedite the puttinginto operation o f the National
    System of Training for Work, which must consider creation o f a market for training. This means
    the possibility that many actors, bothpublic and private, can participate as operators, at the same
    time that greater possibilities for choice amongusers are opened up.


                    Colombian institute of Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar
                    Familiar) ICBF
                                -

52. The ICBF, in turn, will implement a public policy on childhood, understood as a commitment in
   favor o f children and expressed in the principles o f responsibility and co-responsibility on the



                                                    52

part o f the family, the society and the State, that i s to protect and strengthen human capital during
infancy while guaranteeing its basic rights.The hndamental changes are:

               1) The Ministry o f Social Protection will be charged with formulation and
                   direction o f policies for children and the family. The ICBF, in coordination
                   with the Ministry, will work on the design, execution and supervision o f the
                   programs. The Zonal Centers o f the ICBF are to administer the programs in
                   combination with the municipalities (decentralization). Execution will be
                   gradually entrusted to the territorial entities and community organizations, in
                   accordance with their institutional development.

               2) The making o f agreements with the territorial entities, in order to combine
                   resources and make operational a proposal for decentralization, will be
                   encouraged. A pilot project for decentralization will be undertaken in 3 to 5
                   departments with respect to the field o f assistance and prevention. The impact
                   and results of these pilot projects will then be evaluated in order to replicate
                   the experience thus acquired.

               3) The set-up for co-financing the programs with resources from payroll taxes,
                   resources from the territorial entities and other resources (compensation
                   associations, NGOs) will be extended. These agreements will include both
                   physical and financial goals for evaluating resource management and
                   demonstrating results to the population.

               4) Co-financing is to be used to promote this strategy for programs for infancy
                   and the family being developed in this country. In order to achieve this, the
                   following strategies are to be developed: i)stimulate creation and operation of
                   the Social Policy Councils (CPS) in 100%o f the municipalities inthis country
                   by 2005; ii)encourage the CPS to make the local situational diagnoses with
                    social participation so that they will be of use in the process for programming
                   ICBF resources in order for the 2006 budget allocated to the municipalities to
                   be in accordance with the recommendations of the CPS; and iii)encourage
                   agreementswith the territorial entities so as to ensure combined resources.

               5) Allocation o f resources from payroll taxes for co-financing will be done
                   according to the needs and risks to be covered in the different regions and in
                   light of the results o f the undertaking. These will be evaluated usingindicators
                    for coverage, efficiency and quality. Efforts on the part o f municipalities to
                   achieve better coverage and quality o f attention will be recognized in the
                   annual allocations.

               6) New modalities for attention will be created with technical standards as well as
                    standards for effectiveness that will make it possible to extend coverage. In
                    line with this, the ICBF will develop a program for evaluation o f the efficiency
                   and impact o f its programs as a necessity for adjusting and improving them.
                   Legal standing will be conferred on institutions providing the Public Service o f
                   Family Welfare. To this end, institutions will be registered and a system will
                   be designed for fitting out and accrediting so as to motivate the efficiency and
                    quality o f these services. Associative modes of a pre-cooperative nature made


                                                  53

           up exclusively of communal mothers will be encouraged and they will be
           offered training and access to micro-credit lines.

           With the aim of creating larger spaces for child development, a modality of
           multiple homes will be adopted as a mechanism for communal attention. The
           compensation associations,territorial govemments, the National Government, the
           communities and other private sources will combine resources for their
           construction and maintenance.

           The targeting strategy o f the Colombian Institute o f Family Welfare i s based
           on the National Development Plan for 2002-2006. I t proposes targeting the
           beneficiaries o f the programs for assistance and prevention for the family
           (especially those for food and care) through the targeting tool "System o f
           Identification and Classification of Potential Beneficiaries o f Social Programs"
           (SISBEN).

It emphasizes giving priority attention to the most vulnerable population segment, such
as children from families categorized as being in level 1 o f the SISBEN. It is based on
three basic principles o f State action on behalf o f society, these being equality,
efficiency and quality. It emphasizes the need to allocate resources from the policy for
attention for the family and children inan efficient and fair manner betweenthe different
territorial levels, as well as to provide efficient and quality programs relevant to
management of social risk.

    Actions aimed at optimizing equality in targeting and allocation

         Definition of the target population for ICBF preventive programs according to
         Social Management o f Risk; establishment o f the intensity o f ICBF investment in
         accordance with age groups.
         Development o f a targeting tool for ICBF preventive programs through the
         SISBENthat is to join together the supply and demand for services according to
         Social Management of Risk and define types o f intervention in accordance with
         the level o frisk requiredby age groups.
         Targeting o f beneficiaries o f nutritional and care programs for 2004 based on the
         SISBENconsolidatedmunicipal databases o f 2003
         Allocation o f 2004 municipal resources based on the total SISBEN 1 and 2 child
         population according to the consolidated national database in accordance with the
         target population
         Programming o f social and financial goals for 2004 based on targeting tools in
         accordance with the Social Management o f Risk
         Methodological development of estimation o f the number o f beneficiaries o f the
         nutritional and care programs executed by the ICBF and classified in SISBEN
         levels 1 and 2 (March 2004)
         Definition o f the ,increase in coverage o f the nutritional and care programs
         executed by the ICBF classified in SISBEN levels 1 and 2 valid for 2005
         (September 2004)
         Development o f a system for monitoring and follow-up for estimating the number
         of beneficiaries o f nutritional and care programs executed by the ICBF classified
         inSISBENlevels 1and2 for 2005 (March 2004)


                                         54

Actions aimed at optimizing the efficiency of targeting and allocation:

   Design a database o f beneficiaries o f first phase ICBF programs; pilot test in 3
   municipalities
   Design a methodology for reference prices and standard costs for some o f the
   nutritional and care programs executed by the ICBF
   Review protocols and standards for attention for the nutritional and care programs
    executed by the ICBF (Communal Welfare Homes, Nutritional Assistance for
    Schoolchildren and Adolescents)
   Application o f a reference price methodology for Communal Welfare Homes and
    for Nutritional Assistance for School Age Children and Adolescents
   Design a system o f incentives for municipal investment and development o f
    agendas for the Social Policy Councils

Actions aimed at optimizing the quality of actions for targeting and allocation:

   Design o f a methodology for establishing essential minimum requirements for
    ICBF service program providers according to the type of service by risk level
    Design of an instrument for follow-up and analysis of the execution of social and
    financial goals
    Application o f the 2004 instrument for follow-up and analysis o f the execution o f
    social and financial goals

A pilot project will be carriedout in 2003 in order to target the populationbelow the
age o f 7 that i s the beneficiary o f the nutritional programs o f the Public System for
Family Welfare. This will be done through the System of Beneficiary Selection
(SISBEN),giving priority to the child population under 5 years of age belonging to
families in levels 1 and 2 o f the SISBEN. In 2004, the targeting strategy using the
new SISBENwill be appliedbythese programsthroughout the country.

The prior actions will be support by an agreementissuedbyICBFBoardofDirectorsin
which it will approve the Institute's targeting policy. Furthermore, they will be
outlined ina CONPES document onthe Targeting o fthe Institute's Programs.


  9) The System o f Information for strategic decision-making and management, for
      orientation o f programs and resources, for follow-up and evaluation and for
      consulting the citizenry and reporting results will be strengthened.

  10) The ICBF will become a fundamental actor o f the Social protection system as
      coordinator, executor or supervisor o f programs for prevention, mitigation and
      overcoming o f risks directed at children, families and vulnerable groups in the
      areas of nutritional assistance, care and development o f minors, protection o f
      minors as well as those directed towards prevention o f intra-family violence
      and the elderly population living inextreme poverty.




                                     55

                .   CompensationAssociations


53. The System for Family Compensation administered by the Compensation Associations will
   undergo significant changes with the intention o f making it more re-distributive and endowing it
   with greater coverage. It is proposedthat: i)they change the current conditions for access on the
   part o f workers and allow unemployed heads o f households to join; ii)lower the limit for the
   right to receive the monetary subsidy from four times the minimum wage to three times the
   minimum wage; iii)unemployed beneficiaries should have the right to a subsidy that would
   include contributions to the healthcare regime over a period o f time inaccordance with budgetary
   availability; iv) unemployed persons who had previouslyjoined the associations should have the
   right to recreational and tourist services in accordance with the length of time duringwhich they
    have been members; v) unemployed persons who can show that they have been affiliated with the
    system for more than a year during the period immediately prior to losing their jobs should
   receive relevant vocational training so as to increase their possibilities for labor reinsertion; vi)
   the compensation associations should provide credits for micro businesses.

54. Under the new regulations compensation associations have a significant social and economic
    role to play In the economic sphere, they will be able to invest in the financial sector through
   banks, financial cooperatives and commercial finance companies as well as in the housing
    market. They will also be able to form partnerships with and constitute distinct legal entities in
    order to undertake any activity relatedto their corporate purpose and will be able to affiliate their
    members with these new entities. In the social field, they are being assigned a transcendental
    responsibility, in that they are permitted to invest in all o f the regimes o f the Comprehensive
    Social Security System, innursery schools and in subsidized housing.

                      IV. SUPPORTFOR ONGOING REFORMSINTHE SOCIAL SECTOR

55. This country has initiated reforms in education, healthcare, labor training and targeting. To this
    end, the current administration has based these initiatives on recent legal developments in order
    to increase the efficiency o f social spending, improve targeting o f expenditures and consolidate a
    social protection system so that economic crises do not affect the future possibilities o f the most
    vulnerable groups.

56. Similarly, protection has been shown in the expenditures for priority social programs that are
    reflected in the Government's policy for guaranteeing increased coverage. The social spending
    component for 2003 reflects the Government's policy for ensuring such increases. Its percentage
    o f the General Budget o f the State has reached 43%. Within social spending, the most important
    area i s Employment and Social Security (42%) followed by Education (34%) and Healthcare
    (18%). These significant sums are due to the fact that expenditures in education and healthcare
    are totally protectedfrom the ups and downs o f the economic cycle.

57. Law 715 guarantees these sectors will have growing and stable resources until 2008. The new
    organization o f the system makes it possible to correct the inequality among regions, duplication
    o f functions and the explosion in the costs o f services, which were not reflected in greater
    coverage or better quality. The new model for distribution o f responsibilities and allocation o f
    resources awards greater autonomy to the regions and generates a clear system o f incentives in
    order to raise the quality o f services as well as the efficiency with which they are provided. This



                                                    56

    brings about transparency inthe process, along with social follow-up and control and facilitates
    planning o f finances and o fthe investment levels for the territorial entities.

58. The funding for education will be used in order to provide for 7.4 million pre-school, primary
    and secondary school students and 340 thousand more in higher education as well as to provide
    for more than 11 million people in the subsidized regimen. In employment and social security,
    the major share will be directedtowards fulfilling development ofthe pensionsystem.

59. The program for social assistance entrusted to the ICBF will serve 1.4 million childrenunder the
    age of 7 in communal homes, providing them with 73% o f their daily nutritional requirements
    and 8 hours o f daycare. At the same time, the school cafeterias will be in charge of providing
   breakfast, lunch and a fortified snack for 2.5 million children and adolescents.

60. Likewise, the programs that make up the Social Support Network (RAS, from its initials in
    Spanish) will be subjected to rigorous evaluation o f their impacts and established criteria for
    entry and exit whose results will be reviewed by the Government in 2004 with the aim of
    determining whether they are to be part o fpermanent social protection programs.

            A. EDUCATION

61. Education i s an essential factor in human, social and economic development and a basic
    instrument for building social justice. It i s therefore worrisome that, in spite of making efforts
    andundeniable advances, Colombia has not been able to achieve universal access to quality basic
    education. Indicators for coverage, efficiency and quality show that progress has been slow and
    insufficient and that, often times, increases in coverage have been obtained at the expense o f
    quality. Lack o f education constitutes one o f the substantial factors behind the persistent
    inequality and concentration o f opportunities.

62. Educational coverage and quality are the most important factors for assuring a country's
    competitiveness. Social and economic development are directly associated with increased
   productivity and the latter depends on adequate interactionbetween improvements in technology
    and the growth o f education and of the skills o f the workforce. Experience shows that countries
    able to develop orderly interactions, with linear, rapid and balanced transitions, achieve more
    accelerated and sustainable increases in productivity and growth. This implies the need to apply
    policies that guarantee linear and gradual increases in coverage and quality for the different
    educational levels.

63. The strategy o fthe Educational Revolution seeks to respondto the needs for coverage and quality
    requiredby this country in order to attain better conditions o f social and economic development
    and improve the population's quality o f life. The policy for enlarging coverage at the preschool,
   basic and intermediate levels i s aimed at raising gross coverage from 82% to 92% through the
    creation of 1.5 million places for students, giving special attention to the most vulnerable
   population segments while seeking greater equality inthe provision o f this service.

    This will be achieved through implementationo fvarious complementary efforts:

        Strengthening o f the reorganization process o f the departmental and municipal entities with
        the goal o f attaining a better balance and equity in the distribution o f physical, human and



                                                    57

        financial resources as well as optimizing utilizationo f existing capacity while giving priority
        to the number o f children served. The goal is to generate 800,000 new places through
        development of this mechanism. Additionally, the students to teacher ratio has been
        augmented by 1.6 students per teacher from 2002 to 2003 in public schools, thus increasing
        from 26 to 27.6. This i s proof of the efficiency achieved by the educational sector thanks to
        the process o f reorganizationo f human, physical and financial resources.

        The creation of 640,000 new places in the educational system by means of the use o f
        resources resulting from the fiscal savings due to abolition of the territorial comptrollers'
        offices and representatives in accordance with the Project for Political Reform o f the State
        and other additional resources. The Constitutional Court's recent decision to approve holding
        the Referendum, scheduled for late October o f 2003, opens up the possibility o f incrementing
        resources for the educational sector. However, given the possibility that the Referendum
        could be voted down, it has beenagreed that the government will continue to allocate 31.59%
        o f the National Royalty Fund in order to increase coverage in the same manner as was done
        in2003.

        Competition for entry into the new system for career teachers will be regulatedin accordance
        with the process for organizing teaching staffs.

        Support projects that favor demand, increase retention rates and improve the efficiency o f the
        educational system will be put inmotion.

64. With respect to higher education, the Government will promote access with equality by
    implementing three mechanisms for retentionand enrollment o f 400,000 students: i)a program in
    which new financing plans will be created to benefit lower income students and which will
    motivate improvement o f educational quality and be supported by credit resources.

65. With the aim of improving educational quality, the Government will provide support for the
    territorial entities and their educational institutions intheir processeso f institutional improvement
    and management in order to ensure that those being educated develop basic, professional,
    vocational and citizenship skills. In line with this, between October 2002 and April 2003
    1,037,000 mathematics and language tests were administered to students in grades 5 and 9 in
    90% of the country's municipalities. During 2004, additional tests for the same grades will be
    administered with respect to scientific thought and the duties of citizens in 90% of the
    municipalities.

66. In this context, modernization o f the sector's administration and management at the national,
    departmental and municipal levels will be pursued. To this end, four mechanisms oriented
   towards improving productivity, efficiency and transparency of the sector while ensuring the
    quality o f investments will be developed: i)institutional modernization o f the Ministry of
   Education; ii)modernization of the departmental and municipal entities; iii)agreement on
   Management and Performance Plans; and iv) development of the information system o f the
    educational sector. The Ministry o f Education i s working on the design and implementation o f an
    information system that will allow the government to have an instrument for facilitating decision-
   making and policy design. This system includes modules for: i)enrollment; ii)payroll; iii)staff;
   and iv) a directory ofpublic schools and will be implemented duringthe first semester o f 2004.




                                                     58

67. In the rural sector, extension o f coverage and improvement o f educational quality i s being
    implemented through the "Education Project for the Rural Sector," or PER, from its initials in
    Spanish, which i s being financed by an investment loan from the World Bank. This project
    develops innovative educational models for quality and relevance for the rural sector. Inline with
    this, 7 educational options have been evaluated and adopted and are currently being
    .
    implemented:
    ..  Inbasic primary education: New School andthe Programfor AcceleratedLearning
        Inbasic secondary education: Tele-Secondary and RuralPost-Primary
        For young people and adults: the Tutorial learning System (SAT); the Rural Educational
        Service (SER) and the CAFAM Program

68. The PER at this moment i s operating in 12 departments with diverse levels o f development and
    has brought about some 1,500 experiences with these models (through demand or supply). It
    fimctions by means o f Departmental Strategic Alliances and Municipal Operative Units, with a
    UnitCoordinator inthe MEN.

            B.HEAL RE THCA

69. The principal objective i s to increase the coverage o f protection and social security policies and
    provide preferential attention for the needs o f the most vulnerable population groups.
    Enlargement o f coverage o f the subsidized regime will be obtained through transformation o f
    subsidies from supply to demand. In this manner, the public hospitals' capacity to finance their
    expenses through the sale o f services will be increased. As a supplementary issue, greater
    collection o f resources on the part o f the National Government and the entities will be sought and
    an adjustment will be made in the structure o f financing sources.

70. With regard to the General System o f Social Security in Healthcare (SGSSS, from its initials in
    Spanish), mechanisms to guarantee the System's financial stability will be implemented in order
    to increase coverage and quality in the provision o f healthcare services on the different levels and
    categories. In particular, in the field o f public health the goal i s to increase coverage for
    vaccinations, reduce the incidence o f malaria and dengue, decrease child and maternal mortality,
    prevent adolescent pregnancies and deal with sexually transmitted diseases. Finally, it is sought
    to apply a pension policy that i s to avoid financial imbalances, improve coverage and implement
    mechanisms aimed at covering debts in the area o f pensions so as to guarantee intra- and inter-
    generational equality.

71. Assistance and protection for the most vulnerable groups will be provided by means o f
    coordination o f programs for social assistance and protection through implementation o f the
    Social Risk System (SSR), which will be able to count on a reformed Sisben as a principal
    instrument for targeting. Special attention will be given to the needs o f the displacedpopulation.

72. With respect to public health, the priority goal is to obtain and sustain coverage in usehl
   vaccination to a level above 95% in children below the age o f 5, in all o f the biological
    immunizations o f the enlarged vaccination program. To reach this goal, the Government will
    guarantee the necessary resources in the General Budget o f the State for the purpose o f acquiring
   the biological vaccines in each category as well as ensuring adequate distribution and
   conservation. It will also develop strategies needed for achieving useful vaccination coverage.



                                                     59

73. One such strategy i s the approval o f the appropriate regulations requiring an immunization card
     for children enrolled inpublic or private schools or day care centers.

74. Restructuring and transformation o f public hospitals, so as to facilitate self-sustainability and
     better performance in the market, i s justified by the fact that hospital performance, in addition to
     having a remarkable effect on current territorial finances, will also, if it continues unchanged,
     become fiscally unsustainable and generate huge debts, at enormous cost to the country. The
     reasons for not having greater insurance coverage derive mainly from sustaining hospital
     expenses that grew more than the public hospitals' capacity to finance them by means o f the sale
     o f services and from the sector's increased resources. This increase in costs not only affects the
     financial viability o f the institutions themselves but has also delayed transformation o f the
     subsidies and the increased coverage on the part o f the subsidized regime while at the same time
    becoming the principal factor in causing accumulation in the territorial non-financial public
     sector deficit.2.

75. In this manner, efforts to transform the public hospitals' structure of expenditures and modernize
    their organizational and managerial set-ups will be reflected over the medium term in a
     substantial reduction o f the operational deficit and accumulated deficit. However, the magnitude
    o f the results depends on how aggressive the policy o f modernization i s interms o f the size o f the
    restructuring and the time that the process takes. Inaccordance with these factors, there could be
    a savings o f as much as 0.1% o f GNP at the end o f the four-year period.

76. Along with the strategy for adjustment and modernization, the system must modify current
    incentives that contribute towards growth in hospital spending. Apart from eliminating the
    demand for additional resources from transfers, public hospitals need to make progress in
    justifying their income through implementation o f modes o f payment other than direct transfer.
    These must be consistent with the quantity and value o f services that are actually provided.

77. The country's fiscal situation imposes significant restrictions upon more rapid and consistent
    progress in extending insurance coverage. In the subsidized regime, resources for co-financing
    available in the Fosyga solidarity sub-account must assign priority to guaranteeing continuity o f
    the affiliation achieved as well as co-finance an increase in new places, to the extent possible and
    inaccordance withbudgetarypossibilities.

78. On the other hand, efforts made in financing healthcare insurance must be accompanied by
    improvements in access to and quality o f services. Regulation based on quality i s an essential
    strategy of the system. In this sense, with the issuance o f the new regulatory framework with
    respect to quality, the system will be able to make progress in developing systems to ensure
    quality and continuous improvement on the part o f insurers and providers and with the aim o f
    protectingusers.




 According to the Bank of the Republic, "the deficit accumulated by the non-financial territorial sector in 2001 is to a large
extent explained as resulting from the decentralized entities, which had increased levels of expenditure, especially at the
department level. This level of the administration as a whole had a deficit of 656.5 billion pesos. Thepublic hospital institutions
accounted for the largest deficit (596 billion pesos)." Bank of the Republic (Banco de la Repliblica). Office o f the
Undersecretaryfor Economic Studies-Office of PublicFinance. Medellin, June, 2002.


                                                               60

79. In addition, a Licensing System (Sistema de Acreditacibn)              will be put in operation to
   demonstrate and evaluate evidence o f higher quality o f services by IPS and ARS and to generate
   mechanisms for the recognition of and dissemination o f said evidence.

80. To summarize, by means o f the strategy outlined above, Colombia is taking significant steps
   towards resolution o f the main problems in its social sector. The Government i s committed to
    carrying out these policy changes and ensuring continuity o f the process o f rationalization and
    extension of the social protection network.

            C. TARGETING

81. With respect to the targeting o f social spending, there are still inefficiencies and inequalities
   arising from factors such as: lack of information, leaks o f a political nature, mechanisms for
   control and supervision that are o f little effectiveness, lack o f social control and regulation o f the
   targeted programs. In spite o f these limitations, it i s absolutely necessary to direct social spending
   towards the poorest and most vulnerable social groups. To this end, there i s a need to maintain,
    adjust and consolidate targeting strategies for such social services as healthcare, education,
   housing and potable water.

82. Incompliance with the legal code, Law 715 o f 2001 and the recommendations o f Conpes Social
   Document 055, the DNP undertook the task o f updating the system o f individual targeting. To
   this end, it carried out the design and validation o f this new instrument and o f the mechanisms for
    quality and software control, as well as for drawing up technical manuals and training support
   personnel. At the same time, a framework for sanctions inorder to deal with punishable offenses
    derived from mismanagement of the SISBEN has been designed.

83. The National Government foresees, over a period o f less than a year and a half and starting in
    January of 2003, carrying out training o f the territorial entities, setting up quality controls and
    undertaking a new survey in all o f the country's municipalities. This instrument will make public
    spendingmore efficient and will also target emergency programs for employment, for the Social
    Support Network and those o f the Social System o f Risk.

            D.POLICY ONTHEINTERNALLYDISPLACED

84. Forced displacement constitutes the country's principal humanitarian problem and represents one
    o f the gravest violations o f Colombians' human, civil and political rights. Displacement i s a
    phenomenon that aggravates the situation o f vulnerability and exclusion o f the persons and
    families affected. According to the Social Solidarity Network, while 54% of the homes o f those
    who have not been displaced are in a situation o f vulnerability and exclusion, the figure for the
    homes o f the displaced i s 85%.

85. From the point o f view o f population segments, according to official statistics, between 1995 and
    June o f 2002 approximately 890,000 people were displaced and the groups most affected were
    women and children, in that it i s estimated that 48% are women and 44% are minors, school-age
    boys and girls. At the same time, 20.5% o f the displaced are members o f ethnic groups, o f which
    17.7% are from the Afro-Colombian population and 3.75% are from the indigenous population.

86. Geographically, displacement has been expanding. While 480 municipalities were affected in
    2000 by events o f reception or expulsion of the population, 819 were affected in 2001 and


                                                    61

    approximately 900 in 2002. Thus 87% o f the national territory has been affected by
    displacement, out o f which 102 municipalities have been identified as critical.

87. In order to deal with this situation, the Government will take action with respect to four basic
    components: i)prevention and protection; ii)emergency attention; iii)generation of conditions
    for re-settlement and iv) strengthening o fthe national system for comprehensive assistance.

88. Prevention will seek to opportunely detect and neutralize displacement in areas o f the country
    where there i s evidence of greater vulnerability o f the population and, equally, will seek to
    strengthen local response capacity in order to prevent its effects. On the one hand, the current
    early warning system will be strengthened so as to facilitate opportune evaluation of objective
    conditions o f risk and thus anticipate displacement events. On the other hand, humanitarian
    assistance will be provided to victims of the conflict who have suffered the death of a family
    member, permanent disability, wounds or property loss; aid for educationwill be given to minors
   and psychosocial attentionwill be provided for emotional recovery o f the victims. Lastly, support
   will also be provided for rebuilding social infrastructure and housing by means o f plans for
    subsidy or financing o f replacement or repair o f property. The specific goal for 2006 is
    reconstruction of more than 5,000 homes destroyed interrorist acts and o f basic structures in 90
    municipalities. We also hope to provide assistance for 15,000 families who have suffered the loss
    o f a family member interrorist acts.

89. In relation to emergency humanitarian assistance, preferential assistance will be provided for
    vulnerable groups by attempting to give them immediate aid that will make it possible to
    overcome conditions of vulnerability while providingbasic social services to cover the needs for
    aid and subsistence. Temporary provision of nutritional assistance, shelter and healthcare along
    with temporary settlements having basic services and healthcare under minimum quality
    standards are foreseen. Attention involving emergency humanitarian assistance for 200,000
    families has been projected.

90. With respect to re-settlement, the fundamental emphasis will be oriented towards fostering
    opportunities for return of the displaced population to their places o f origin, while taking into
    account their wishes, and recognition o f economic, social and cultural rights. In order to achieve
    this, during the 2002-2006 period the National Government will place special emphasis on
    generating conditions o f dignity and security for voluntary return o f the population to their places
    o f origin. This plan will be based upon: a) a plan for subsidized housing; b) promotion o f
    processes for conferring property titles; c) support for productive projects and income generation,
    and d) promotion o f productive training plans. Specific goals for 2006 call for the return o f
    30,000 displaced families.

91. Finally, the National Council for Assistance for the Displaced Population as the principal
    instance for coordination and interlocution of the diverse sectors o f the State will meet regularly,
    having responsibility or capacity to contribute to solving the problem. Within the framework o f
   the system, the regional and local councils for assistance for displacement will be strengthened
    and active participation inthem by the affected populations will be encouraged.

92. Also, such tools for support o f the system as the National Information Network, particularly the
    Sole System for Registry      ( S U R ) and the System for Estimation o f the Magnitude of the
   Displacement, as well as the early warning system and the follow-up system, as well as with



                                                   62

    mechanisms for evaluating the policy for prevention and assistance for forced displacement, will
    be strengthened.

                V. TRANSPARENCY,EVALUATIONAND SOCIAL CONTROL

93. In a context o f serious fiscal restrictions, the National Government has proposed to modernize
   public management and modify the institutional organization in order to achieve the goals o f the
   National Development Plan with effectiveness, efficiency and transparency.               This implies
    incorporating new practices that would engage the citizens in the different phases of
    administration o f the State as well as strengthening managerial instruments in order to orient
   public administration towards the achievement of results that would improve the population's
    living conditions.

94. At this time, information on operation and impacts o f the principal policies and programs i s
    meager and, as a result, decisions as to whether to prolong, suspend, substitute or modifi a
   program, which usually come with a change o f government, disregard the factors for success
    andor failure o f these programs. This situation leads to policy decision-making based on
    incomplete information that exaggeratedly increases the costs o f actions on the part o f the State,
    diminish the Government's impact and credibility and at the same time limits learning and
    strengthening on the part ofthe entities.

95. At the same time, lack of a widespread and suitable system for dissemination of the results has
    limited the scope o f the National System for Evaluation o f the Results o f Public Management
    (SINERGIA, from its initials in Spanish) and has not allowed it to operate as such. This
    deficiency has also served to deny it ongoing feedback from those entities under evaluation as
    well as from interventions on the part o f the State while at the same time reducing the system's
    potential as an instrument for reporting to the citizenry.

96. Therefore, a component for targeted evaluations will be incorporated into the National System
    for Evaluation o f the Results o f Public Management (SINERGIA) and a system will be put into
    operation for disseminating the results of the evaluation and o f the fulfillment o f sectorial
    commitments.

97. The establishment o f institutional conditions to guarantee that evaluations on the impact of social
    programs are periodically carried out has implications that are determining factors in the policy
    planning, formulation and adjustment processes and in the budgeting o f public resources.
    Evaluations of impact make it possible to determine and quantify the effects that the programs
    have on their beneficiaries as well as to establish whether these interventions are the most
    efficient as compared to other actions, given the investmentsmade. In this manner, they become
    tools for ensuring that allocation o f public resources can be made through effective and efficient
   programs for the fight against poverty and the formation o f human and social capital and so that
    the results constantly produce feedback for the cycles o f planning, budgeting, formulation and
    execution o f policies and programs for public investment. The government will therefore seek to
    establish mechanisms to reinforce the carrying out o f evaluations on a periodical basis.

98. With regardto targeted evaluations, the goal i s to increase knowledge and information in relation
   to the evolution, use o f resources and actual impact on the beneficiaries o f the principal programs
    and policies o f the State. The ultimate objective o f these evaluations i s to adjust and/or reorient
    policies, programs, instruments and institutions in order to ensure that goals are achieved or


                                                    63

    exceeded as well as to consolidate a result-oriented management model at the service o f the
    citizenry.

99. The evaluations will be defined through mutual agreement between the entities and the National
   Department o f Planning. The DNP will also be responsible for coordinating the processes for
    selection and contracting as well as for defining sources o f funding and costs o f the evaluations.
   Policies and programs that are the object o f targeted evaluations will be selected in accordance
   with their importance in the government plan. The main criteria used to define them will be: i)
   the amount o f public resources involved and the potential savings for the State; ii)the size and
   characteristics o f the affected population; iii)the expected effect on the country's economic
   dynamic and the potential for mobilizing private sector resources; iv) its importance ingenerating
   employment and income among the poorest and most vulnerable part o f the population, v)
   replicability and expansion and vi) the introduction o f new management models.

100.    At the same time, a disseminating plan will be put into operation by means o f which the
   results o f follow-up on the commitments established by the entities through the Conpes, as well
   as the results of the evaluations targeted at the various government programs, will be made
   known. Specifically, the system will make use o f widely circulated printed media, discussion fora
   involving participation on the part o f the citizenry and academia and electronic distribution o f
   this information as its principal channels o fdiffusion.

101.    In order to achieve the above, the system's design will take into account the experience
   gained through the program Bogotci Como Vamos (Bogota, H o w Are W e Doing?) as well as
   other national and international programs o f this type, which have been proved effective in
   fulfillment o f this objective. Similarly, the Government, through the DNP, will seek to establish
   partnerships with the private sector and organizations o f the civil society that would guarantee
   the transparency and credibility that a system o f this nature requires while ensuring its
   sustainability. Once in operation, this diffusion will place particular emphasis on those entities
   that have shown themselves to be outstanding due to their excellent progress in achieving results.

102.    The government, by means o f the DNP, will hold a forum in early 2004 in commemoration
   o f the ten years o f Sinergia, in which it will show the system's evolution while emphasizing its
   current developments. At the same time, it will seek to stimulate demand for the system's
   products, publicize its catalog o f products and services and generate discussion on the future o f
   the System o f Evaluation. This forum will include the participation o f Colombian specialists in
   addition to experts on evaluation systems from other countries.

103.    Inconcluding, by means o fjoining together components for follow-up, targeted evaluations
   and difksion, the National Development Plan seeks to consolidate the National System for
   Evaluation o f Results while converting it into a tool that will make it possible to increase the
   effectiveness and transparency o f State management, increase efficiency in its spending,
   modernize public administration, improve the design o f government policies and programs and
   involve the citizens inthe diverse phases o f administration.




                                                   64

                                  Annex 111: SocialIssues and Challenges

1.      This annex lays out ingreater detail the social issues and challenges discussed inSection I1o fthe
main text o f the Program Document, starting with concerns regarding the need to develop the skills and
knowledge o f Colombian workers to be competitive in a global economy that is rapidly changing
technologically.

2.      The Closing the Gap in Education and Technology report (World Bank, 2003) demonstrates that
the interaction between education, job training, and technology is key for economic growth, suggesting
that Colombia cannot benefit from the technological innovations in the world today if skilled labor to
complement this technology is not available. Unfortunately, like many other Latin American countries,
the report shows that Colombia lags behindits East Asian competitors ineducation coverage and quality,
despite the fact that it spends more on education as a percentage o f GDP.

3.      The relatively low skills o f the labor force and the small marginal gains to educational
investments may be responsible for a "low level technology trap" where the lack o f labor discourages
investment in technology, thus limiting economic growth. To break out o f the low-level trap, Colombia
needs to increase its secondary education coverage, raise school quality at all levels, and improve
complementary skill training programs to encourage investment intechnology and to better benefit from
technological progress. This i s a particular challenge since increases in education spending in Colombia
seem to have had little impact on attendance rates or quality. Fundamentally, this means that GOC has to
increase the efficiency by which existing public resources allocated to education and training are being
used.

Job Training Issues

4.      Formal and informal (on-the-job) vocational training are two o f the primary sources o f labor
market skills, which lead to higher wages for workers and greater productivity for firms. Formal job
training in Colombia occurs through three primary channels: public training programs, private training
programs, and firms. Firms pay a tax to the federal government that i s earmarked to fund the public
training programs; the benefits o f these taxes are returned to the firms and the workers through publicly
provided human capital accumulation activities, primarily through SENA.30 Although SENA services are
enjoyed by nearly one million workers each year (approximately 20 percent o f all job training), the
existing vocational training system, includingbothpublic and private entities, faces several shortcomings:

         The skill level of Colombian workers: a constraint to productivity. Half o f the employers in
        Colombia believe that the work force is not sufficiently trained. Colombia's increased integration
        inthe global economy demands higher skill levels of its workers.31 However, there is a shortage
        o f skilled workers who complement modern productionmethodologies, as evidenced by the rapid
        increase inthe wages o f highlyskilledworkers and by firmperception surveys.32

     0  Mismatch between publicly-provided training courses and skill demands. Publicly-provided
        training could better meet the skill demands o f the market invarious ways. First, course offerings


30SENA, Colombia's largest public training programwith nearly 900,000 students annually, was developedin 1964
and designed for a closed economy that was mostly comprised of agriculture or manufacturingjobs, slow to
technological change, and relatively homogenous. SENA was overhauled in 1991, but it, and public training
p;ograms in general, still do not realizetheir fill potential.
  De Ferranti,et. al. (2003).
32LopezCastario, Hugo (2001); Barreraand Corchuela(inprogress).


                                                           65

         could match the skill needs in the modem Colombian economy. For example, SENA's market
         analysis that i s used to select the menu o f vocational training course offerings i s based on
        historical data, thus reflecting past trends rather than current and future needs o f the market.
        Second, the provision o f up-to-the-minute vocational training programs is costly. Skill demands
         are rapidly changing and the technology used inthe most lucrative fields i s expensive and quickly
         evolving. Since vocational training must be up-to-date, frequent investments in hardware and
         software are necessary since many specific production methods are obsolete after only a few
         years. Third, public training courses do not consider differential skill demands across Colombia.
         The types o f courses offered are largely standardized across the country, which eases course
         development at the central level, but does not meet the local needs o f workers or firms. These
         shortcomings are symptomatic o f the limited communication o f the needs o f firms and workers
         on one side and the course offerings and curriculum on the other side.

        Financial ineficiencies inpublic trainingprograms. Current public training programs do not use
         allocated resources efficiently. First, basing budget allocations on historical rather than future
        training demands necessarily leads to a misallocation o f resources as new initiatives are under-
         funded while outdated programs are well funded. Second, funding based on historical data does
        not allow for targeting o f specific populations as economic or social situations change. Third, the
         per student cost o fpublic sector training is higher than private training programs inColombia.33

        Need to utilize private training programs more. Training by the private sector leads to higher
         rates o f retum than training by the public sector. The rate o f return to training in private
         institutions is greater than that o f SENA and other public training courses, which have begun to
         show low, or even negative, returns in recent years.34The challenge for GOC i s how to take
         advantage o f efficient private providers to deliver publicly-financedtrainingprograms.

         Poor targeting of trainingprograms. Approximately 20 percent o f each income quintilehas taken
         training courses, with the exception o f the top wealth quintile, where 15 percent have taken
         training. Private training programs tend to attract higher skilled students from higher income
         quintiles. While public training programs attract a larger number o f low skilled workers, the
         typical student i s 24 years old, more than half have completed secondary school, and 50 percent
         are from families inthe top 40 percent o f the income distribution-thus      missingyouth, the poor,
         and the unskilledwho are the most vulnerable to ~nemployment.~~


     0   Informality of mostjob matching. Training programs are numerous, but information asymmetries
         are prohibitive to job search. Most jobs are obtained through informal networks, which are
         particularlyweak for the young, women, and internally displaced populations who tend to be less
         tiedto their local labor market.36

5.       Overall, a comprehensive skills development strategy i s lacking. Instead, many entities-both
public and private-offer     similar service with the associated inefficiencies in financing, service delivery,
and outputs.



33Jaime Tenjo (inprogress)``Supply andDemandofTraining," LCSHSiWorldBank.
34 Alejandro Gaviria and Jairo Nunez. (2002) "Evaluating the Impact of SENA on Eamings and Employment,"
World BanWLCSHD, draft and Barrera, Felipe and Alejandra Corchuela (in progress) "SENA Retums: A Re-
evaluation." The econometric methodology controls for selection bias by training firms so these results are not
likely due to a moreskilledtrainingclass inprivate than in SENA trainingcourses.
35Ibid.
36LopezCastaiio, Hugo(2001).


                                                        66

EducationIssues

6.       As mentioned above, Colombia lags behind other comparable countries in education coverage
and quality, specifically with lags in secondary education coverage and instudent learning a~hievement.~'
The private returns to education are highand increa~ing.~~         Giventhe already relatively highpercentage of
GDP allocated to education,39the fundamental challenge i s to achieve educational improvements through
more effective and efficient use o f existing educational resources.

7.       Coverage, illiteracy, and educational attainment. In general, the GOC recognizes the need to
address the lack o f universal basic education coverage and to improve the quality and efficiency o f the
education system. While the gross enrollment rate at the primary level was over 100 percent in 2001, the
net primary enrollment rate was only 82.4 percent, down from 84.2 percent in 1999. The net secondary
enrollment rate was only 63.4 percent and only 15.4 percent inhigher education. Enrollment rates among
children 7-11 years o f age are high, at 94 percent (slightly higher for females, 95 percent, than for males,
93 percent). However, for 12-17 year-olds, enrollment rates are only 75 percent and have not changed
much over the last four years.

8.       Worrisome level of promotion rates. While overall promotion rates have been increasing over
time, the transition from first to second grade is only 72.5 percent. In urban areas the promotion rate i s
almost 86 percent, while inrural areas, it i s only 56 percent. Promotion rates actually declined from 1997-
1998 to 1998-1999. Although the rates improved insubsequentyears, by that time, repetition and dropout
took their toll. The first grade repetition rate was 9.7 percent in 1999, up from 8.7 percent in 1998. In
rural areas, the repetition rate was 13 percent, versus seven percent inurban schools. In 1998, the dropout
rate in the first grade was almost 18 percent (19 percent inpublic schools, 13 percent in private schools,
eight percent inurban areas and 31 percent inrural schools).

9.       The level of education continues to increase for the adult population, from 6.7 years in 1996 to
7.4 years in 2001, an 11percent increase. Unfortunately, seven years o f schooling compares unfavorably
to more advanced countries, transition countries, and many countries with lower levels o f GDP in Latin
America.40For age 15 and above, average years o f education in Colombia is only 5.3 years, compared to
Argentina with 8.8 years, Panamawith 8.6, and Chile, PeruandUruguay with 7.6.

10.      Educational equity remains an important issue, although the equity between men and women i s
noteworthy. Inregional capitals, the average level o f schooling i s 8.4 years, but only 4.6 years inthe rest
o f the country. Moreover, while the illiteracy rate is only 4.5 percent in regional capitals, it reaches 16
percent in the rest o f the country (the rate o f adult illiteracy continues to decline, from nine percent in
1996 to 7.5 percent in2001).




3'Closingthe Gap in Education and Technoloa, World Bank.
38 The overall rate o f return has increased over time, from eight percent in 1982 to over 11 percent in 2000. The
returns to primary education, estimated at 8.6 percent for 2000, have been increasing over time (from 7.4 percent in
1982), while the returns to secondary education have fallen from 8.5 percent in 1982 to 7.7 percent (or five percent
according to an alternative analysis); but the highest returns are for tertiary education, estimated to be more than 18
percent per year -this estimate i s high from an historical perspective (up from 9 percent in 1982) and a comparative
perspective (returns to higher education range from 11 to 22 percent in some Latin American countries).
39This is reflected inthe fact that education spending accounts for 4.1 percent o f GDP -up from 3.6 percent in 1995
-which compares to an OECD average of five percent andvery similar to average spending by middle-income
countries (Argentina, 4.5 percent; Chile, 4.2 percent; and Mexico, 4.4 percent).
40Barro-Lee data set, for the schooling level o f the 15 year old and above population.


                                                           67

11.     Low quality ofeducation. National achievement test results indicate that quality is decreasing, the
quality o f private schools is better than public schools, and the difference i s widening. The percentage o f
schools with low achievement has increased from 30 percent inthe 1980s to 50 percent in the 1990s. Of
the 186 schools in 1998 in the top decile o f the test, 94 percent were private schools. A majority o f
students in primary schools have an academic level below that o f their age level. The performance o f
Colombian students on the recent UNESCO/OREALC assessment was broadly on par with their
counterparts in Brazil and Mexico, and in a median position when compared with other countries in the
region. Also, relative to other countries, Colombian education i s much better in rural areas, mainly in
math, due in part to the success o f the Escuela Nueva model. However, when comparing mathematics
scores with countries outside the region, the standards o f the region are considerably low. Colombia
participated inTIMSS (Third International Math and Science Study) in 1995 and ranked second to last o f
40 countries participating in math. Reading results are not much better. Colombia also scored near the
bottom in PIRLS (Progress in International Reading Literacy Study) in 2001. The reasons for low
education quality can be summarized as: poor quality o f teachers, inadequate pedagogical supervision,
need for curriculum reform, poor quality o f school environment, ineffective assessment system, and
teacher absenteeism.

12.     InefJicient resource use. Schools in Colombia are inefficient in both the production o f quality
services (measured by outcomes such as test scores) and quantity (number of students). Public schools
produce lower scores than private schools, even after controlling for socioeconomic characteristics.
Teachers' education and infrastructure positively affect scores in private schools, but not in public
schools, suggesting inefficiencies in public education. Policy variables at the municipal levels do not
influence the efficiency o f schools. After controlling for other factors, rural schools are, on average, more
efficient than urban schools. But the largest differences exist betweenprivate and public schools. Public
schools are, on average, five percent less efficient than private schools and public school teachers earn 15
percent more than comparable private school teachers. Therefore, much can be gained by increasing
efficiency inpublic schools.

Health ReformIssues

13.     The health reform o f 1993 (Law 100/93), amended recently by Law 715, calls for a
transformation o f health services financing and basic services provision. The Uribe administration faces
the continuing challenge o f completing the implementation o f the envisioned health systemreform, which
seeks to separate health care finance from provision o f services. In addition, the administration needs to
ensure that it will achieve close to universal immunizationo f children at the endo f its term.

14.     Recovering progress towards universal vaccination. One o f the most important public health
issues in Colombia i s the need to further strengthen the country's system o f protection against
communicable diseases. In the past, Colombia was a leader in prevention activities, and the Ministry o f
Health (MOH) established the Expanded Program o f Immunization (Programa Ampliado de
Inmunizaciones, PAI) as a national priority. In1995, Colombia achieved coverage levels o f 90 percent or
more for all routine vaccines. However, since 1997, coverage levels for all vaccines have declined to
below 80 percent. Both financial and institutional factors appear to be the underlying causes for the
decline inthe performance o f the vaccination program. Inadequate funding for the vaccination effort has
resulted in shortages in personnel and supplies. At the same time, there was a lack of clarity regarding
which entity was responsible (national or territorial) for the implementation o f the vaccination program.
Since 2001, funds have been made available to beginto address the problem, and further budget space is
sought for future budget years to regainthe highvaccination rates by 2006.

15.     Lack ofhealth insurance coveragefor thepoor. The health reform calls for a system where the
health care subsidy i s used to finance health insurance coverage for the poor and away from supply


                                                      68

 subsidies where hospitals receive public resources based on historical budgets. Inthis scheme, the patient
 has the freedom to select medical services and payment will made by the insurers (EPSs and ARSs). The
 subsidy to the insurers is provided inaccordance with a predeterminedper capita amount called the UPC
 (Unidad de Pago por Capitacidn, UPC). The transformation, which i s intended to increase health sector
 efficiency, is supposed to be budget neutral-a    critical point, considering that Colombia already spends a
 highpercentage o fits GDP on health care.

 16.      Implementation o f the transformation has moved very slowly, and is nearly stalled, due to
 pressure to continue financing public hospitals through supply subsidies. This has created a vicious circle
 since increased affiliation o f the poor to the subsidized health insurance regime has been limited due to
 lack o f funds, which in turn have been tied to direct hospital subsidies supposedly to provide services to
the poor.

 17.      In1993,itwas estimatedthat about30percent ofthe Colombianpopulation shouldbeeligiblefor
affiliation in the Subsidized Regime. The data o f the Ministry o f Social Protection show that currently
there are 11.4 million individuals affiliated with the Subsidized Regime, representing around 26 percent
o f the total population. The MSP challenge i s to increase the number o f affiliates by an additional five
million individuals by 2006. This would bring the number o f affiliates up to 16 million and close to the
one third o f the population in2006.

 18.      The need to improve the efficiency of public hospitals. Public hospitals, in general, are highly
inefficient. They cost more than private providers and the quality o f services is not better. To improve the
efficiency o fpublic hospitals, the healthreform law (Law 100193) mandates financing operations through
the sale o f services to EPSs and ARSs4'-in competition with private providers. During the transition
period, public hospitals are responsible for the delivery o f health care services to poor individuals that
have yet to affiliate to the ARS. Moreover, public hospitals continue to receive their budgets from the
regional entities (departamentos), based on the previous year's expenditures, and expect to be bailed out
when they run into deficits. From 1996 to 1999, a total o f Colombian peso $46,500 million (in 2000
pesos) was transferred to public hospitals through supply subsidies. These resources represented 51.4
percent o f the total available resources o f FOSYGA, the health care sector fund, for the year 2000.4*This
type o f scheme does not provide any incentives to public hospitals to reduce costs and/or provide better
services. Breaking out o f this vicious circle i s a significant challenge that requires the development o f
incentives and the capacity to compete with private providers.

 19.      Needfor client-oriented health information system. Public information is a key factor to support
the main principles of the managed competition health care system envisioned by the health reform law.
Underthe system, individuals have the ability to choose their insurer and health care provider (among the
network of providers offered by their insurer). They should also be empowered with appropriate and
timely information to be able to make informed choices. Inpractice, health care consumers frequently do
not have the information that would allow them to compare different insurers and providers. This i s an
important issue since the Colombian systemi s based on quality rather than price ~ompetition.~~




4` Empresas Promotoras de Salud or EPSs are the insuranceentities of the Contributory Regime; Administradoras
del Rigimen Subsidiado or ARSs are the insurance entities ofthe SubsidizedRegime.
42 `Health' in Colombia, theEconomicFoundation ofpeace, The WorldBank,2003.
43 Insurance contributionsand co-paymentsdo not vary amonginsurersandor providers; they are definedby taking
intoaccount the socio-economiccharacteristicsofthe individual.


                                                       69

Social Protection in an Environment of Uncertainty

20.      The administration appropriately considers social protection as a wider concept than just social
assistance and envisions the role o f MSP as the efficient and equitable management o f all social risks and
their consequences. Moreover, the optimal management of these risks, which include ill health,
unemployment, declining real wages, and dropping out o f school, requires a range o f policy actions to
prevent, mitigate, and cope with risk. With this more expansive definition o f social risk management, its
implementation i s a challenging task. Nevertheless, the development o f an integrated social risk
management systemi s integral to better social protection.

21.      Need for a uniJied social protection strategy. There are many social protection programs in
Colombia. The main problem is that they do not form one comprehensive and coherent social risk
management system. Instead, they have emerged in an ad hoc manner, leading to duplication o f
programs, poor targeting o f services, competing incentives, and general inefficiency. Organizing and
focusing the programs are necessary to improve social protection services, particularly given the fiscally
constrainedenvironment.

22.      Whether the risk i s losing one's health, losing one's job, or watching one's real wages erode, the
mechanisms to address these risks are highly inter-connected. The result o f treating the labor, health, and
social safety net programs as independent from each other, as Colombia has done until recently, i s
competing incentives and less efficient programs. For example, payroll taxes @arafiscales) that are used
to finance social assistance that do not directly benefit the workers can lead to lower employment. Laws
that impose high minimum wages and disproportionate pension benefits to protect workers from
exploitation can lead to disemployment o f the unskilled labor. Thus, there is a need to develop an
integrated system for managing these social risks and their solutions.

23.      For this reason, a new Ministry o f Social Protection has been created by law and its
transformation into reality has now become a practical challenge for GOC. The new Ministry,still reeling
from the tragic passing o f its first Minister, must: (i) consolidate the numerous health, labor, and social
programs under one umbrella; (ii)bring under its purview semi-independent institutions that have been
operating with little central control for decades (ICBF, SENA); (iii)     develop a risk management strategy
that encompasses the different institutions and programs; and (iv) coordinate the development o f
institution-specific strategies so they are inline with the overall strategy o f the MSP.

24.      Counter-cyclical social protection expenditures. The urgent need for an effective and efficient
social protection system was apparent during the 1996-1999 recession. Emergency measures were
instituted during the recession, but given the increased volatility o f the Colombian economy due to
external and internal pressures, it i s necessary to develop a system that can respond to negative economic
shocks efficiently and opportunely. The construction o f such a system under the present constrained fiscal
conditions requires focus on increased efficiency and wise use o f resources, although a Bank report44has
pointed out that the country i s under-spending insocial assistance.

25.      Colombia lacks an effective system for protecting the poor and most vulnerable during a crisis
and for addressing the needs of the chronicallypoor duringnormal times. Since most social insurance and
assistance programs are financed by payroll contributions (parafiscales), expenditures are highly pro-
cyclical. For instance, the budget o f ICBF declined by over ten percent during the recession o f 1999 (a
much larger decline than GDP), due to the large increase in unemployment to about 20 percent o f labor
force. Furthermore, the system largely serves those who are formally recognized as workers, thus
excluding those parts o f the population that are potentially most at risk-informal       sector workers and


44WorldBank (2002), ColombiaSocial SafetyNet Assessment.


                                                      70

 their families, elderly, children, displaced people, and women (who tend to have intermittent labor force
participation). A Social Protection Program (Red de Apoyo Social) was created to cope with the recession,
but the remainingchallenge is how to institutionalisethe safety nets.

26.       Needfor ICBF Reform. One o f the most vulnerable groups in Colombia is pre-school children
younger than seven years o f age belonging to the poorest families.45 Since 1988, this population group has
been partially covered by the ICBF mostly through Madres Comunitarias (MC) caregivers at Hogares
 Comunitarios de Bienestar (community childcare centers, HCB). In 2002, ICBF was the main
government instrument to provide services for early childhood development and its major programs
benefited nearly 950,000 children under the age o f seven (85 percent o f whom attended more than 64,000
HCBs). Similarly, more than 2.3 million school children received food supplements o n a regular basis.
Although these programs achieved considerable coverage (nearly 100 percent o f municipalities), and the
number o f beneficiary children is significant, several structural problems limit their impact. The most
significant problems to be addressed by ICBF reforms can be summarized as below:

          (i)Lackof strategicfocus andprioritization.Historically, theICBFstructurehasbeenreformed
              inan incremental way. As a result, the Institute currently offers dozens of service modalities
              and interventions without policy focus, a clear strategy, or population-group prioritization.
              Also, the lack o f an impact evaluation or a cost-effectiveness analysis o f ICBF's programs
              has prevented government and ICBF from making decisions about groups to be targeted,
              programs to continued or terminated, and policies to be enforced.

              The ICBF, which has had a stable budget o f about $400 million annually funded by a three
             percent payroll tax, is facing a tightening financial situation produced by two developments.
             First, there was a reduction o f its budget by more than ten percent inreal terms between 1998
              and 200246due to the economic recession. Second, to promote employment, the labor reform
              exempted employers from paying the payroll tax for certain classes o f poor and
              disadvantaged workers; consequently, ICBF funds from payroll taxes will likely be lower
             than historical levels. This financial situation gives urgency to the need for more focus and
             efficiency inthe use o f ICBF's resources.

         (ii) of targeting. The targeting scheme, based on open access with self-selection and
             Lack
             implicit geographical targeting, i s limited. Duringthe 1990s, the increased coverage achieved
             by HCBs and other modalities concentrated on children from families belonging to the 2nd
             income quintiles and above.47

         (iii) to ensure greater effectiveness, eflciency, and equity. Between 1998 and 2001the
             Need
             number o f beneficiary children younger than seven years o f age in HCBs and other
             modalities fell by more than 130,000 (i.e. more than 12 percent), while beneficiaries from
             direct food supplements (children o f school age) decreased by more than 270,000 (i.e., more
             than ten percent) (Table 7).

         (iv)Local control. The strongly centralized system, grounded in administrative deconcentration
             (Le., ICBF's field offices directly depend o n central headquarters with little relation with



45See World Bank (2002) Program Document for a Proposed Social Sector Adjustment Loan in The Amount of
US$155 Million to the Republic of Colombia, June 18, 2002; World Bank (2002) Colombia Poverty Report; and
World Bank (2002) Colombia. Social Safety Net Assessment.
46The decreasingpayroll tax was producedby the increasingunemploymentrate.
47Between 1992 and 1997, in urban areas, childcare coverage of children belonging to families in the first income
quintile diminishedby about 20 percent (WorldBank, 2002a).


                                                       71

              local authorities) led to very limited local government participation in program design,
              management and, particularly, financing.

              Quality of inputs. Poor infrastructure and inadequate sanitation and other facilities at HCBs
              have resulted in a deficient quality of service provision. The quality o f service has also been
              negatively impactedby MC's low skill profile.

                 Table 7: Beneficiarychildrenfrom ICBF selectedprograms(thousands)

                         Modality                   1998          1999       2000       2001        2002

          HCB                                            917         905        907         815        812

          Hogares Infantiles                             152         149        147         147        127

          Jardines Comunitarios                            5            5         4            4          3

          Total lessthan 7 years of age                1,074       1,059      1,058         966        942

          Restaurantes Escolares (food                 2,609       2,123      2,227       2,290      2,337
          supplement)




         (vi) Quality of services. The scheme to finance the HCBs program has negative implications. On
             the one hand, resources allocated through Parent Association (for buying food and all
             supplies) would be difficult to monitor and the ICBF has very limitedcontrol mechanisms to
             guarantee total transparency in final resource allo~ation.~~    In addition, such resources are
             allocated on the assumption that every HCB i s benefiting 12-15 children, though no actual
             verification mechanism exists. On the other hand, payments for care-giving, based on direct
             grants, has usually been misunderstood by MCs; they often assume that the relationship
             between them and the ICBF i s based on a formal labor contract thus leading them to
             sometimes act as "unions" and demanding a more formal relationship with the ICBF, which
             constitutes a latent riskfor service provision.

Transparency and Social Control

27.      The GOC recently estimated that the cost of corruption in Colombia reached as highas US$2.24
billion, equivalent to 80 percent of the fiscal deficit or 2.6 percent o f GDP inyear 2001.49 This highlevel
o f corruption i s believedto have contributed to low levels o f investment (12.3 percent o f GDP) and hence
to a sub-optimal rate o f growth, a highunemployment rate, and ultimately inefficient use o f resources.

28.      The Office of the President of the Republic recently conducted a survey, with support from the
Bank, showing that the public believes that interest groups, through corrupt practices, influence high-level
government decisions. It also revealed linkages between inefficient (or questionable) use o f national
resources and the weakness o f monitoring and evaluation, transparency, internal controls, and autonomy


48An evaluation carried out in 1997 showed that only ten percent of HCBs were able to provide children a proper
food supplement (in terms of proteins, calories, etc) using Parents Association's food supply (ICBF (1997)
Evaluacidn de Impacto de 10sHogares Comunitarios de Bienestar).
49Bases del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2002-2006: Hacia un Estado Comunitario,2002. Presidencia de la
Republica- DepartamentoNacional de Planeacibn.


                                                       72

at the institutional level. While not all public perceptions o f corruption can be substantiated, it is clear that
a significant degree o f inefficiency and misallocation o f resources exists. Furthermore, the general public,
especially the poor, do not have adequate access to information regarding resource allocation criteria, the
decision-making process, or service coverage and service quality. Mechanisms to feed their concerns and
interests back to the system are also weak. As a result, public services provision suffers both interms o f
coverage and quality.

29.       Inaddition, inspite ofColombia's decentralized political, administrative, and financial systems, it
is believed that the degree o f inefficiency and inequity remains at a highlevel, and that social spending is
not adequately targeted. For example, although poverty-oriented programs are targeted using the Sistemu
de Seleccidn de Benejiciurios (System o f Beneficiary Selection, SISBEN), there have been very few cases
of systematic attempts to verify whether resources are indeed channeled towards intended targets.
Furthermore, SISBEN itself needs to be updated and adjusted to maintain its relevance as a poverty-
targeting instrument.

30.       To increase the efficiency of social expenditures, monitoring and evaluation is necessary.
Currently, a system o f program and impact evaluation is lacking for all social programs. As a result,
information about the effectiveness o f programs is not accessible, producing inefficient social spending
and difficulties in identifying and designing modifications o f programs. Although such a monitoring and
evaluation system is important at any time, it is particularly necessary in a fiscally constrained
environment.

31.       The SECAL encouraged the GOC to adopt periodic impact evaluations and citizens' monitoring
o f its social programs. The institutionalization o f such a culture is not a trivial process, but it i s an integral
part o f a social development strategy with a focus o n efficient resource use.

32.       The achievement o f the above-mentioned goals i s a difficult challenge for two reasons. First, as
mentioned, little additional money is available due to the extremely constrained fiscal situation.
Consequently, to attain the above objectives, it is necessary to carry out reforms that would increase the
efficiency o f social sector resource use. Reports indicate that there are considerable wasted resources that
can be tapped to achieve the government's human development goals. Second, the envisioned reforms are
quite complicated and thus require extensive technical assistance, political sensitivity, and consultations
with stakeholders.




                                                       73

                 Annex IV: Innovative Educational Models and Service Delivery Schemes

 Colombia has successfully experimented with innovative ways o f efficiently increasing coverage and
 student learning. The govemment plans to encourage the dissemination o f some o f these innovative
 schemes. Among the interestingschemes that were successfully tested are:


          0    School Vouchers. The national voucher program for secondary education (PACES)
              increased access by underserved populations and increased educational attainment, while
              maintaining, if not increasing, school effectiveness. The innovative demand-side financing
              program operated through a lottery system, which provided vouchers to students who would
              otherwise not have access to secondary schools, who then could then cash inthe vouchers to
              pay private school tuition. Voucher-recipients completed more years o f schooling than the
              lottery losers and were less likely to repeat grades (by 5-6 percentage points). Female lottery
              winners completed more years of schooling (0.14) than boys (0.12).50 Participation in the
              voucher program raised participants' wages by $36 to $300 per year. These benefits outweigh
              program costs. Although the Ministry o f Education does not have plans to expand PACES to
              a national level, it is being adopted in several territorial entities, and the evaluation results
              continue to be favorable.

          0   School concessions. The Ministry o f Education i s instead considering a national program
              modeled on an innovative system for the private management o f public schools inthe capital
              city: the Bogota School Concessions Program. In this program, the Government o f Bogota
              transfers the administration o f new schools to the private sector. The private schools - or
              concessionaires - have complete autonomy over school management. As o f 2003, there are
              23 concession schools; more are expected. The program targets low-income areas in need o f
              schools and the municipal educationdepartment constructs new, state-of-the-art schools, each
              able to accommodate between 800 and 1,200 students. The opportunity to manage the school
              is offered in a public procurement process, where bidders (private educational institutions)
              are evaluated on their proposed management plans. Concessionaires are obliged to provide
              educational services to poor children, and inreturnreceive remuneration from the department
              on a per-student basis. While the contract establishes clear standards that must be upheld, the
              concessionary has full autonomy over school management and i s evaluated solely on results.
              Concessionaires have already produced striking results in management improvements: they
              allocate on average 55 percent o f the per capita remuneration to human resources, well below
              the 90 percent allocation bypublic schools. Assumingthe government's proposal is approved
              by the referendum,a part of the revenues from royalties would be allocated to education and
              would be used to finance this concession schemes.

          0   Escuela Nueva. Colombia's Escuela Nueva movement has improved learning outcomes and
              keeps rural children in school. Escuela Nueva integrates curricular, community,
              administrative and teacher training strategies in a systematic way. It provides complete
              primary education in rural areas and improves the quality and effectiveness o f learning,
              especially in multi-grade environments. Evaluations have constantly shown significant
              achievement results. Children from Escuela Nueva schools achieve higher scores inlanguage
              and mathematics in the third and fifth grade than do students in traditional schools. Escuela
              Nueva also generates significant private sector participation, namely from the National
              Federation o f Coffee Growers. The Postprimaria Rural program follows closely the


  The winners were 13-15 percentage points more likely to finish the 8th grade than losers, primarilydue to reduced
repetition. This translates into a 25 percent increase in secondary school completion rates. Voucher-recipients
performedat least as well as students inpublic schools in bothmathematicsand language tests. Thus, for about two-
thirds of the per-pupilcost of public school, the programoffered many poor students secondary educationthat was
comparable in quality to public schools. PACES was a cost-effectivemeans of obtaining additional time in school
and higher-qualityeducation for participants.
                                                        74

  principles of Escuela Nueva by including active, flexible pedagogy to accommodate the
  needs o frural students.

0 Other New Initiatives. Other innovative programs under consideration by the Ministry o f
  Education include (a) Accelerated Schools, which addressesthe issue of overaged students by
  developing a pedagogical model characterized by a student-centered approach, with
  independent work and special educational material; (b) Sistema de Aprendizaje Tutorial
  (SAT) which expands secondary education in rural areas based on a local curriculum,
  including improvement o f numeracy and calculation, scientific thinking, communication,
  technology and community service; and (c) Telesecundaria: this model replicates the
  Mexican experience, a cost-effective approach to expand access to secondary education in
  rural areas.




                                       75

                             Annex V: FiscalImpactofImplementingthe Reforms

  PLaRSSAL PRIOR                                            FISCAL IMPACT
        ACTIONS
                                                                                                                  US133 m
. Increasing coverage o f   i.ThenewbeneficiarieswillrequirehigherexpenditurestotheICBFprogram, but
iutritionprograms in        the savings will come through lower social sector expenditureson these childrenin
500,000.                    the future.

i.Periodicimpact            ii.Periodicimpactevaluationsrequireannualfinancing, whichwillneedtobe
:valuation o f selected     coveredby ICBF funds.


                                                                                                                  JS$484m
. Increase PAI coverage     i.ToincreasethePAItouniversallevelsby2006,alargeincreaseinhealth
%NDImplementation of        expenditures during 2002-2006 will be needed to "catch up" those who were not
mmunization card            immunized earlier. Afterwards, the marginal cost of immunizations will be higher -
xogram                      due to new births -butnot as high as during the transition period. Similarly with the
                            immunization cards

i.IncreasingtheRegimen ii.Inthelongrun,theRegimenSubsidiariowillnotincuradditionalcostsas
Yubsidiario by 500,000      resourcesthat are currently allocated to public hospitals will be directed toward the
iew beneficiaries AND       insurance program. Inthe short run, while the hospital restructuring is on-going, the
Hospital restructuring      funding o fthe Regimen Subsidiuno is an additional cost to the govemment.
Labor and Training                                                                                                6267m
Modernizing SENA by          To improve the expandthe provisionofjob training, the current system will
xansforming it to a          continue while additional systems to enhancethe efficiency o fthe job training
regulator, certified,        institutions are being developed and implemented. Once the new systems are
:valuator, and financier o f implemented, though, they will function within the mandatedbudget envelope. The
iemand-based training        reforms may require staff downsizing.
services, which includes
hrther development of the
information systemfor
impact evaluation,
managerial accounting, and
iob search.
Education                                                                                                         637.6m
i.Increasenetenrollments     i.Increasingnetenrollmentsislargelycost-neutral, asitwillbeachievedby
                             increasing the number o f studentsper classroom.

ii.Studentachievement
testing for 100%of           ii.Theexpansionofthestudentachievementtestswillhavetobefinancedbythe
studentsin 100% of           government annually.
municipalities
                             iii.Thedesignandimplementationofthepilotoftheteacherevaluationwillincura
iii.Design,pilot, and        fixed cost in2003. The cost o f operating the program afterwards i s a new
expansion o fteacher
evaluation program           zxpenditure to be financed by the government.

                                                                                                                  674m
i.Workshopsforthe             i.Annual"Cbmovamos?"stylenationwideworkshopswill requireannual
national implementation of  financing by the government.
the Bogota Como Vamos?
model
                             ii.Theevaluationofallmajorsocialprogramsisarecurrentexpenditure,butthe
ii.Regularimpact             benefits derived from more efficient and better targeted programs will lead to
evaluation  Of               savings that counter-balance the direct costs
programs
TOTAL                                                                                                             6995.6
                                                                                                                  nillion

                                     Annex VI: FundRelations Note


                                                                              International MonetaryFund
July 29,2003                                                                  700 19thStreet, NW
                                                                              Washington, D.C. 20431USA

                                   Colombia: Fund Relations Note

On June 11, 2003 the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) completed the first
review o f Colombia's performance under a two-year, SDR 1.5 billion (about US$2.1 billion) Stand-By
Arrangement, which was approved on January 15,2003 (see Press Release No. 03/04). The completion o f
this review enables the release of SDR 193.5 million (about US$274 million) to Colombia, bringingthe
total amount available to SDR 580.5 million (about US$822 million). So far the country has not made any
drawings under the arrangement.

Background

Underthe authorities' program, economic performance has beenmostly favorable. The economy grew by
3.8 percent in Q1 2003 led by a pick up in domestic demand that outweighed a decline in net exports.
Inflation has remained above program target but stayed within the consultation bands. In late June
congress approved the fiscal responsibility law (a structural benchmark for end-June 2003), and the
government recently restructured the state petroleum and telecommunications enterprises, going beyond
the steps envisaged inthe program.

Executive Board Assessment at the Completion of the First Review

The government o f Colombia is carrying out a strong economic reform program aimed at encouraging
faster economic growth and improving social equity. Inparticular, the government's program focuses on
bringing the overall public sector deficit down through a wide range o f initiatives, including several
important structural measuressuch as tax, pension, and labor reforms. A lower fiscal deficit is essential to
reduce gradually the public debt burden, which in turn will ease pressures on interest rates and stimulate
growth.

The government i s commended for its strong commitment to economic reform. All performance criteria
and structural benchmarks for end-2002 and end-March 2003 have been observed. This strong policy
implementation has already helped to improve economic performance. The economy showed signs o f
recovery in the first quarter of 2003, with a slight decline in unemployment and renewed access to
international capital markets.

For 2003, the government is committed to reducing the overall public sector deficit to 2 ?4percent o f
GDP, and is prepared to implement contingency measures, if necessary, to achieve this target. At the
same time, the government intends to continue with key structural reforms, including further steps to
strengthenexpenditure management andmodernize public administration. The central bank already raised
its main refinancing rate by 200 basis points so far this year and is committed to taking further measures
as necessary to control inflationary pressures.

Colombia's economic reform program has helpedreduce the risks to the economic outlook. Nonetheless,
the authorities will need to sustain the implementation of the program in order to lay the basis for a
durable recovery.

For questions please contact Mr.R. Rennhack, DivisionChief, SoutWCentral American I,
Western Hemisphere Department, IMF, ext. 37350.
                                                    77

                      Annex VII: Colombia at a Glance




                                        tatln Lower-
POVERTY and SOC~P~L




 FBmale




                          3 3
                          5 2
                          3 9            1
                          3 2   3 8      1 2
                          2 6    i s J   2 8    19
                          4.4
                          o a  i9 l ~ i"2z1
                                   s
                                             ~
                          O B   (73      6 4   112




                                      78

 1991    1991                          1
  27 3   238
  22 6   3 0



          14 1
           24%
             8




 1951   1991

 3,185  7 . W
 1,423  1,358

  ma
   28   1,rm
        2,4m
 5,195  4,W
  319     2m
   RE     28d       234    183
 1W9    1.m 3,414        4.W
     6      El
     7      a33
   118      'M      128     116   1

 19.91  lW

 4      B,115
&115    8,853   14      15,640
-1,BT   2,w       1       -953
  427  -1,BW     -2,513  -2975
  243   1,W       1"     2,094
-1.721  2,347       3%   -1.783
 1,284   .2EB       513  2,855
  497  -2,DdQ
                                I

  54 s  e a 3     %Ob5  10,245
                2.0Bp6  2,2998


 1951   1931

&716   17,201
 1,164  3,rs
   I1       14
 1,120  3,?&
   161    m3
     1       1

    7      tsB
  P?    -1%
1,127   .270
  255     4%
    D        0


    0      Q3
  251     301
   77     4 92
  1?4   -191
   85     307
   89   "495




               79

                                    Annex VIII: Additional Annexes

                                              Annex VIII-A
              SelectedIndicators* of Bank PortfolioPerformance and Management
                                             As ofJuly 30,2003



Indicator                                                  2001          2002             2003    2004
PovtfolioAssessment
NumberofProjectsUnder Implementationa                         22            24              22     22
Average ImplementationPeriod(years)                          3.2            3.1             3.7    3.8
PercentofProblemProjectsbyNumber      ''                     4.5            4.2             9.1    9.1
PercentofProblemProjectsby Amounta,                          5.5            5.0            10.7   10.7
Percent ofProjectsat RiskbyNumber                            4.5           12.5             9.1    9.1
PercentofProjectsat RiskbyAmount                             5.5            7.0            10.7   10.7
DisbursementRatio(%)   e                                    24.6          29.5             18.3    0.5
PovtfolioManagement
CPPRduringthe year (yesino)
SupenisionResources(total US$000's)
Average Supervision(US$OOO's/project)



MemorandumItem                                    Since N 80     LastFiveN   s
Proj EvalbyOEDbyNumber                                       96             12
Proj EvalbyOEDbyAmt (US$ millions)                       7,252.3       1,141.8
%ofOEDProjectsRatedUor HUbyNumber                           27.4           16.7
%ofOEDProjectsRatedUor HUbyAmt                              24.5            7.4


a. As shownintheAnnual ReportonPortfolioPerformance(except for current FY).
b. Average age ofprojectsinthe Bank'scountryportfolio.
c. Percentofprojects ratedUor HUondevelopment objectives(DO) andor implementationprogress (IP).
d. As definedunderthePortfolioImprovementProgram.
e. Ratioofdisbursementsduringthe year to the undisbursedbalance ofthe Bank'sportfolio at the
   beginningofthe year: Investmentprojectsonly.
* All indicatorsarefor projectsactiveinthePortfolio,withthe exceptionofDisbursementRatio,
  whichincludesallactiveprojectsas well asprojectswhichexited duringthefiscalyear.




                                                      80

                         Annex VIII-B: IBRDHighCase ProgramSummary Colombia        -
                                                    As ofJuly 30,2003


ProposedIBRD/IDABase-Case LendngPrograma

Fiscal                                                                         Strategic Rewards Implementation
 year                               ProjID                             us$(M)       (HML)         Risks (HML)

  2004      CO ktional M a nTransport
              -                                                         120.0
            CO1st FSL Labor8 Soc Sect Ref                               150.0
            CO2nd Rogramtii FSAL                                        150.0
            COAnti-corruptin LIL                                        5.0
            CO AACEANIE V FROJECT                                       125.0
           CORcgFiscaland lnstAdj II                                    150.0
           CO Fhrralbersification                                       200.0
           COTAL SustainableCevelopmnt                                  12.0
           CUNYMRCAE l " Q u A L r r Y       I m v m                    15.0
           Result                                                       927.0
  2035     CO JudicialSector Cevelopmnt Roject
              -                                                         40.0
           CO- Water,%nit andWastewater Wgt.                            125.0
           COLow I        mW L" S P O R T FROJECT                       50.0
           CORcgFiscaland InstitutionalSAL Ill                          150.0
           COSustainableCev Rogramtic SAL                               100.0
           CO ~ L I Z B ) K I W N C A F l T A L E V .                   30.0
           CO- 2nd Rog.Labor &SocialSector Ref                          150.0
           COmsasterVulnerability Reduction                             150.0
           CO: l-balth lnvestmnt                                        150.0
           CO: hralmucation(AR)                                         0.0
           M A T EINRASTRUCTLREFIWNC.FACILm                             50.0
           Resuit                                                       995.0
  2006     COBoGoTA"spoRTI                                              50.0
           CORcg FEcaland InstitutionalSAL N                            300.0
           COBarrioUpgrading8 Land                                      60.0
           Result                                                       410.0
           OverallResuit                                                2,332.0




a. This tablepresentsthe Bank'slendingprogramfor the nexithree fiscal years.
b. H=High, M=Modemte,L=Low




                                                              81

                   Annex WI-C (IFC & MIGA) Colombia
                                          -
                             W2001-2004


                                          2001   2002  2003  2004


IFCapprovals(US$m)*                      176.38 242.00 59.00


Sector (YO)*
c0"INvVHIIcLE                               11
FINANCE&INSURANCE                           79     44
FOOD&BEVERAGES                                     41
Finance&Insurance                                        59
NONMETALUCMINERAL                           10
OIL, GASANDMINING                                   14
Utilities                                                41
Total                                      100     99   100    0


Investment instrument(o/~)*
Loans                                        4      52
Equity                                      33      13
Quasi-Equity                                 6      35    17
Other                                       57       0    83
Total                                      100    100   100    0




MIGAguarantees                               0       0     0


*IF& accountonly.




                                 82

                        Annex VIII-D: Summary ofNonlending Services Colombia
                                                                         -
                                              As ofNowmber 27,2002

                                                                         cost
FY                                     Product                         (US$OOO) Audience  Objective


Recentconpletions
          SocialSector CEM                                                    88             KGPD
          Agro-Ecology                                                        60             KG,PD
          Inprove PublicExpenditureEF                                         45             KG,PD
          ColombiaRuralFinance                                               100           KG,PD,PS
          Poverty SelectedTopics                                             100           KG,PD,PS
          SocialSectorReview                                                 150           KG,PD,PS
          Enviromnt,Land&Poverty                                             120             KG,PS
          PolicyNotes                                                        100              PD


Underway
          TaxpolicyandAdninistration                                          81     G,B     KG,PS
          SocialSectorEfliciency                                              88     G,B     KG,PS
          LaborReform                                                        110  G,B,PD     KG,PS
          PublicDebtManagemntAssessmnt                                        81     G,B     KG,PS
          PublicEqendituresReview                                             72  G,B,PD     KG,PS
          Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessmnt                           130     G,B     KG,PS

Planned
m 4       FinancialSectorReview                                               41     G,B     KG,PS
          Giowthfor TacklingInequalitiesStudy                                 83  G,B,PD     KG,PS
          S M U& Micro-EnterprkeDevelopmnt                                    83  G,B,PD     KG,PS
          EnviromntalInpactAssessmntlhcensmgFramwork                          79   G,B,PD  KG,PD,PS
          FinancialSustainabilityofEnvironmnt Managemnt Institutions          79  G,B,PD   KG,PD,PS
          UrbanStrategy                                                       81   G,B,PD  KG,PD,PS
          HealthRestructuring                                                 81   G,B,PD    KG,PS

lW05      Country EconomicMemrandum((EM)                                     158     G,B     KG,PD
          DisasterManagemnt                                                   81     G,B     KG,PD
          Indigenous andAfro-Colombian Comnities                              81   G,B,PD  KG,PD,PS
          EducationStudy                                                      81   G,B,PD  KG,PD,PS
          CountryProcuremntAssessmnt Report                                   90     GB      KG,PS

lWO6      ValuationofNaturalCapitalinthe        Basin                        158   G,B,PD  KG,PD,PS
          KnowledgeManag.to EnhanceProduct.andConpetitiveness                 81   QB,PD   KG,PD,PS
          Social SafetyNet Study II                                           81   G,B,PD  KG,PD,PS




a. CFGovemmnt, Wonor, BBank, P-ublic      dissenination.
b. KCFKnowledgegeneration,PD=public debate, PS==roblemsolvmg.




                                                             83

                                                            Annex VIII-E: Colombia Social Indicators

                                                                        Latest single year               Same regionlincome group

                                                                                                                Latin      Lower-
                                                                                                            America        middle-
                                                                  1970-75      1980-85     1994-01          8 Carib.       income

P 0 P U L A T I O N
Total population. m id-year (millions)                                 25.4         31.7       42.3              515.7       2,047.6
  Growth rate (% annual average for period)                              2.4         2.1         1.9               1.6            1.1
Urban population (% of population)                                     60.7        67.0        74.9               75.4          42.0
Totalfertilityrate (births per woman)                                    4 6        3.4         2.6                2.6            2.1

P O V E R T Y
(xof population)
Povertyrate                                                            80.0        65.0        67.0
  Urban poverty rate                                                   70.0        55.0        59.0
  Rural poverty rate                                                   94.0        80.0        80.0

I N C O M E
GNlpercapita (US$)                                                      560        1,150      2,020             3,670           1,wo
Consumer price index (1995=100)                                            1          11        209                144           146
Food price index(l995=100)                                                            11         I 9 1


I N C O M E l C O N S U M P T I O N D I S T R I B U T I O N
Gini index                                                             53.0        54.0        58.0
Lowest quintile (%of income orconsumption)                                                      3.O
Highest quintile (%of income orconsumption)                                                    60.9


S O C I A L IN D l C A T O R S
P u b l i c expenditure
  Health(%of GDP)                                                                               5.2                2 .8          2.3
  Education ( % o f GDP)                                                 2.2        2.8         3.5                3.3           4.6
  Social securityand welfare (%of GDP)                                              2.7         2.3                7.4
N e t p r i m a r y s c h o o l e n r o l l m e n t r a t e
( % o f age group)
  Total                                                                              65          87                97             91
    Male                                                                                                           99             91
    Female                                                                                                         98             91
A c c e s s t o an I m p r o v e d w a t e r s o u r c e
(%of population)
  Total                                                                                           91               85             80
    Urban                                                                                        98                93             95
    Rural                                                                                        73                62             69
Im m unlzat i o n r a t e
(%underI2 months)
  M easies                                                                           51          75                93             89
  DPT                                                                                61          74                87             89
Chiidmalnutrition(%under5years)                                                      17            8                 9             11
Life e x p e c t a n c y a t b i r t h

(years)
  Total                                                                  63          67          72                70             69
    M ale                                                                61          64          68                67             67
    Female                                                               65          71          75                74             72
M o r t a l i t y
  Infant (per 1,000 live births)                                         54          35          20                29             33
  Under 5 (per 1,000live births)                                         113         58          23                37             41
   A d u l t (15-59)
    Male (per 1,000 population)                                         262        237          203               208            192
    Female (per 1,000 population)                                       209         162          114               121           125
  M aternal (per 100,000 live births)                                                           120
Births attended by skilled health staff (a)                                                      85

                                AnnexVIII-F Colombia KeyEcononicIndicators
                                                       -
                                                       Actual               Estimate       Projected
                Indicator                1997     1998   1999   2000  2001   2002     2003  2004    2005
Nationalaccounts(as YOofGDP)
Gross domestic producta                     100     100    100    100   100      100    100     100   100
 AgllCultUre                                14       14     14     13    13      13      13      13    13
 Industry                                   29       28     28     30    30      30      30      31    31
 senices                                    57       58     58     56    57      57      56      56    56
TotalConsumption                            85       86     88     86    85      87      87      86    86
Grossdomestic fixedinvestment               21       20     14     13    13      13      13      14    14
 Government investmnt                                                              0      0       0     0
 Privateinvestment                                                               13      13      14    14
w r t s (=Ib                                15       15     19     20    19      18      20      21    21
Imports(-1                                  21       21     19     20    19      21      22      23    23
Gross domestic savings                      15       14     12     14    15      13      13      14    14
Gross nationalsavings'                      13       12     10     12    14      13      13      13    13
Memrandum item
Gross domesticproduct                   106719    98806  84845  83227 82411  77485    75812  75559  75991
(USmillionatcurrentprices)
GNPpercapita (US,Atlasmethod)             2570    2450    2150   2150  1980     1860   1780    1720  1720
Realannualgrowthrates(?/$ calculated om1994prices)
 Grmsdomesticproductat&et       prices      3.4     0.6    4.1    2.6    1.4     2.0    2.5     3.5    3.5
 GrmsDomesticIncome                         3.6    -1.1    -3.8   3.1   2.7      0.2    2.5     3.7    3.7
Realannualpercapitagrowthrates(%,calculatedfbm 1994prices)
 Gross domesticproductat market prices      1.5    -1.3    -5.7   0.7   -0.3     0.4    0.9     2.0    2.0
 Totalconsumption                           3.3    -1.7    4.2   -0.5   -0.3     1.6    0.5     1.8    1.8
 Privateconsumption                         0.5    -2.7    -6.2   0.7    0.1     2.0    0.3     2.5    2.5
BalanceofPayments(USmillions)
 Expoas(GNFS)b                           14195    13432  13919 15624 14932   13933    14971  16048 17059
   MerchandiseFOB                        11529    11480  12037  13621 12775  11918    12813  13741 14612
 Imports (-Ib                            18411    17344  13405  14400 15840  16031    16853  17736 18602
  MerchandiseFOB                         14371    13930  10262  11090 12267  13005    13671  14388   15090
 Resourcebalance                         -4216 -3913       515  1224   -908  -2099 -1882 -1688 -1543
 Netcurrenttransfers                       789     446    1435  1662 2094     1973     1810   1873   1939
 Cmentaccountbalance                     -5953 -5225       353   356 -1789 -2259 -2413 -2349 -2201
 Netprivate foreign direct investmnt      4830    2032    1353  2031 2287     2333    2391   2475    2561
 Long-termloans(net)                     2200     1039    357 -1282    -670      -6     565    580    289
  Official                                -452     178    1013   103    986     442    1655          1396
  private                                2652                                  -448   -1090 -2309 -1107
                                                                                              1729
 Othercapital(net, incl. errors &ommi -1354       3541 -1742 -1974
                                                   862    -656 -1386 -1656
                                                                       -994     -31     -96     -99   -74
 Changeinreserves'                         277 -1388      -320   869  1166      -37    446    -607   -576
Memorandumitem
Resourcebalance(%ofGDP)                   -4.0     -4.0    0.6    1.5  -1.1     -2.7   -2.5    -2.2   -2.0
Realannualgrowthrates(YR94prices)
 Merchandiseexports (FOB)                  5.7     9.1     7.2    3.0   2.9     -3.8    3.9     3.8   3.5
  Manufactures                             4.2     19.3    1.1    5.4   5.2     -4.0    4.3     4.2   4.0
 Merchandiseimports (CIF)                 -4.5     0.3   -25.4  -25.6  67.6     2.1     1.7     2.9   3.5


                                                                                (Continued)

                                                      85

                                            Colombia Key EconomicIndicators
                                                         -
                                                             (Continued)


                                                                    Actual              Estimate       Projected
                   Indicator                     1997      1998     1999   2000   2001   2002    2003   2004    2005


Publicfinance (as YOof GDP at marketprices)'
  Currentrevenues                                  27.4      26.9     27.4   28.2   28.9    28.9   28.9    28.9   30.0
  Current expenditures                             21.8      22.9     24.5   23.7   24.4    24.3   24.0    23.8   23.4
  Current account surplus(f) or deficit (-)         5.6       4.0      2.9   4.5     4.5    4.6    4.9      5.1    6.6
  Capitalexpenditure                                9.6        8.0     8.7    8.0    8.1     7.9    7.8     7.8    7.9
 Foreignfinancing                                   0.6       2.6      1.3    1.8    2.3    3.1    2.2      2.4    1.8

Monetary indicators
 M2/GDP                                            36.0      34.4     36.0   32.3   33.2    33.2   33.2    33.2   33.2
 Growthof M2 (%)                                   25.8       10.9    10.5   4.7    12.0    8.2     7.1     6.9    6.6
 Private sector credit growth/                     79.2      76.5    -49.2  20.1    66.2    85.0   66.0    66.0   70.0
 total creditgrowth(%)

Price indices(YR94    =loo)
 Merchandiseexportpriceindex                      108.4      93.5     92.9  102.2   93.3    93.9   97.2   100.4  102.9
 Merchandiseimportpriceindex                       86.0      81.5     79.6  115.9   76.9    76.4   79.0    80.8   82.2
 Merchandisetermsoftrade index                    126.1     114.7    116.6   88.2  121.2   122.9  123.0   124.3  125.1
 Realexchangerate (US$ILCU)f                      119.1     113.5    102.7   95.6   98.0    91.0   84.0    79.1   75.5

 Consumerprice index (% change)                    17.7       16.7     9.2    8.8    6.5     6.2    6.0     5.0    4.0
 GDP deflator(%change)                             16.8       15.2    10.2   13.6    7.6     6.0    6.0     5.0    4.0



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactorservices."
c. Includes net unrequitedtransfers excludingofficial capitalgrants.
d. Includesuseof IMFresources.
e. NFPS
f. An increasedenotesappreciation.




                                                                  86

                                   Annex VIII-G: Colombia Key Exposure Indicators
                                                                -


                                                       Actual                                Estimate          Projected
               Indicator                1996   1997      1998     1999       2000    2001      2002     2003    2004    2005


Total debt outstandingand              28900    31941     33083    34423      33930   38713     38772    39340   39920   40212
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements(US$m)a                4397    3618        820      1262      -194    2973        59      568     583     292


Total debt service (TDS)                5401    4511       4539      6606      5109    7924      5851     7271     6129   6352
(US$m)a


Debtanddebt service indicators
(%)
  TDO/XGS~                             219.9    225.0      246.3    247.3     217.2    259.3    278.3    262.8   248.8   235.7
  TDOiGDP                               29.7     29.9       33.5     40.6      40.8     47.0      50.0    51.9     52.8   52.9
  TDS/XGS                               41.1     31.8       33.8     47.5      32.7     53.1      42.0    48.6     38.2   37.2
  ConcessionaVTDO                         3.3      2.8       2.7       2.8       2.8     2.3       2.3     2.3      2.2    2.2


IBRDexposureindicators(%)
  IBRDDS/public DS                       18.2    21.1       11.9       8.2     10.6      7.9       7.5      6.0     8.3    9.4
  Preferredcreditor DSipublic           34.2     42.2       24.8     21.1      26.2     19.4      32.5     30.8    35.3   39.8
  DS (%)'
  IBRDDSiXGS                              4.0      4.0       2.6       2.8       2.4     2.4       2.3     2.2      2.2    2.5
  IBRD TDO (US$m)d                     2177     1723       1740     1960      1920     2006     2147     2521    3097    3597
  Share of IBRDportfolio (%)              2.0      1.6       1.5       1.6       1.6     1.6       1.8      2.1     2.7    3.1
  IDA TDO (US$mld                         10        10         9         8         7       7         6        5       5      5


IFC (US$m)c3e
  Loans                                            118       72        61        41      29        29
  Equity and quasi-equityf                          18       21         17       43      43        56


MIGA
  MIGA guarantees(US$m)

a. Includespublic andpubliclyguaranteeddebt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMFcredits andnet short-termcapital.
b. "XGS" denotesexports ofgoods and services, includingworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditorsare definedas IBRD, IDA, IFC, the regionalmultilateral developmentbanks, the IMF, andthe
   Bank for InternationalSettlements.
d. Includespresent value of guarantees.
e. Excludesparticipants'account. Excludesguaranteesand risk managementproducts. 2002 i s actual.
f. Includesbothloanandequitytypes ofquasi-equityinstruments.




                                                                87


3 o o o o o o o o o m o o o o o o ~
5 k 0 0 ~ 0 0 0 0 0 d 0 0 0 0 0 0
  3                               I
3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 m 0 0 .
5 0 0 0 0 0 hl 0 k 0 0 0 0 0 d 0 0
  m         k                G     I

3 0 0 0. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.
        - -
5 0 0 o + d ~ 0 ~ 0 k o 0 0 k o o
  P                          hl



3 o o o o o o o o o m o o o o o P
5 k 0 0 ~ 0 0 0 0 0 d 0 0 0 0 0 ~
  9

3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
~ m 0 0 0 0 k 0 k 0 0 0 0 0 ~ 0 0
  0         m




0 0 0 0 - 0 - 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ~
0 P 0 0 + d m o ~ o m o o omm o m
  0         &

90



