26508
July 14, 2003
COLOMBIA
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC LABOR REFORM AND SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT
Project Name:                   CO - First Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector
Adjustment Loan (PLaRSSAL)
Region:                         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector:                         Multi-Sector
Task Managers:                  Vicente Paqueo and Wendy Cunningham (LCSHD)
Project ID Number:              PE-P079060-LEN-BB
Borrower:                       Republic of Colombia
Guarantor:                      Not applicable
Implementing Agency:            Ministry of Finance
Environmental Category:         Not Applicable
Date PID prepared:              28 July 2003
Projected Board Date:           9 September 2003
1. Country and Sector Background:
Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
Document number: CAS 25129      Date of last CAS discussion: January 19, 2003
As described in the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board of Directors
on January 19, 2003 the Bank's strategy focuses on three goals: (i) fast and sustainable growth;
(ii) quality governrment institutions; and (iii) sharing the fruits of growth. Achievement of these
goals will strengthen the foundation for peace and the possibility for conflict resolution. As
noted, violent conflict is Colombia's greatest challenge at present. To support this strategy, the
Bank lending program envisioned in the CAS focuses on operations that would: (i) have the most
tangible impact on poverty alleviation; (ii) achieve fast and sustainable growth while protecting
the poor; (iii) incorporate the lessons learned from the Bank's operations, particularly from on-
going Learning and Innovative Loans; and (iv) pilot innovative interventions with important
demonstration effects.
The PLaRSSAL will directly contribute to achieving the CAS objectives in a variety of ways:



* Economic growth. For faster and sustained economic growth, Colombia needs to
increase employment of workers and total factor productivity growth. The labor
reforms supported by the PLaRSSAL would contribute to increased employment.
Moreover, the education and training reforms advanced by the government and
nurtured by these operations would increase the pace of the country's human capital
accumulation and push the private sector productivity towards the technological
frontier. In the Bank's report, Closing the Gap in Education and Technology (2003),
these two conditions are deemed necessary for sustained and rapid economic growth
in the technologically changing global economy.
* Building quality government. The PLaRS SAL would contribute to the development
of quality government by supporting reforms intended to promote the transparency,
social accountability, coordination, and rationalization of key social programs and
institutions. In addition, the operations would enhance the participation of Colombia's
citizens and the ability of beneficiaries to make choices and informed decisions. Such
actions are expected to reduce inefficiencies and improve relations between the
Colombians and their government.
* Sharing the fruits of growth. The labor, education, training, social assistance, and
health reforms supported by PLaRSSAL would obviously enhance the ability of all
people, especially the poor, to share in the fruits of economic growth. Employment is
the single most important source of income for poor people. Hence, reforms that
would reduce unemployment and underemployment as well as raise employment in
the formal sector are likely to lower poverty and improve income equality. In
addition, improved cost-effectiveness and targeting of ICBF (Colombian Institute for
Family Welfare) and SENA (National Training Program) programs to low-income
people (called for by PLaRSSAL) would reduce welfare inequality. Moreover, a
movement towards universal access to good quality basic education and health
services promoted by PLaRSSAL would favor lower income children.
2. Objectives:
The PLaRSSAL supports the general government objective of promoting greater employment,
more rapid human capital accumulation, and better social protection, especially of the poor and
vulnerable. This objective would be achieved through more efficient and equitable use of social
sector resources, improved regulatory environment and better institutional practices.
The specific objectives , that the current administration seeks to attain with PLaRSSAL
assistance, are detailed in Table 6, which also presents corresponding performance indicators.
These have been selected to be as close as possible to outcome measures. The indicators are
currently being finalized by the Government of Colombia (GOC) and Bank team and the
monitoring of these indicators will be used to track progress and provide data for the
Implementation Completion Reports.
The strategy to attain those objectives consists of, among others:



(a) Reduction in the cost of employment and training, especially of the poor and young
workers, through the implementation of labor reforms under Law 789;
(b) Development of a comprehensive and integrated skills development strategy and
modernization of SENA functions, responsibilities, and use of resources;
(c) Increased efficiency in the use of education resources through the sustained and full
application of a system for education resource transfers based on enrollment, as
provided for in Law 715;
(d) Establishment of information systems and reorganization of the educational systems
of territorial entities, necessary to support the implementation of the education
provisions of Law 715 intended to improve efficiency and equity;
(e) Greater transparency and better social control of publicly funded social services,
including:
o Regular measurement of student learning achievement in all schools and
public dissemination of results;
o Strengthening the application of current regulations regarding the licensing of
health providers and insurers to inform clients about the quality of their
services;
o Promotion of results-based management and periodic, rigorous evaluation of
the major social programs; and systematic measurement of costs; and citizens'
monitoring and oversight of these programs; and
o Development of a system of evaluation of teachers' performance, as provided
for in Law 715;
(f) Development and pilot testing of incentive schemes to improve teachers'
performance;
(g) Advance towards the completion of the health care reform, i.e.,
o Expansion of the population affiliated with the Subsidized Regime (health
insurance); and
o Measures to deepen the hospital restructuring to facilitate the transition
towards demand-based financing of public hospitals and expansion of the
Subsidized Regime coverage;
(h) Advancement of the development of a comprehensive Social Risk Management
System for Colombia that is efficient and ready to assist the vulnerable in times of
crisis and the help the structural poor in normal times, including



o The development of the Ministry of Social Protection into an effective
backbone of an integrated social protection system, able to shape, coordinate
and oversee the various social protection policies, programs, and their
implementation; and
o Better targeting and streamlining of ICBF, SENA and other social assistance
programs;
(i)   Encouragement of the use of private providers through competitive contracts,
vouchers, and other innovative schemes to improve efficiency and effectiveness
in education, training, and social assistance.
3. Description:
Two programmatic structural adjustment loans are being proposed to support the above-
mentioned labor and social sector reform program.
Building on the Social Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL), the first PLaRSSAL operation focuses
on the approval and the initial operationalization of the recently passed labor reforms and the
acceleration of the implementation of the education, health, and social protection reforms, in
accordance with Laws 789 and 715 respectively.
The PLaRSSAL I focuses specifically on:
(i)       Greater efficiency in job skills formation and the labor market. The
operation would support the development of regulatory decrees enabling the implementation of
Law 789. These regulations will provide incentives to employment for vulnerable groups (the
young, the elderly, disabled individuals, and unemployed household heads), re-allocate tied
funds (from the Cajas de Compensacion) to employment creation programs, and increase
coverage and privatization of the apprenticeship system. Moreover, the PLaRSSAL I would
promote the modernization of SENA, starting with increasing its internal efficiency (e.g.
reduction of overhead costs) and improving the impact of its courses on workers' wages.
(ii)      Quality and coverage improvements in the education sector. Implementation
of the regulatory and budgetary frameworks encouraged by the SECAL would be promoted by
the proposed operation. The PLaRSSAL would push these specific outcomes: (i) an increase in
enrollments from better use of education resources and, hence, a rise in the student:teacher ratio;
and (ii) improvement in student learning achievement. These improvements will be achieved
through a more efficient deployment of the teaching staff and the testing of all students in grades
5 and 9.'
(iii)    Increased coverage, efficiency, and targeting of social protection programs,
including the health sector and ICBF. The concept of a comprehensive social risk management
system was introduced in the SECAL. The next step, which is supported by this operation, is to:
I The matrix specifies coverage of testing at 90 percent. One hundred percent coverage was deemed unrealistic by
the Ministry of Education (MEN) due to the inability of the MEN to reach students living in conflict areas.



(a) establish a source of funds for emergency social protection demands; (b) improve targeting of
health and early childhood (ICBF) services-both of which have large budgets and wide
coverage, but do not effectively reach the most vulnerable populations; and (c) evaluate ICBF
programs credibly, laying the groundwork for a more efficient and strategic use of its resources.
The outputs to be measured are budget allocations, regulatory decrees, and evidence of increased
coverage, specifically in the Subsidized Regime program.
4. Loan Amount and Disbursements:
The two PLaRSSAL operations are proposed for a total of $350 million. The first (US$200
million), which would be in the form of a fixed spread, U.S.-dollar-denominated loan, would be
made to the Republic of Colombia. Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made to an
account (Deposit Account) of the Republic of Colombia, established at the Banco de la
Republica for this purpose. As mentioned, the proposal would be to disburse the loan in one
tranche upon Board approval. This tranche arrangement has been designed with the government
and reflects its and the Bank's assessment of the necessary timing for implementing the proposed
conditions. Aside from financial pressures due to an urgent financing gap, the timing of the loan
is calibrated to support the government in its efforts to continue the momentum of the SECAL
and the momentum of the social sector reform.
5. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Vicente Paqueo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-458-2534
Fax: 202-522-0050
6. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop



