Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
March 9, 2004 
 
Mr. Luis Alfonso Hoyos Aristizabal  
Director Encargado  
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional 
Bogotá, Colombia 
 
Mr. Santiago Montenegro Trujillo 
Director 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación 
Bogotá, Colombia 
Re:   Japanese Grant for Preparation of the Second Programmatic Labor 
and Social Sector Reform Grant TF 052528
Dear Sirs: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make 
a
grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred thousand Dollars ($700,000) (the Grant) to 
Agencia Colombiana de Cooperación Internacional 
(the Recipient) for the benefit of the Republic of 
Colombia (the Beneficiary). 
 
The Grant is made in response 
to the Beneficiary’s and Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is the Bank’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement 
and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Page  2
2
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. The provisions of 
this Letter Agreement will become effective on the date above written upon receipt by the Bank of: 
(a) one fully executed original of this Letter Agreement; and (b) evidence, acceptable to the Bank, 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement (referred to in paragraph 2.2 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement) has been signed by the parties thereto. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
By /s/ Miguel López-Bakovic 
Acting Director 
Country Management Unit 
Colombia and Mexico 
 
AGREED: 
AGENCIA COLOMBIANA DE COOPERACION 
INTERNACIONAL 
 
By /s/ Luis Alfonso Hoyos A. 
 
Acting Director 
 
Date: March 31, 2004 
 
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE PLANEACION 
on behalf of the Republic of Colombia 
 
By /s/ Santiago Javier Montenegro T. 
 
Director 
 
Date:  April 15, 2004 
 
Page  3
3
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Second Programmatic Labor 
and Social Reform Project, which has as main objective the support of the Beneficiary’s reforms 
in the labor, education, health and social protection systems areas through: (i) increased 
employment through reforms reducing labor cost and improving training opportunities for 
workers, especially for disadvantaged groups; (ii) achievement of primary education MDG goal 
and improvement of secondary education in regard to both coverage and quality of schooling 
through greater effectiveness and efficiency in resource use; (iii) advancement of the completion 
of Colombia's health reform, in particular the conversion of public hospitals into largely self-
financing entities; and (iv) progress in the establishment of a more integrated social protection 
system, specifically in the sustained development of a social risk management system that 
addresses not only social assistance but also health, labor, old-age, training, and youth-at-risk 
issues (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) provision of technical assistance to carry out studies, consult with stakeholders and 
disseminate the results of said studies; all of this to advance the Beneficiary’s reforms in the areas of: 
(i) education (including issues of decentralization, expansion of coverage, improvement of quality, 
increase in efficiency and assessment and dissemination of performance information); (ii) health 
(including issues of sustainability of health financing and health services’ quality); (iii) labor market 
(including issues of labor cost and labor market flexibility); (iv) skills development; and (v) social 
protection (including social risk management systems). These Activities are estimated to cost 
US$475,300 equivalent; 
 
(b) provision of technical assistance to support the collection of data in the areas of: (i) 
education; (ii) health; (iii) labor market; (iv) skills development; and (v) social protection, through 
the carrying out of field surveys and interviews, including the gathering of detailed information as to 
where equity and efficiency improvements are needed and the assessment of the potential impact of 
policy reforms. These Activities are estimated to cost US$154,700 equivalent; and 
 
(c) provision of technical assistance to carry present the findings and recommendations of 
the Activities described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, and to carry out an audit of the Activities 
financed under the Grant. These Activities are estimated to cost US$70,000 equivalent. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1 The Recipient, shall: (a) with the assistance of 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
 
(DNP) as 
technical implementation agency (pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement 
described in paragraph 2.2 below) and the assistance of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of 
Social Protection, carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information 
covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of 
the Activities; (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the 
Beneficiary for purposes related to the Grant; and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project, all in accordance with 
the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in paragraph 2.2 below. Without limitation on the foregoing, 
Page  4
4
the Recipient with assistance of DNP, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Activities, the Recipient shall enter into a subsidiary 
agreement with DNP (the Subsidiary Agreement), including, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of DNP to 
carry out the technical implementation of the Project and to comply with all the other applicable 
provisions of this Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Bank. 
 
2.3. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner so as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Grant, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.  In case of contradiction between any of the provisions of this Letter Agreement and 
those of the Subsidiary Agreement, the provision of this Letter Agreement shall prevail.  
 
3. Procurement
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services required 
for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in US Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
Consultants’ services 
 (including audits) 
 
TOTAL 
 
700,000 
 
____________ 
700,000 
============ 
100% 
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$70,000, may be made on account of 
Page  5
5
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 30, 2003; (ii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services 
supplied from such territories; or (iii) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such 
payment, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after October 14, 2004 or 
such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided 
that, except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected 
date of Bank approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the 
Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any 
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories 
in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such 
Category, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of 
the Grant then allocated to another Category which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to 
meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by its Acting Director 
or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the 
Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
Page  6
6
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect  the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above for each such fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period 
agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in 
scope and  detail satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information 
concerning such records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (ii) enable the Bank’s representatives to 
examine such records; and (iii) ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the audit 
for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the Bank, referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient or the Beneficiary, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan 
with the guarantee of the Beneficiary to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank 
or any development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have 
been suspended; or (c) the Beneficiary shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient and the Beneficiary, to withdraw its 
support to the Project; or (d) if the Beneficiary has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in 
financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list of 
consultants, estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
 Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Page  8
8
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Activities, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from 
time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  9
9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of US$70,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
Page  10
10
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
