Page  1
CONFORMED  COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7193-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 11, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7193-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated August 6, 2003 (the 
Development Policy Letter), from the Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic 
framework and a program of actions, objectives and policies for labor and social reform, 
covering social protection, labor law, public health and education (the Program), which 
Program consists of actions that have already been taken as described in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement (the First Phase of the Program), and actions and policies that the 
Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near future; (ii)  declaring th
e
Borrower’s 
commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
 
(B) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Page  3
-
2
-
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the First Phase of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(b) “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department; 
 
(c) 
“General Budget Law” means 
Ley de Presupuesto General de la Nación
,
approved by the Borrower on December 18, 2002 for the period covering the fiscal year 
starting on January 1, 2003 and ending on December 31, 2003; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
“
Hogares de Bienestar Familiar
”
means the day care center program 
supported and administered by ICBF (as hereinafter defined) aimed to support the social, 
moral and physical development of children under 7 years of age;  
 
(e) “ICBF” 
means 
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
,
the 
Borrower’s Institute for Family Welfare; 
 
(f) “ISS” 
means 
Instituto de Seguros Sociales
,
the Borrower’s Social 
Security Institute; 
 
(g) 
“Law 789” means the Borrower’s “
Ley por la cual se dictan Normas 
para Apoyar el Empleo y Ampliar la Protección Social y se modifican algunos artículos 
del Código Sustantivo de Trabajo
”, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on  
December 27, 2002; 
 
(h) “MEN” 
means 
Ministerio de Educación
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Education; 
 
(i) “MOF” 
means 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; 
 
(j) “MSP” 
means 
Ministerio de Protección Social
,
the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Social Protection; 
 
(k) “PAI” 
means 
Programa Ampliado de Inmunizaciones
,
the Borrower’s 
expanded program of immunizations; 
 
(l) 
“Presidential Decree No. 2030” means the Borrower’s 
Decreto por el 
cual se establecen los criterios y procedimientos para organizar las plantas de personal 
docente y administrativo del servicio educativo estatal que prestan las entidades 
territoriales
;
(m) “SENA” 
means 
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
,
the Borrower’s 
Learning National Service; and 
 
(n) “SISBEN” 
means
 Si
stema de Identificación y Selección de Beneficiarios 
de Programas Sociales; 
 referred as targeting instrument of social public expenditures 
under Law 715 dated December 2001, a system to rank households according to several 
socio economic variables.  Families classifed as SISBEN 1 are generally those with 
earnings below the extreme poverty line; families classified as SISBEN 2 are generally 
those with earnings above the extreme poverty line but below the poverty line. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $198,000,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, open and thereafter maintain in its central bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the interest rate basis 
applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate 
equal $200,000,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for 
the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01
.
The Borrower
 
shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any measure or action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework has become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; and (b) an action 
has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or policy under the 
Program (including any action or policy listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) in a 
manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date December 10, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza San Agustín 
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 8 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINHACIENDA 
 
43289 MHAC CO 
(571) 350-9344 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Bernardo Ortiz-Bravo   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero   
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2009 
 
through March 15, 2019 
4.55% 
 
On September 15, 2019 
4.45% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
Page  13
-
12
-
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Borrower’s Executive, through the issuance of a Presidential Decree, has 
created the Ministry of Social Protection, as a result of the merging of  the Borrower’s 
former Ministries of Labor and Health, which ministry will have under its responsibility 
the autonomous agencies formerly assigned to the Ministries of Labor and Health, 
including SENA, ISS and ICBF. 
 
2. 
ICBF, through an agreement of its board, has: (a) developed a policy to target 
ICBF’s assistance programs so as to benefit children belonging to SISBEN 1 and 2 
families; and (b) mandated ICBF management to: (i) develop, by March 2004, 
methodologies to estimate the share of the benefits going to such children; (ii) establish, 
by September 2004, quantitative targets to increase the share of said benefits for the 
period covering 2004-2006, based on a methodology acceptable to both the Borrower and 
the Bank; and (iii) establish by March 2004 a system for monitoring compliance with the 
above-mentioned targets and disseminating such information to the public. 
 
3. 
ICBF and DNP, through a joint memorandum of understanding, have committed 
to the evaluation of the impact and cost of the nutrition and other selected major 
programs detailed in the Development Policy Letter for the period 2003-2006, following 
a
time-line acceptable to both the Borrower (through ICBF and DNP) and the Bank. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has undertaken the following actions to strengthen the PAI: (i) 
issuance by MSP and MOF of a joint official document showing that the allocated 
resources in the Borrower’s 2003 budget are sufficient for reaching a ninety-five 
percentage (95%) immunization coverage target by 2006 for the targeted infant 
population; and (ii) issuance of a presidential decree which would require issuance of an 
immunization card to all children enrolled in public and private schools, as well as child 
care centers including 
Hogares de Bienestar Familiar.
 
5. 
The Borrower, through an official document issued by MSP, has expanded the 
subsidized health insurance coverage (
Régimen Subsidiado
)
by
at least 300,000 new 
affiliates, when compared to the number of said affiliates as of July 2002. 
 
6. Approval 
by 
the 
Borrow
er’s legislature and entry into effect of Law 789, as well 
as enactment of regulations for the implementation of said Law with respect to: (i) the 
waiving of  the payment of payroll taxes allocated for ICBF and SENA, as well as those 
allocated to the compulsory workers compensation fund (
Régimen de
 
Cajas de 
Compensación
), in order to promote the employment of hard to employ groups (including 
those of age 16-25, individuals over 50 years of age, unemployed household heads, and 
handicapped workers), as mandated by article 13 of Law 789; (ii) the reform of the 
compulsory workers compensation funds, to permit the use of said funds for employment 
Page  15
-
14
-
support and social protection, as mandated by articles 6, 7, 10 and 11 of Law 789; and 
(iii) the expansion of the apprenticeship program in order to permit, 
inter alia
,
the hiring 
of individuals from any accredited post-secondary or training program and the 
participation of private firms in the provision of training, as mandated by articles 12, 30 
and 32 of Law 789. 
 
7. 
The Borrower, through an official document issued by SENA, certifies that the 
total numbers of SENA short-course graduates during the period of August 2002-July 
2003 has increased by equal to more than fifty percent (50%) when compared to the 
number of said graduates during the immediately previous twelve month period, all 
without exceeding the resources provided by the General Budget Law.  
 
8. 
 The Borrower, through an official document issued by MEN, certifies that 
during the period covering the school year July 2002-June 2003, has attained an increase 
in: (i) the number of students enrolling in public basic and secondary education by at 
least 300,000 students; and (ii) the student to teacher ratio by at least one additional 
student per teacher in public primary and secondary schools. 
 
9. 
The Borrower’s has issued: (i) Presidential Decree No. 3020;
 
and (ii)
 
Oficio No
.
288 dated July 31, 2003, certifying that the student learning achievement testing in 
mathematics and language for grades 5 of primary school and grade 9 of secondary 
school has been completed in at least 90% of the Borrower’s municipalities. 
 
