                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 30289-ER


                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFI-Q0300 TF-21422 IDA-30230)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.4 MILLION
                                  (US$21.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE STATE OF

                                                ERITREA

                                                 FOR A

                                           HEALTH PROJECT




                                              June16, 2005




Human Development 1
Country Department 5
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 1997)

                           Currency Unit = Eritrea Nakfa
                                 1 Nakfa = US$ 0.074 (2004)
                                  US$ 1 = 13.5 Nakfa (2004)

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1    December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS         Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBA          Cost Benefit Analysis
CEA          Cost Effectiveness Analysis
DHS          Demographic and Health Survey
DO           Development Objective
FGM          Female Genital Mutilation
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOE          Government of Eritrea
HAMSET       HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STI & TB Control Project
HeaLY        Healthy Life-Years
HIV          Human Immune-Deficiency Virus
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
IMR          Infant Mortality Rate
ISS          Interim Support Strategy
KPI          Key Performance Indicator
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MBB          Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks
MDG          Millennium Development Goals
MMR          Maternal Mortality Ratio
MOH          Ministry of Health
NORAD        The Norwegian Agency for Development Co-operation
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PHC          Primary Health Care
PMU          Project Management Unit
PSR          Project Status Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
STI          Sexually Transmitted Infection
TB           Tuberculosis
TFR          Total Fertility Rate
TTL          Task Team Leader
U5MR         Under-five Mortality Rate


                        Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                      Country Director      Colin Bruce
                       Sector Manager       Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
     Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Christopher D. Walker

                                           ERITREA
                                        Health Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 8. Cofinancer's Comment                                                    37

Project ID: P043124                                                  Project Name: Health Project
Team Leader: Christopher D. Walker                                   TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health Project                                           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0300; TF-21422;
                                                                                                     IDA-30230
   Country/Department: ERITREA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (94%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: HIV/AIDS (P); Child health (P); Health system performance (P);
                            Nutrition and food security (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/07/1996                                     Effective: 03/23/1998                05/28/1998
     Appraisal: 10/17/1997                                         MTR: 11/30/2000                  03/05/2001
      Approval: 12/16/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:      The Norwegian Agency for Development Co-operation

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Colin Bruce                                    Oey Astra Mesook
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Arvil Van Adams
Team Leader at ICR:             Christopher D. Walker                          S. Sundararajan
ICR Primary Author:             Feng Zhao


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Eritrea Health Project was the first IDA-financed health project in Eritrea. Its development objective
needs to be assessed in a broad political, macro-economic and institutional context. Politically, the project
took place in a post-conflict situation and early implementation coincided with the border war between
Eritrea and Ethiopia from 1998 to 2000. The renewed border war brought devastating impacts to all
aspects of society--many lives were lost; one-third of the population (1.1 million) was displaced; public
and private infrastructure (including some of the project sites) were badly damaged or destroyed; food
production was almost completely interrupted; and the health status of the people was adversely affected.
Macro-economically, the war profoundly stressed Eritrea's economic development. After gaining
independence from Ethiopia in 1993, Eritrea went through a period of rapid and stable economic growth
from 1993 to 1997, with an annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate averaging 5.4 percent.
When the war broke out in 1998, GDP growth declined to less than 1 percent in 1999 (IMF, 2001). An
estimated 75 percent decline in crop production combined with the destruction and loss of physical capital
caused a 9 percent decline in GDP in 2000. Institutionally, particularly in the health sector, Eritrea faced a
series of great challenges. Health status was poor at the time of project preparation, with low life
expectancy at birth (around 46 years), a high infant mortality rate (76 per 1,000 live births) and under-five
mortality rate (136 per 1,000 live births), a high maternal mortality ratio (700 per 100,000 live births,
reaching 1,000 in some zones), and a great burden of communicable and preventable diseases (about 71
percent of Eritrea's total burden of disease). Those problems were largely blamed on a lack of physical and
financial access to health services, weak institutional capacity, poor environmental conditions, and
behavioral impediments to health.

The project's overall development objective was to improve the health status of the people of Eritrea,
thereby enhancing their quality of life and their ability to participate in the country's socio-economic
development. To achieve this, the project would improve health care services by: (i) expanding access to
secondary health care in two of the six regions, strengthening rural health services nationally, and
developing national blood bank services; and (ii) building the national and zonal capacity for the effective
and efficient management of health operations both at the program level and at the project level, with a
special emphasis on institutional capacity, human resources development, and financial sustainability. The
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) suggested that progress in achieving the development objective by the
end of the project would be evaluated based on the reduction in infant and under-five mortality rates,
maternal mortality rates, total fertility rates, and the prevalence of malnutrition, tuberculosis, malaria,
diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, sexually transmitted diseases, HIV/AIDS and female genital cutting.

The objective is considered relevant. As one of the poorest countries in the world which also suffered from
the adverse consequences of a long independence war and an ongoing border conflict, Eritrea was in great
need of external support for its health care system. The project was in line with Eritrea's national health
goal, which was to improve the health status and well-being of its population. The objective also reflected
the country's priorities for the health sector at that time by addressing two key issues in the Eritrea national
health policy--the need to ensure adequate access to health services of acceptable quality and the need to
build institutional capacity. In addition, the project was designed to support activities that did not have
sufficient resources from other donors or from the country's own budget.

The objective was consistent with both the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the 2000 Interim
Support Strategy (ISS). The 1996 CAS focused on poverty alleviation through sustained economic growth
and greater investments in long-term human capital development. The project supported this strategy
through its objective of improving the health status of the population in order to enhance their well-being,



                                                        - 2 -

quality of life and contribution to socio-economic development. IDA's ISS for Eritrea (2000) identifies
emergency reconstruction and HIV/AIDS as the focus of its operations in the short term. Although the
project became effective before 2000, it contributed to reconstruction by supporting the construction of two
regional hospitals, strengthening health centers, establishing the national blood bank, and building capacity
for the health sector. The operation of the health facilities and the blood bank would also contribute to
HIV/AIDS prevention and control.

The outcome indictors of the project's development objectives (DOs), however, were ambiguous. This was
due to the project's logical framework not being clearly and correctly defined, which caused a disconnect
among project outcomes, outputs, activities and inputs. International experience tells us that what makes
health complex is its multiple outcomes, multiple health interventions, multiple service delivery activities,
and multiple inputs. Different outcomes may arise from different health activities. The project failed to
clearly and directly link the outcome--output--activity--input production chain. Specifically, it did not
explain how the project activities would lead to improvements in the outcome indicators. For example, there
was no explanation in the PAD on how the construction of two regional hospitals and other project
activities would lead to a decrease in Female Genital Mutilation (FGM). In an otherwise positive review, a
2004 Quality Assurance Group (QAG) supervision review suggested that the project's development
objectives and key project indicators (KPIs) were not adequately linked to the activities supported by the
operation, making attribution of project achievements to the improved health outcomes virtually impossible.
In hindsight, it is obvious that a correctly defined log-frame, especially for the development of the outcome
indicators, would have helped avoid this design problem.

The development objective was also ambitious, especially given the country's pressing political and
economic environment. According to the PAD, the objective would be evaluated based on an ambitious set
of key indictors including infant and under-five mortality rates, maternal mortality rates, total fertility rates,
and the prevalence of malnutrition, tuberculosis, malaria, diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, sexually
transmitted diseases, HIV/AIDS and female genital mutilation. The indicators were too ambitious for one
project investing US$21.1million on focused interventions. In addition, while the project supported some
regional activities, such as the construction of the two hospitals and support to less than one-fifth of
primary health facilities, the KPIs were entirely national targets. This ambitious design not only made the
objective difficult to achieve, but also negatively affected the project's monitoring and evaluation process in
tracking these numerous indictors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objective remained unchanged throughout the project period, which was
unfortunate given the existence of the design problem mentioned above. The 2004 QAG review indicated
that the design problem was only recognized by the task team late in the project's life and was not
addressed by actions to remedy the problem.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components. Each component was further divided into two subcomponents.

Component One: Strengthening Health Care Services, including:
Sub-component 1a ­ Expanding Access to Secondary Referral Health Care in two Regions (US$ 13.1
million).
This sub-component mainly supported constructing, equipping and staffing two referral hospitals in
Barentu (Capital of Gash-Barka Zoba) and in Mendefera (Capital of Debub Zoba).

Sub-component 1b ­ Strengthening health services nationally (US$ 4.7 million).



                                                       - 3 -

This sub-component covered two areas: (i) supporting primary health facilities, such as health centers and
health stations, by providing equipment, furniture, essential drugs and vaccines, training providers, and
improving their management by better training, communication and supervision; and (ii) developing the
national blood bank services.

Component 2: capacity-building, including:
Sub-component 2a ­ Program management and sustainability (US$ 2.1 million)
Activities in this sub-component included improving sectoral planning and management, and financial
sustainability of the health programs. This was expected to be achieved through training, study tours, and
pilot interventions in order to enhance decentralization of decision-making, and to test local-level
mechanisms to raise, retain and utilize additional revenues for health services.

Sub-component 2b ­ Project management and implementation (US$1.2 million)
This sub-component covered capacity building for project management and implementation in the Ministry
of Health and in the zonal health offices.

The project components were carefully designed to fit into the overall Eritrean health sector's strategy at
that time. Specifically, they were chosen mainly because they were part of the government's health sector
priority strategies and because they did not have sufficient support from other donors and the government.
The project design also carefully looked into funding alternatives and to elaborate reasons for
acceptance/rejection. The alternatives discussed included exclusive financing of hospital construction,
exclusive support to primary care facilities, a Sector Investment Program (SIP), etc.

The project made efforts to balance investments in hardware and software and the two components focused
on both of these. But the large discrepancies in dollar amounts between hardware investment (84 percent)
and software investment (16 percent) were not justified in the PAD. In particular, 62 percent of the
investment went into the construction of two referral hospitals in relatively urban settings. This was
unusual for the Bank, as investing in primary health care in rural areas and targeting the poor had been
long-standing priorities. Although the PAD argued that the support for the two referral hospitals was
necessary given most basic health care facilities in the rural areas of Eritrea could not provide quality
services effectively without the necessary referral backup, more in-depth analyses on the rationale, impact
and sustainability of the referral hospitals should have been conducted during project development. Finally,
due to the design problem described in the previous section, the components were not clearly linked to the
project objective.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no major revisions of the design of original project components. But two adjustments in project
activities within the components were made during project implementation:

(i)     After the border war between Eritrea and Ethiopia erupted in May 1998, a major outbreak of
        malaria took place in 1998, resulting in the highest level of malaria morbidity and mortality in
        decades. To deal with this epidemic, the Bank agreed, upon a request from the government, to
        reallocate US$ 2.8 million from the training and study budget of the Credit to the malaria control
        program and to include malaria control activities under sub-component 1a (strengthening health
        services nationally). This reallocation later proved to be a wise decision and led to a start of one of
        the most successful malaria control programs in Sub-Saharan Africa (see the output by component
        section for details). Additionally, US$ 1.2 million was reallocated to support post-conflict
        emergency programs to help the health needs of the displaced population.




                                                       - 4 -

(ii)    During project implementation , two concerns were raised on the human resource issues related to
        the two referral hospitals. The first was the lack of overall health manpower in the country and the
        country's mobilization of manpower for the war which made the situation worse. Meeting the need
        for more health staff, when the two referral hospitals actually began operating, became a challenge.
        Second, the Bank supervision teams rightly advised the government not to weaken the primary
        health service by moving health staff from the primary health facilities to the two hospitals. To
        address these concerns, the project supported the country's strategy to train more health staff by
        including support to nurse training institutes under Component Two (Capacity-building), and
        follow-up support was provided by the Bank's second health project--the HIV/AIDS, Malaria,
        STIs & Tuberculosis Control (HAMSET) project (Cr. 3444-ER), which became effective in 2001.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was prepared under very difficult circumstances, and it was also the first Bank-financed health
project in Eritrea, an inexperienced client. Credit should be given to the project preparation teams for: (i)
efforts in ensuring the country's ownership by understanding the country's health sector priorities and the
clients' needs; (ii) taking into account other donors' plans and identifying investment gaps to make the
project useful and relevant; (iii) consistency with the CAS and ISS; (iv) elaborating alternatives and
reasons for rejection; (v) utilizing technical assistance from international experts in health management,
health economics, architectural design, medical equipment specialists, public health specialists and those
experienced in Bank operations; and, (vi) conducting economic analyses including the cost-benefit analysis
of the project investment and the fiscal burden of the two new hospitals on the Ministry of Health (MOH)
budget.

Nevertheless, the quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. First, the project suffered from the significant
design flaw discussed earlier--the disconnect between the project development objectives and KPIs, and the
project activities. During project preparation, the project took a global view to take into account the health
sector's need, other international partners' contributions, and the complementary role of the Bank's
subsequent project. While this sector-wide thinking should be generally encouraged, in this case it also
indirectly triggered the disconnect between the KPI and project activities. It seems the project design
assumed that the project activities, together with the government and other donors' efforts, would improve
the health system as a whole and, therefore, would lead to improvements of all the health outcome
indicators. In the context of the Bank's project design, this assumption was inappropriate because of its
indirect link between the project objectives and activities, and was inconsistent with the Bank's logical
framework. It also caused the project to lose track of what this particular project could achieve and did not
link the project activities with an appropriate and practical objective. Second, during appraisal, risk
assessments and sustainability were not discussed sufficiently, particularly the human resource issues for
the two large-scale hospitals. This raised serious concerns later about the possibility of draining health staff
from primary health facilities. The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team praises the project
design for its analysis and elaboration on scenarios for the recurrent cost of the two hospitals, but
concludes that a similar analysis should have been done for the human resource issue. Third, although it
took two and half years to prepare this project, the preparation was not complete. In particular, safeguard
policies were not fully complied with. The project was subjected to an environmental assessment since the
two hospitals supported by the project produce health care waste. However, the project appraisal did not
pay enough attention to environmental issues and missed the opportunity to formulate a health care waste
management plan. As the 2004 QAG review confirmed, no environment, social or financial management
assessments were conducted prior to the project Board presentation. Fourth, the design of the project
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was inappropriate, which was again in line with the design problem. For
example, the M&E was not able to measure progress on the reduction of FGM and the project did not
specify any specific intervention targeting FGM. The 2004 QAG supervision review is generally consistent



                                                       - 5 -

with the ICR evaluation of the project design.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project objective is deemed marginally unsatisfactory.

Despite the difficult socio-economic situation and the border war with Ethiopia, Eritrea has made
significant progress in improving the health status of its population. Based on the Demographic and Health
Surveys (DHS) in 1995 and 2002, achievements include:

          Ø Life expectancy increased from 45 in 1995 to 51 in 2002, above the Sub-Saharan African
                average of 47 in 2002.
          Ø Theinfantmortalityratedecreasedfrom72deathsper1,000livebirthsin1995to48in
                2002, well below the Sub-Saharan Africa average of 105.
          Ø Theunder-fivemortalityratedroppedfrom136deathsper1,000livebirthsin1995to93in
                2002, which compares favorably with the Sub-Saharan African average of 151.
          Ø HIVprevalencewascontrolledatalowlevelof2.4%,incomparisonwith7%forthe
                Sub-Saharan African average.
          Ø Thematernalmortalityratiowasreducedfrom998deathsper100,000livebirthsin1995to
                752 in 2002, below the Sub-Saharan African average of 870.
          Ø Totalfertilityrate(TFR)decreasedfrom6.1in1995to4.8in2002,belowtheSub-Saharan
                African average of 5.4.

These achievements are even more impressive when compared with most other low-income countries in
Sub-Saharan Africa suffering setbacks in health status. As a result, the majority of the KPI targets,
although ambitious and inappropriate, have been met or surpassed (see Annex 1 for details).

The attribution of these improvements cannot be made to this project alone. As indicated repeatedly in the
Project Status Reports (PSRs), other factors have contributed to the success. First, the slightly improved
socioeconomic situation after the border war with Ethiopia. Second, although this project was the largest
source of external funding for health in Eritrea when it was appraised, other subsequent health initiatives
(including the World Bank funded HAMSET and Integrated Early Childhood Development (Cr.34030)
projects), the role of other external partners, and the ongoing health sector reform, will have contributed to
improved health status. Finally, making the attribution even more difficult, is that the two referral hospitals
were not operational before the project closing date of December 31, 2004, due to the delayed completion
of construction work. Thus they did not contribute to health outcomes during the life of the project.

On the other hand, other project activities--establishing the national blood bank, supporting primary health
care, supporting the malaria control program, building capacity on program management and
sustainability, improving project management and implementation skills, and supporting the nurse training
institutions--were completed successfully, on time and produced much needed inputs to the health system.
The ICR team conducted an in-depth economic analysis to evaluate the impact and contributions of the
project (details see Annex 3). The results show that the project activities have achieved good results:

          Ø TherewasnonationalbloodbankinEritreabeforetheproject.Sinceitbecameoperational
                in 2002, the national blood bank has provided about 50 percent of the blood supply for the
                country. Due to its successful voluntary donor program as well as counseling and screening



                                                       - 6 -

               activities, blood safety has greatly improved in Eritrea. Based on the ICR team's
               cost-effectiveness analysis, the blood bank helped the country gain 163,440 Healthy Life
               Years (HeaLY) from its contribution to HIV/AIDS prevention alone. For each project dollar
               spent on the national blood bank activities, the project saved about 56 healthy days from
               HIV/AIDS.
          Ø Theprojectrevitalized30primaryhealthcarefacilities(12healthcentersand18health
               stations), which were not operational before the project support due to the lack of necessary
               equipment and furniture. The project also provided about US$ 1.2 million worth of essential
               drugs and supplies to Primary Health Care (PHC) facilities across all 6 zones. The support
               greatly improved health service coverage. Using a simulation tool (Marginal Budgeting for
               Bottlenecks), the ICR team estimated that the project accounted for about 10 percent of the
               infant mortality rate reduction and 9 percent of the under-five mortality rate reduction.
          Ø Theprojectprovidedcriticalsupporttothecountry'smalariacontrolprograminresponseto
               an epidemic outbreak during the border war. This project initiated IDA support to malaria
               control and later catalyzed further support by IDA and other partners. The support led to a
               sharp reduction in malaria mortality and morbidity in Eritrea that is virtually unprecedented
               in poor Sub-Saharan African countries. The ICR team estimates that for each project dollar
               spent on malaria control activities, about 10 healthy and productive days have been gained.
          Ø Theprojecthelpedimprovethecapacityofthesectorinprogramandprojectmanagement.In
               addition, with the project's support, more than 300 health professionals have graduated from
               the training programs, and are now working in facilities throughout the country.
          Ø TheMOHestimatesthatthetworeferralhospitalwillincreasetheout-patientandin-patient
               utilization in their catchment areas by 15 to 25 percent in the next three years.

The ICR also took into consideration that the delays in the completion of construction work were mainly
due to the intense border war from 1998 to 2001. During the war, many health facilities were bombed and
destroyed. Barentu and its hospital site were invaded by the Ethiopian troops causing unrecoverable delays
and postponement of the construction works. This was clearly beyond the project's control. In addition, the
commitment level from the MOH was excellent and the government has done everything within its ability to
implement the project to make up for delays in the hospital construction. For example, the Minister of
Health himself visited the hospital construction sites every two months in the final year of the project to
ensure smooth progress.

Although the KPIs have been met, the ICR team thinks that it is important to distinguish the achievements
by the country and the achievements by the project. The ICR team acknowledges that the country has
achieved impressive successes in a very difficult environment. However, the contribution of the project to
this success could not be clearly quantified (despite the ICR team's efforts to conduct an in-depth economic
analysis) and the major investment of the project (the two referral hospitals) has not contributed to the
PDO. In addition, the project design problem also affected the decision on the rating. The ICR team would
have rated the project satisfactory if its KPIs were output indicators (e.g. completion of the national blood
bank, bednet coverage, etc.) instead of the ambitious list of outcome indicators. This is an unusually
difficult circumstance to rate, and is finely balanced between marginally satisfactory and marginally
unsatisfactory. But in balance, the team rated the outcome marginally unsatisfactory.




                                                      - 7 -

        Table 1: Overall Progress of the Project Components
        Project components                         Major activities        Completion date
        Sub-component 1(a):                         Two referral hospitals June, 2005 (expected)
         Improving access to secondary care in
        two Zobas

        Sub-component 1(b): Strengthening           National Blood Bank    Became operational in March,
        health services nationally                                         2002; support for its operation
                                                                           continued to the end of the
                                                                           project.
                                                    Support to primary     2001
                                                   health care
                                                    National Malaria       2001 (follow-up support by the
                                                   Control Program         HAMSET project)
        Component 2 :                               Program management     2003
        Strengthening institutional                & sustainability
        capacity                                    Project management &   2003
                                                   implementation
                                                    Support to the nurse   2001 (follow-up support by
                                                   training institution    HAMSET funds)



4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1a ­ Expanding Access to Secondary Referral Health Care in two Regions: This
component is rated marginally unsatisfactory, although again it is very fine judgment call. This component
mainly involves the construction of the two regional referral hospitals in Mendefera (Debub region) and
Barentu (Gash Barka region), which were designed to have 144 and 168 beds, respectively.

From the start-up of the project, the hospital construction was plagued by problems and delays caused by
the ongoing border conflict. Early PSRs noted the delay in launching the project due to heightened tension
resulting from border skirmishes, which caused a delay in the design of the hospitals and the development
of construction documents. The tender documents for both Barentu and Mendefera referral hospitals were
not completed until the end of 2000. Just before construction was due to begin in 2000, severe fighting
broke out in the border regions. Barentu town was taken and seriously damaged by the Ethiopians and
Mendefera was very close to the fighting. Bombing near the Massawa harbor caused delays for imported
materials. Finally, as most men and many women in their productive years were called to the front, the
labor force was greatly reduced. There were also shortages of all kinds of goods within the country. All of
these concerns were validated in the following years, as the civil works team struggled to build and equip
the hospitals under difficult circumstances. Given the situation, the Bank eventually extended the project
closing date by 18 months.

The construction of the two hospitals began in February 2001 and was 95 percent complete by the extended
project closing date of December 31, 2004. Most of the construction delays during this period can be
attributed to, besides the effect of the lingering "no peace no war" border situation with Ethiopia, the
difficulties encountered by the contractors in securing building materials in a timely fashion. The
difficulties were numerous: (i) small shipments were often delayed when the quantities were too small to
warrant a container to Massawa, (ii) foreign currency limitations delayed payment to suppliers, and (iii)
approval from three separate entities including Maritime, Customs and the Port Authority had to be
obtained at the port in Massawa. Other delays were caused by design alterations, labor shortages, rainy
season inactivity and avoidable management problems between construction contractors and their suppliers.



                                                       - 8 -

The Government of Eritrea (GoE) made great efforts to move the construction forward. For example, the
Minister of Health himself conducted regular supervisory visits to the construction sites and held meetings
with all of the relevant parties to address the bottlenecks. The MOH agreed on a timetable in late 2004 and
an action plan for the few remaining items such as air-conditioning installation, medical gas systems, etc.
The two hospitals will be completed and commissioned in the third quarter of 2005 at the latest. The ICR
team visited both construction sites and was confident that the two hospitals would be properly completed
and commissioned. The ICR team acknowledged that the construction progress was good under the
unusually difficult circumstances, despite the delay.

The overall quality of the nearly finished hospitals is impressive; the consultant architect described the
hospitals as "well-designed and well-built hospitals, with a high standard of durability". Both hospitals
have well laid out out-patient departments with spacious and bright waiting areas. Security has been
well-considered with a clear division of public and private zones. Finishes have been carefully selected and
installed at both hospitals. Durable terrazzo has been used in most high traffic areas. Air conditioning has
been supplied only for the operating theatres and pharmacies, while overhead fans have been installed in
most other areas. Based on the medical waste management plan, also funded under the project, appropriate
incinerators were constructed. In short, the two hospitals rank among the best designed and constructed that
IDA has financed in Sub-Saharan Africa.

The MOH expects that the operation of the two hospitals will boost the health care services in the two
regions. Mendefera hospital, located in the administrative capital of the Debub region--a major
agricultural and densely populated area--will serve a catchment area of 500,000 people. Barentu hospital,
built on the outskirts of Barentu town and readily accessible from a newly paved road, will serve all of
Gash Barka region with a population of 700,000. Both hospitals will replace very old existing hospitals.
The MOH estimates a 15 to 25 percent increase in out-patient and in-patient utilization in the next three
years due to the increased capacity and improved service quality. In addition, the two regional hospitals,
equipped with conference rooms and training facilities, will serve as regional training centers for health
staff throughout the regions. A detailed staffing and financing plan covering the next three year for the
hospitals has been prepared by the government (Details see Section 6--Sustainability).

The ICR team suggests a future evaluation of the impact of the two hospitals by OED. An evaluation after
the hospitals become operational would add valuable evidence for the government and Bank's future
operations.

Component 1b ­ Strengthening health services nationally: This component is rated satisfactory. This
component included support to three activities to strengthen national health services: (i) the national blood
bank; (ii) primary health care facilities; and (iii) the malaria control program. All three activities have
successfully met or surpassed their targets.

National Blood Bank: The project invested US$ 1.06 million in the construction, equipping and recurrent
costs of the National Blood Bank. It became operational in March 2002. With continuing support from the
project (especially for the recurrent costs), the National Blood Bank is currently able to provide about 50
percent of the blood supply for the country. In 2004, blood was collected from 3,673 donors. Thanks to the
now 100 percent voluntary donor program as well as counselling and screening activities, blood safety has
improved greatly. HIV prevalence among blood donors has decreased from 4.6% in 1999 to 0.3% in 2004
among family/replacement donors and from 1.6% in 1999 to 0.2% in 2004 among voluntary donors. In
addition, a national blood policy and operational guideline has been formulated and implemented, with
technical support provided by the project to ensure a quality assurance mechanism for blood safety.


                                                        - 9 -

During the ICR mission, the team was impressed by the good management and smooth operation of the
National Blood Bank.

The ICR team estimates that support for the national blood bank was very effective. For its contribution to
HIV/AIDS prevention alone, the blood bank helped the country gain 163,440 Health Life Years (HeaLY).
For each project dollar spent on the national blood bank activities, about 56 healthy days resulted with a
confidence interval from 42 to 70 days.

Primary Health Care (PHC): From 1998 to 2001, the project provided the following support to the
country's primary health care: (a) 30 primary health care facilities (12 health centers and 18 health
stations), which were not functional before the project due to a lack of equipment and furniture. A total
amount of US$ 183,729 worth of equipment and furniture, including delivery beds, hospital beds,
examination couch, baby cribs, medication cabinets, drug dispensing tables, office tables and chairs etc.
were procured for these facilities (see table 2 below); and (b) about US$ 1.2 million worth of essential
drugs and supplies for PHC facilities across the 6 zones. The MOH data show that these inputs contributed
to the improvement of the health services from 1998 to 2003, including a 50 percent increase in antenatal
care visits, 26 percent increase in DPT3 immunization, and 25 percent increase in assisted delivery by a
medically trained staff.

The cost-benefit analysis shows that the support to Eritrea's primary health care generated a benefit of US$
1.59 million, which is only slightly more than the project investment of US$ 1.58 million on primary health
care. However, the contributions of the improved primary health care go beyond the dollar value. Using an
analytical tool--the Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks (MBB)--the ICR team estimates that 10 percent
of the reduction in the infant mortality rate and 9 percent of the reduction in the under-five mortality rates
from 1995 to 2002 can be attributed to the project support for primary health care (See Annex 3 for
details).

    Table 2: Support to primary health care facilities by Zoba (US$ Thousand)
                                     1999           2000        Total

             Zoba Anseba              12                         12

             Zoba Debub                5             65          70

             Zoba Gash Barka          15             66          81

             Northern Red Sea         15                         15

             Zoba Maekel               6                          6

                                                                 184

    Source: PMU, MOH
    Note: The Central Zoba was supported by other resources.


Malaria Control Program: As part of the effort to control the 1998 malaria epidemic, the project
contributed US$ 1.96 million to purchase malaria control supplies for health facilities across the country
(Table 3). An additional US$ 307,000 was spent on malaria training and workshops. The amount was the
largest external support to the country's malaria control program at that time. These activities were
finished in the early years of the project (1998--2001). After that, malaria control was supported by the
HAMSET project.




                                                       - 10 -

     Table 3: Support to malaria control program (US$ Thousand)
           Item          1999 ($)                       Qty     2000 ($)    Qty          2001($)                         Qty     Total ($)
    Malaria test kits       34                          417        -                         -                                     34
    Mosquito bed nets      296                         75,000    338       150,000          64                          35,000    697
    Sprayers                 -                           90       30                         -                                     30
    Temephose                -                          300        8                         -                                      8
    hemical
    DDT 75%                  -                         37,500    156                         -                                    156
    Anti Malaria Drugs       -                                   789                         -                                    789
    Permetrene              49                         2,000      43       2,000            43                                     92
    Pick Up Vehicles       160                           2         -                         -                                    160
                                                                                                                                  1,966



The support from this project came at a critical time, which not only helped the country control the
epidemic in 1998 but also resulted in one of the largest malaria morbidity and mortality reduction in the
country's history (Figure 1). Eritrea will be one of only a very few countries in Sub-Saharan Africa to meet
the Abuja Roll Back Malaria targets.

                        Figure 1: Trend in malaria morbidity and mortality rates in Eritrea

                                                  60                                          0.25
                                                                               Morbidity rate

                                                  50                           Mortality rate
                              1000                                                            0.2
                                                                                                   1000

                                  per             40
                                                                                              0.15     per

                                     Rate         30
                                                                                                          Rate
                                                                                              0.1
                                                  20

                                                                                              0.05
                                         Morbidity10                                                          Mortality

                                                   0                                          0
                                                     1998  1999 2000   2001  2002    2003

                                                                   Year


                          Source: MOH


Based on the ICR team's calculation, the malaria control program achieved good results, gaining a total of
23,211 Health Life Years (HeaLY). This project has significantly contributed to the gains and the project
money was well spent. It is estimated that for each project dollar spent on malaria control activities, 10
healthy and productive days with an interval estimation from 5 to 15 days have been saved from malaria.

Component 2a ­ Program management and sustainability: The component is rated as satisfactory, as
the project has completed all its planned activities. The project supported the following on-the-job training
activities during the project period.




                                                                    - 11 -

     Table 4: Number of participants for program management training
      Item                               Number of participants   Duration
     Study tour or training abroad on    8                        2-4 weeks
     management
     Workshop and training on            75                       14 days
     management of health services

The project also supported the College of Nursing and Health Technology in Asmara and two training
institutes in two regions (Debub and Central) for middle level professional training. With the project's
support, about 314 health workers have graduated and are now working in health facilities throughout the
country, and this has eased the shortage of health personnel and the emerging human resource needs due to
the expansion of health facilities.


     Table 5: Number of graduates supported by the project
      Program                                                   No. of graduates
     Regular nurses                                                     50
     Public health technicians                                          34
     Radiology technicians                                              14
     Nurse midwives                                                     25
     Ophthalmic officers                                                6
     Anesthesia nurses                                                  14
     Associate nurses from zones                                       171
     Total                                                             314



The project also provided support to the Eritrea Household Health Status and Expenditure Survey
(EHHUES), which was completed satisfactorily by the Balamand University of Health Sciences of Beirut ­
Lebanon. The survey provided evidence for the country's decision-making process, allowing for better
planning and linking of inputs with outputs.

Component 2b ­ Project management and implementation: This component is rated satisfactory. The
supported activities are summarized in the table below.

Table 6: Project support to project management and implementation
Items                                                             Participants     Duration
Workshops in project management                                        25          5-7 weeks
Training in financial management                                       2           2-4 weeks
Training in procurement                                                5           3-4 weeks
Workshops and training in disease prevention and control              108          7 days
Training on malaria control activities and treatment                  100          5 days
Training in syndromic approaches and algorithms                        80          3-5 days
Workshops on blood safety measures                                    100          3 days



These activities have improved the MOH capacity in project management and have shown positive results
both at the national level and at the local level. The PMU has been regarded, by both the Bank and the
government, as one of the best PMUs in the country.



                                                      - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has resulted in considerable institutional development. First, since its opening, the national
blood bank has played a central role in the country's blood supply and blood safety. The successful
establishment of this facility, together with its training activities, has improved the country's capacity in
blood supply and management markedly. Second, the malaria control program, revived by this project
during the border war, has evolved into one of the best programs in Sub-Saharan Africa. The success has
been reviewed and shared by other disease control programs and the experience and skills learnt from the
malaria program will contribute to the country's overall disease control efforts. In particular, the malaria
control program's strong performance at the grass-roots level--through the community malaria agents and
volunteers--has provided invaluable experience for the country's community-based interventions. Third,
the support to primary health care--enabling the services of 30 primary health facilities--has created
service practice opportunities for local staff. Fourth, the capacity-building efforts of this project, through
both on-the-job training and professional nurse training, have provided much needed human resources and
skills to health facilities throughout the country. Finally, improved management skills of the health sector,
notably the MOH's capacity and confidence to manage a project, have been significantly increased.

The two referral hospitals, which are planned to open in June 2005, are expected to have a significant
impact on the health sector, as they will become the regional training centers for both clinical care and
public health interventions. In addition, the MOH has gained experience in designing and constructing
hospitals and managing construction contracts, which are benefiting similar ongoing activities.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The border war has adversely affected the implementation of the project, especially in hospital
construction. Most of the factors causing the delays resulted directly from the conflict and include (i)
difficulties in securing building materials because shipments were drastically reduced at the almost idle port
in Massawa, (ii) foreign currency limitations delayed payment to suppliers (iii) complex clearance
requirements at the port in Massawa delayed shipments, (iv) labor shortages, and (v) fuel shortages.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There are several factors subject to government control that affected project performance. Less than
rigorous initial review of the designs for the highly-technical referral hospitals resulted in changes of design
after construction started, which contributed to the completion delays. The time consuming port clearance
and customs procedures also contributed to the delay. The 2004 QAG review mentioned that the physical
and price contingencies (3% and 4%, respectively) were unrealistically low, and contributed to the delay in
construction of one of the two hospitals.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Several adverse factors which were subject to control by the MOH included (i) management and
communication problems between the construction contractors and their suppliers, (ii) delayed payment to
the fiscally cautious contractors who slowed down work, and resisted paying suppliers until they had been



                                                       - 13 -

paid themselves, (iii) slow payment procedures due to multiple and variable orders, and (iv) contractors'
delays in procuring materials from abroad due to inefficient procurement planning.

5.4 Costs and financing:
When the two hospital construction finally started two years after the launch of the project and around the
time of the Mid Term Review (MTR), the prices of building materials and hospital equipment had escalated
due to supply shortages and increased transportation costs. These cost variations led to financing gaps in
the construction of the two referral hospitals. The Bank reallocated approximately US$ 5.3 million credit
from the HIV/AIDS, Malaria and TB Control Project (HAMSET) to cover the cost overrun from the
hospital construction.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely in the short term, with some uncertainty in the long term.

The construction quality of the two hospitals ensures sustainable operation. Based inter alia on the
architect's evaluation, the building design and the quality of construction and equipment installation of the
hospital is impressive. High quality building materials applied by skillful craftsmen will ensure that the
physical plant will enjoy a long life, assuming reasonable maintenance. In addition, boreholes have been
dug, water towers constructed, and large underground rainwater-runoff holding tanks constructed, all of
which help to make the hospitals self-sufficient with respect to water use. Air conditioning, which is a high
energy user, has been limited to those areas which require it such as operating theatres and pharmacy
stores, and landscaping has been intelligently designed and executed with the planting of many trees (while
the hospitals were still under construction) which will provide natural cooling. Arrangements for routine
maintenance of buildings and equipment have been made.

The three-year staffing and recurrent cost plans give some confidence about short term sustainability.
To ensure sustainability of the hospital, the two Zobas (Garsh Barka and Debub) where the two hospitals
are located, have each established a regional hospital commissioning team. These teams, together with the
MOH, have provided a detailed staffing and financing plan covering the next three years. According to the
plans, the staffing and operation of both hospitals will be in three phases. The first phase involves
transferring the current staff from the to-be-replaced zonal hospitals.

           Table 7: Staffing plans for the two referral hospitals
                                     Available           Phase 1: 2005         Phase 2: 2006     Phase 3: 2007
             Barentu hospital              91               181                    194                238
             Mendefera hospital          119                193                    245                283
           Note: the numbers in the table refer to total number of staff including non-technical staff.


The combined increase includes an additional 18 doctors; 61 nurses; 52 associate nurses; and 33
technicians. A small number of additional skilled administrative staff are included (2 personnel managers
and 2 finance clerks). The remaining 133 non-technical support staff should be available in the local job
market. The number of increased technical staff counts for about 2 percent of the overall health staff in the
country (2003 data).

Due to the lack of an overall human resource strategy and training data, it is difficult to evaluate the
feasibility of the plan at this time. The government has assured that the main sources for the additional staff



                                                         - 14 -

needed by the hospitals would be the newly trained staff, rather than staff transferred from primary health
facilities. The project has funded the establishment of two training schools for Associate Nurses at zoba
level. This has greatly increased the training output and 171 nurses will graduate in December 2004. As a
result, 30 newly graduated associate nurses have been assigned to Mendefera hospital and 15 to Barentu
hospital. The management of the new larger hospitals will be more challenging than that which most
hospital directors are used to. Some management training has been provided to hospital directors and senior
management teams, although it was agreed that more training is needed.

In addition, plans to finance the recurrent costs of the two hospitals have been prepared by the Ministry of
Health and the Zoba governments to ensure the operation cost for at least the first three years. During the
ICR mission, the representative from the Ministry of Finance confirmed that the plan had government
approval.


      Table 8: Financing plans for the two referral hospitals ( in Nafka)
                                     2005                 2006                2007
        Barentu hospital             5,675,229            6,242,752           6,867,027
        Mendefera hospital           7,848,788            8,633,666           9,497,033
      (Official exchange rate: 1US$=13.5 Nafka)

Long term uncertainty casts doubts on sustainability. The government has prepared a detailed
three-year plan ensuring the operating costs and human resources for the two hospitals after project
closing. Sustainability beyond the three years remains unclear, given the country's pressing socioeconomic
situation. The MOH has formulated ideas on self-sufficiency for the two hospitals through generating their
own income in a variety of innovative ways, but no detailed studies on feasibility and no specific plans on
implementation have been carried out. On the positive side, the Bank's ongoing HAMSET project and
upcoming HAMSET II project have and will provide an effective mechanism to continue the dialogue on
sustainability issues.

Sustainability for other project activities is likely. Other project activities, including support to the
national blood bank, primary health care and the malaria control program, were completed in 2001 and
2002. After the project's support, they continued to operate smoothly. The government has in a few
instances used resources from the subsequent Bank's HAMSET project and other donors' support or more
generally it has invested in the activities from its own budget. The continued operation of project activities
has been secured. This is an indication of the government's commitment to sustainability and provides
some reassurance for the sustainability of the two hospitals.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The completed project activities have already been integrated into the regular operation of the MOH. For
example, the national blood bank not only operates well itself, but also technically guides the operations of
other regional blood banks in the Zobas. The national malaria control program, a department in the MOH
and with close vertical ties with the Zobas, has continued its successful operations. The project-supported
primary health care facilities are an integral part of the nation's primary health care system.

For the two hospitals, the three-year detailed staffing and recurrent cost plans have provided assurance for
the transition and operation of the two hospitals.




                                                      - 15 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending performance is rated as unsatisfactory, mainly due to the shortcomings outlined in Section
3.5, including flaws in project design, complexity, inadequacy of performance indicators and lack of
consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies.

In addition, the project preparation was criticized by the Country Director at that time for its high cost and
large number of mission members. The appraisal mission, comprising 8 mission members, left many
technical issues unresolved. A Task Team Leader (TTL) change during the appraisal period complicated
the situation.

On the positive side, the Bank was highly responsive to the sector priorities and strategies of GoE,
emphasizing client ownership, and also ensuring consistency with the CAS for Eritrea.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. The project was managed under a very difficult
environment. Credit should be given to the supervision team for taking into consideration the country's
difficult political and macroeconomic circumstances, and for being flexible and proactive in meeting the
client's need. For example, the Bank quickly responded to the client's requests and reallocated funds to
address the malaria epidemic and the need for emergency drugs and supplies. The QAG 2004 supervision
review congratulated the supervision team for using the project as a vehicle to broaden the policy dialogue
with the government and for working with other donors to ensure complementarity, rather than duplicating
efforts in areas being already addressed. The supervision also paid attention to the safeguard issues, helping
the country develop a health care waste management plan and environmental management plan. The
missions properly included an architect to help the country identify and solve issues in hospital construction
and also made efforts to keep the same consultant architect to ensure continuity. Procurement and financial
management were conducted properly. An independent assessment of procurement under IDA projects in
Eritrea rated this project as satisfactory.

The 2004 QAG review gave the project supervision a Moderately Satisfactory overall rating. The panel
raised several concerns. First, the MTR missed the opportunity to fix the disconnect between the DOs and
the KPIs. Second, the task team concentrated on hardware aspects during the two years under review. In
the Panel's view, the team should have continued to pay closer attention to the capacity building and
training aspects of the project. Third, more attention should have been given to the sustainability issue,
especially on recurrent cost financing. The task team disagreed with the QAG's second conclusion, arguing
that the reason for focusing on the hospital construction was that other project activities had been
completed and the hospital construction was the only remaining item. The later supervision mission after
the QAG review emphasized the sustainability issues, particularly for the two hospitals. As a result, the
government prepared a detailed and practical three-year staffing and operation plan for the two hospitals.

In the government's own completion evaluation, the government has rated the Bank's support during
supervision as "excellent".

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, the overall Bank performance is moderately satisfactory.




                                                     - 16 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is assessed as satisfactory. The government was highly
committed in preparing the project, with the Minister of Health himself leading the MOH team and with all
the relevant departments involved. The country's clearly-defined health sector strategy set the foundation
for the project design, and the leadership and vision provided by the MOH ensured the project reflected the
country's priorities and sector policy. An interview with the TTL who conducted the appraisal indicated
close cooperation between the Government and the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance is assessed as satisfactory. Given the difficult political and
macroeconomic situation, the over-ambitious design of targets and inexperience with Bank projects, the
government performed exceptionally well. The ICR mission was impressed with the government's
commitment, technical ability, and excellent coordination among the relevant programs and regions. The
QAG review praised the "excellent" country ownership of the project. The completion delay of the hospital
construction and cost overrun was largely due to the war and factors beyond the government's control. But,
it should be pointed out that changes in design of the two hospitals by the MOH contributed to the delays
and the cost overrun.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance was assessed as satisfactory. The MOH and PMU performed well
despite the border war and stressed economic situation. One of the successes was due to the good
relationship and coordination between with the key departments of MOH and the regions. The PMU staff
was highly committed to the job and well capable of dealing with project management. In addition, the
PMU managed to keep its key personnel unchanged throughout the project, which contributed to its
increased capacity in managing and implementing the Bank project. This PMU has become probably the
best implementing agency in the country. The Bank's subsequent HAMSET project, a star performer in the
country's portfolio and managed by the same PMU, has greatly benefited from this increased capacity.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    During project preparation:

        Ø Avoidambitiousdevelopmentobjectivesandinappropriatekeyperformanceindicators,
             especially in post-conflict and ongoing border dispute situations. Be realistic and modest with
             what one project can achieve.
        Ø FollowtheprincipleoftheBank'sLog-Framework(orResultFramework)inprojectdesign
             and M&E. Avoid using higher level objectives (such as mortality reduction) as project
             development objectives.
        Ø Projectdesignshouldbebuiltonsolideconomicandsectorwork(ESW).Thisprojectsuffered
             from a lack of analytical work in the country. Looking back, some health sector analyses,
             particularly on the status of the country's primary and secondary health care, would have
             helped the project preparation significantly.
        Ø Involvingasafeguardspecialistearlyintheprojectpreparationwouldhaveavoided
             insufficient attention to safeguard issues.
        Ø Borrower'scommitmentandownershipareprerequisitesforsuccess.Thisproject'seffortsto
             understand the client's needs and to reflect the country's priorities in the project were crucial.



                                                     - 17 -

   Ø Itisimportanttohaveariskmanagementframework--toanticipateandpreventpotentialrisks
        and to set up a reasonable contingency plan to mitigate the risk. In this case, although the
        border war could not be predicted, a reasonable contingency plan, particularly on the
        construction cost, would have helped cope with the risks.
   Ø Fortheconstructionoflargehospitalsorhealthfacilities,comprehensiveassessmentsshould
        be conducted to cover human resources, recurrent costs, financing, and institutional impact.
   Ø Alargenumberofmissionmembersdonotnecessarilyleadtoasuccessfulprojectdesignand
        may become counter-productive. The important factors for success in project design are
        expertise and an appropriate mix of skills.

During project implementation:

   Ø Projectactivitiescanbesuccessfulevenunderverydifficultpoliticalandeconomic
        circumstances and with a flawed project design, such as the malaria control program and
        national blood bank in this project. The key factors were a government highly committed to
        the project, strong leadership in the MOH, a capable and motivated implementing agency, and
        the Bank's commitment to country ownership and willingness to help during supervision.
   Ø Thegovernment'scommitmentandleadershipdomakeadifference.Duringtheproject,the
        Minister of Health--with his vision, problem-solving skills, personal influence on other
        government agencies, persistent follow-up, personal supervision, and frequent interaction with
        the Bank supervision missions--made a great contribution to the project's progress.
   Ø Maintainingkeypersonnelintheimplementingagency(PMU)toensurecontinuityand
        increased capacity is very important. The PMU managed to keep most of the key staff
        unchanged and they have grown from having little experience to being fully capable of
        managing a project, and on to become a star performer in the country.
   Ø Beingflexibleandwillingtolistenandhelpclients'needs,andhavingcloseworking
        relationship with clients can help. The Bank's supervision of this project has been a
        good example. The trust and credibility built during project implementation has allowed the
        Bank to broaden the policy dialogue with the government.
   Ø TakeadvantageoftheMTRtosystematicallyexaminetheproject,includingtheproject
        development objective and key performance indicators. It was a missed opportunity for the
        MTR of this project not to correct the project design problems.
   Ø FrequentchangesoftheTTLwouldjeopardizeprojectperformance.Inthecaseofthisproject,
        there were at least 5 TTL changes, which may have contributed to the problems identified by
        the QAG review.

Hospital construction

The project has learnt useful lessons from the construction of the two hospitals, which can be shared
with other projects involving hospital construction:

   Ø Oncetenderdocumentsforcivilworkshavebeenfinalizedandcontractsmade,changes
        should only be made if absolutely necessary. Changes in the scope and design of civil works,
        after contracts have been signed, or during construction, cause delays and increase costs.
        Examples occurring in the construction of the referral hospitals include i) expanding the scope
        of medical gas to all wards, ii) adding elevators, and iii) changing the layout of nurses' stations
        in the wards after construction was almost complete.
   Ø Tenderdocumentsforconstructionandprocurementshouldbecarefullyscrutinized:A
        number of omissions to the tender documents for the referral hospitals created the need for


                                                - 18 -

            additional design work and additional costs, for example (i) railings for open corridors were
            not included in contracts, (ii) laboratory benching was not included in the Mendefera contract,
            (iii) ceiling designs and other construction details were not adequately resolved in the
            construction documents, and (iv) some major items of built-in equipment were accidentally
            omitted from the procurement lists.
        Ø Expertiseisneededinthecoordinationofhighly-technicalbuilt-inhospitalequipmentwith
            the civil works contractors: During the final stages of hospital construction, no one seemed to
            have specific responsibility for coordinating the installation of built-in equipment with the civil
            works contractors. Since the contractors did not have rough-in requirements for much of the
            equipment, a lot of extra work was required once the built-in equipment was unpacked and
            readied for installation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    The government's comments on the ICR are included in the following letter:


                                     PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT

                                              Ministry of Health

                                  For International Development Association

                                           Assisted Health Projects
                                                                                           Ref: PMU/742/2005
                                                                                                 May 20, 2005

To:
Mr. Christopher Walker
Task Team Leader
Lead Health Specialist, AFTH1
MSN J10-1000, Tel. 202-458-0729 Fax: 202-473-8299 The World Bank

Dr. Feng Zhao Health Specialist The World Bank

Re: Comments on the ICR for Health Project CR ­ 3023

Dear Sirs,

In reference to your letter dated May 11, 2005 with regards to the subject cited above, please be advised
that we have read the document thoroughly and we seize this opportunity to express our appreciation for
the well done document while at the same time we have come up with the following comments and remarks
for your consideration and due action.

    1. Concerning the assessment stated the project objectives and outputs being deemed unsatisfactory:
        Please note that owing to the project design problem affecting the decision on the above rating and
        the indicators being outcome instead of out put indicators has made the assessment unusually
        difficult circumstances to rate especially before the constructed hospitals demonstrated to provide
        public services.




                                                     - 19 -

     2. Besides the sustainability of the two hospitals was also put under scrutiny in the ICR.

In view of the above we propose that the assessment and further rating associated to this as well as
confirmation on the sustainability of the hospital, be made after two years i.e. after allowing the hospitals to
provide services in which case this window period will allow both the Ministry of Health and IDA to
critically determine as well as assess the impact and sustainability of these hospitals as required to be
established in the final ICR.

     Regards,




Dr. Eyob Tekle
Project Manager

During the ICR mission, the government also prepared its own ICR, which is available on request from the
primary author of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers:
     The Norwegian Agency for Development Co-operation (NORAD) was the only cofinancier of this
     project, providing a grant of USD 2.7 million for expanding access to secondary health care and
     strengthening health services nationally. To evaluate the project, the Norwegian Embassy conducted a
     field visit to Mendefera hospital in February 2005 and shared the findings of the visit with the ICR
     team. The Embassy suggested that the ICR team use the findings of the field visit as NORAD's
     comments on the project. Please see Annex 8 for the findings of the Norwegian Embassy's field visit.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
     No comments were received from NGOs and the private sector.


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
% of care-seeking populations using modern 70%                                             70%
health care services (to be monitored for
each level of facility, by gender, and area of
residence).
% of pregnancies with at least 3 ANC visits    65%                                         65%
Median Distance to primary health center       7 kms                                       5 kms
Bed-occupancy ratios (by type of facility,     Health center at 60%; health station at 70% Health center at 60%; health station at 70%
gender)
% of patients treated with positive outcomes 80%                                           75%
(cured or improved) by type of facility, gender
and diagnosis
% of public services financed from local       70%                                         70%
sources
Reduction in infant mortality rate (per 1,000  60                                          48
live births)
Reduction in under-five mortality rate (per    100                                         93
1,000 live-births)
Reduction in maternal mortality ratio (per     900                                         998
100,000 live-births)
Reduction in total fertility rate              5.5                                         4.8
Prevalence of stunting among under-5           56%                                         38%
children (%)
Prevalence of TB (per 10,000)                  50
Prevalence of AIDS (per 10,000)                0.3                                         0.024
Incidence of malaria (new cases/10,000/year) 900                                           110
Prevalence of low BMI among women 15-49
years (%)
Incidence of diarrhea (episodes per under-5    8
child/yr)
Incidence of ARI (episodes per under-5         12
child/year)
Incidence of STD (new cases/10,000/year)
Prevalence of FGM practices (% of girls        60%                                         50%
under 10 years)


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
% of referral hospital construction completed 100%                                         90%
(in Mendefera and Barentu)
% of planned equipment procured for referral 100%                                          99%
hospitals (Mendefera and Barentu)
% of planned equipment procured for central                                                100%
blood bank
% of central blood bank constructed                                                        100%
% of health centers fully equipped, staffed    100%
and without stockouts
% of cases referred by health center/health    60%                                         65%
stations, who actually get treated at the
referral hospital
% of two referral hospitals fully equipped,    100%                                        99%
staffed, and operational.
% of hospital services which come from         50%
referrals
% of health budgets fully controlled by zonal  50%                                         50%




                                                                 - 21 -

offices
% of facilities with modern communication   80%               80%
system
% of user fees locally retained             20%               20%
% of facilities submitting completed SEMISH 100%              100%
Reports
% of planned expenditures actually incurred 95%               95%
(by category)
% of planned training programs completed    90%               90%
% of planned recruitment completed          30%               30%

1End of project




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate           Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million    US$ million
Expanding access to Secondary Health Care in Two Zones         13.10             13.07                100
Strengthening health services nationally                        4.70              6.34                135
Program Management and sustainability                           2.10              1.28                  61
Project Management & Implementation                             1.20              1.94                162

Total Baseline Cost                                            21.10             22.63
                         Total Project Costs                   21.10             22.63
                   Total Financing Required                    21.10             22.63
* Note: Additional US$ 5.3 million was reallocated from the HAMSET project to cover the cost overrun of
the two hospitals.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                 Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB
                                                      NCB                2
                                                                  Other            N.B.F.       Total Cost
 1. Works                            6.65             0.23           0.00            0.00            6.88
                                    (6.00)           (0.22)        (0.00)          (0.00)            (6.22)
2. Goods                             5.35             2.25           0.25            0.00            7.85
                                    (5.17)           (1.62)        (0.22)          (0.00)            (7.01)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00           0.94            0.00            0.94
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.80)          (0.00)            (0.80)
4. Drugs and Vaccines                1.00             0.00           0.00            0.00            1.00
                                    (1.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)            (1.00)
5. Studies, Survey and               0.00             0.00           0.40            0.00            0.40
Research                            (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.40)          (0.00)            (0.40)
6. Training                          0.00             0.00           1.45            0.00            1.45
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (1.45)          (0.00)            (1.45)
7. Incremental Operating             0.00             0.00           1.01            0.72            1.73
Costs                               (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.51)          (0.00)            (0.51)
8. Refinancing of PPF                0.00             0.00           0.80            0.00            0.80
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.80)          (0.00)            (0.80)
   Total                            13.00             2.48           4.85            0.72            21.10
                                    (12.21)          (1.84)        (4.18)          (0.00)           (18.23)




                                                 - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 10.76              0.23              0.00             0.00             10.99
                                           (6.61)             (0.22)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (6.83)
   2. Goods                                 5.35               2.25              0.25             0.00              7.85
                                           (5.17)             (1.62)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (7.01)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.94             0.00              0.94
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.80)            (0.00)           (0.80)
   4. Drugs and Vaccines                    1.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              1.00
                                           (1.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)
   5. Studies, Survey and                   0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
   Research                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (0.40)
   6. Training                              0.00               0.00              1.45             0.00              1.45
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.45)            (0.00)           (1.45)
       Total                                17.11              2.48              3.04             0.00             22.63
                                           (12.78)            (1.84)            (2.87)            (0.00)           (17.49)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Expanding Access to            11.18         1.92                    10.19         0.93       1.95       91.1      48.4
Secondary Health Care in
Two Zones
Strengthening health            3.75         0.95                     4.91         0.63       0.80       130.9     66.3
services nationally
Program Management and          1.84         0.26                     0.91         0.37       0.00       49.5     142.3
Sustainability
Project Management and          0.81         0.39                     1.48         0.46       0.00       182.7    117.9
Implementation
PPF                             0.80                                                                      0.0




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

This annex summarizes the findings of the economic analyses conducted by the ICR task team. The
purpose of the analyses is to better understand the benefits and effectiveness as well as the impact of the
project. The analyses cover the four main project activities and the results are summarized as follows:

    Malaria control program: The malaria control program achieved good results, gaining a total of
    23,211 Health Life Years (HeaLY) from 1998 to 2003. This project has significantly contributed to the
    gains and project money was effectively spent. It is estimated that for each project dollar spent on
    malaria control activities, 10 healthy and productive days with an interval estimation from 5 to 15 days
    have been saved from malaria.

    The impact of the national blood bank on HIV/AIDS: Support for the national blood bank has resulted
    in considerable gains in HeaLY. For its contribution to HIV/AIDS prevention alone, the blood bank
    helped the country gain 163,440 Health Life Years (HeaLY). For each project dollar spent on national
    blood bank activities, the project obtained 56 healthy days with a confidence interval from 42 to 70
    days.

    Support for primary health care nationally: The cost-benefit analysis shows that the support to
    Eritrea's primary health care generated a benefit of US$ 1.59 million, which is slightly more than the
    project investment of US$ 1.58 on primary health care. However, the contributions of improved
    primary health care go beyond the dollar value. Using an analytical tool--the MBB--the ICR team
    estimates that the 10 percent reduction of the infant mortality rates and the 9 percent reduction of the
    under-five mortality rates from 1998 to 2002 can be attributed to the project's support for primary
    health care.

    The construction of the two referral hospitals: The to-be-finished hospitals are projected to generate a
    benefit of US$5.1 million, which is close to the project investment amount estimated by the Project
    Appraisal Document (PAD) and lower than the actual investment due to the cost overrun. This
    cost-benefit analysis was only based on inpatient and outpatient charges for the benefit, which could
    underestimate the project contribution.

Methods

One prerequisite for economic evaluations is to clarify the linkage among inputs, outputs and outcomes in
the health production process. Among the four major activities included in the analysis, the malaria control
program is the only activity that can be clearly defined for its linkage between the project investment and
the outcome (reduced malaria morbidity and mortality). This is mainly because malaria control is a single
disease intervention. In contrast, the improved blood supply and safety due to the establishment of the
national blood bank could contribute to multiple health outputs/outcomes such as reduction in incidences of
HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis B and C, improvement of hospital emergency care and operations, etc. Due to the
lack of data, this analysis can only estimate the national blood bank's impact on HIV/AIDS. Therefore, the
results only represent a lower boundary of the overall contributions by the national blood bank. Even more
difficult is evaluating the support to primary health care and the investment in the two referral hospitals.
These are system investments, aimed at improving the health sector as a whole and do not normally target
just a few specific health outcomes. Since the project's support of primary health care was completed in
2001, the availability of the data on the improvement of several specific health
interventions--immunization, antenatal care visits, modern contraceptives use and assisted
deliveries--helped to quantify the attribution of the project support to the reduction in child mortality. On



                                                     - 25 -

the other hand, the two hospitals were not completed when the ICR evaluation was conducted , therefore
the only option is to improve the cost-benefit analysis presented in the PAD, using more up-to-date
projection data.

Based on the recommendation from the Bank's Handbook on Economic Analysis of Investment Operations
(1998, OPR), cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis (or weighted cost-effectiveness analysis) are more
appropriate for health projects than cost-benefit analysis for two reasons. One is the difficulty of assigning
monetary value to health outcomes and hence of conducting a cost-benefit analysis. Two is that the
objective of a health project is normally to improve the health status of a certain population and not just to
generate economic benefits. Therefore, a health project should be evaluated as to what extent it contributes
to the improvement of health status, usually measured in a non-monetary term called effectiveness. This
evaluation followed this recommendation whenever the data allowed. First, we used cost-utility analysis for
the project's malaria control activities and the impact of the national blood bank on HIV/AIDS. In
particular, we used Healthy Life-Years (HeaLY) to measure the effectiveness of the project. The Healthy
Life-Years approach(see footnote 1) was recommended by the Bank for its ability to incorporate both
mortality and morbidity into a single summary measure and for its simplicity of use especially with limited
information. Second, efforts were made to quantify the contribution of the project's support for primary
health care to child mortality, using the MBB tool. The MBB tool was jointly developed by UNICEF,
WHO and the World Bank to help countries estimate the cost and impact of scaling up health services in
order to reach the MDGs. Using epidemiological data, the MBB is able to quantify how much improved
health services could contribute to the reduction in child mortality. Finally, the PAD used cost-benefit
analysis to estimate the benefit of the project, particular for the two hospitals. Without data available to
conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis, we simply updated the cost-benefit analysis in the PAD with more
recent data.

Malaria control program

The HeaLY approach assumes that an average person is expected to live up to the age of the life
expectancy in a country. During this life span, deaths before the life expectancy and disability caused by
morbidity will cause the society to lose some HeaLY. The total HeaLY lost to a particular disease is a sum
of the HeaLY lost to deaths and the HeaLY lost to disability due to this disease.

        Total HeaLY lost = HeaLY lost to mortality + HeaLY lost to morbidity

     HeaLY lost to mortality and morbidity are calculated separately as follows:

     HeaLY lost to mortality = number of deaths * (life expectancy ­ average age at death due to
     malaria)

      HeaLY lost to morbidity = number of cases * number of productive days lost for each case

The calculation covered the project support period from 1998 to 2003. The number of cases and deaths for
each year was calculated based on the corresponding malaria morbidity and mortality rates. We estimated
the average age at death due to malaria by using the weighted average of malaria deaths by age group. The
average duration of disability for each malaria episode is estimated as 12 days by the Ministry of Health.
Based on this information, the total HeaLY lost from 1999 to 2003 can be calculated.
_______________________________
Footnote:(1) Hyder A., Rotllant G., Morrow R.H. Measuring the burden of disease: Health Life-Years. American
Journal of Public Health. Feb 1998; 88(2) Pg. 196.



                                                      - 26 -

To calculate the total HeaLY saved by the malaria control program, we used the level of morbidity and
mortality in 1998 as a baseline, assuming the 1998 level would be maintained if no malaria intervention
took place. Therefore, the HeaLY saved is the difference between the HeaLY lost in 1998 and the HeaLY
lost in each of the project support years (1999-2003).

To ensure that our estimate captures the true value, we conducted a sensitivity analysis to include both
point and interval estimates. The country estimates that this project contributed up to 50 percent of malaria
control efforts. We used 50 percent as the point estimate and also introduced 25 percent as the low case
scenario and 75 percent as the high case scenario.

The total project investment on malaria control activities is approximately US$ 2.1 million.

As a result, the HeaLY-cost ratio for the project on malaria control is 10 days per dollar, with a lower
boundary of 5 days per dollar and a higher boundary of 15 days per dollar.


Annex 3 -Table 1: Calculation of the total HeaLY saved from malaria
                                  1998
 Parameters                     baseline     1999      2000         2001          2002            2003        Total

Morbidity per 1,000                53         31        18            19            10            10.5

Mortality per 1,000                0.2       0.08      0.04         0.047         0.03            0.02

Population                      3,879,000  3,991,000 4,097,000   4,199,000     4,297,000       4,389,000

Life expectancy                    47         47        47            47            47             47

Average age at death*              18         18        18            18            18             18
Average duration of disability
(in days)**                        12         12        12            12            12             12
HeaLY lost to deaths (in
days)                            22,498      9,259     4,753        5,723        3,738            2,546
HeaLY lost to disability (in
days)                             6,759      4,068     2,425        2,623        1,413            1,515
Saved HeaLY to deaths (in
days)                                       13,941    18,447        17,477       19,462          20,654       89,981
Saved HeaLY to disability (in
days)                                        2,902     4,545        4,347        5,557            5,455       22,806

                                                                Total HeaLY saved (in days):                 112,788

                                                                                            Low case: 25%=   5 days/$
                                                    Ratio of HeaLY/ project
                                                    cost                                Point estimate: 50%= 10 days/$

                                                                                            High case: 75%=  15 days/$




The impact of the national blood bank on HIV/AIDS

The HeaLY approach was also used to calculate the impact of the national blood bank on HIV/AIDS.
WHO estimates that 10 percent of HIV/AIDS cases are caused by blood transfusion. Based on this
estimate and the HIV prevalence data of the country, we estimated that about 7,200 possible blood
transmitted HIV cases have been prevented due to improved blood safety during the project period. Then
we used WHO/UNAIDS's information on Sub-Sahara African's average age of HIV infection, average age
at death due to AIDS, and extent of disability for people living with HIV/AIDS. Using the same formulas
presented in that last section, we calculated the total HeaLY saved due to the improved blood safety during



                                                      - 27 -

the project 163,440 years (59,737,320 days). The ratio of HeaLY and project cost is 56 days per dollar. A
sensitivity analysis giving a minus and plus 25 percent interval shows that the lower boundary is 42 days
per dollar and the high boundary is 70 days per dollar. In any case, this intervention is very cost-effective.


Annex 3 -Table 2: Impact of the national blood bank on HIV/AIDS
Parameter                                               Value               Unit
HIV prevalence
                                     1998-1999          4.2%
                                          2001          2.8%
                                          2003          2.4%
Blood transmitted HIV cases
saved during the project period                         7200               cases
Average age of infection                                  18
Average age of death                                      28
Life expectancy                                           47
Extent of disability due to HIV                         0.32             from 0 to 1
HeaLY saved from deaths                                140400
HeaLY saved from disability                             23040
Total HeaLY saved (years)                              163440               years
Total HeaLY saved (days)                              59737320              days
Project investment on the national blood bank          1063630              US$
Ratio of HeaLY / project cost                           56.00            days / US$
Sensitivity analysis
                     Low case scenario (-25%)           42.00            days / US$
                    High case scenario (+25%)           70.00            days / US$



 Support to primary health care nationally

We used two types of economic analyses to evaluate the project support to primary health care. The first
one is to simply update the cost-benefit analysis conducted by the project appraisal team. In the PAD, the
project benefit was calculated as the monetary value generated from inpatient and outpatient visits to the
primary health facilities. We recalculated the cost-benefit analysis by using the actual inpatient and
outpatient visits during the project support period (1998--2001) instead of the projected data used by the
PAD team. We used the same assumption used by the project appraisal team, assuming that the project
support counts for 30 percent of the overall support to the country's primary health care. As a result, the
project generated a total of US$ 1.59 million, slightly over the project investment (US$ 1.58 million) on
primary health care.




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 3 -Table 3: Cost-benefit analysis of the project support to primary health care
                                                            Project     Project      Unit Cost*  Total value
             1998      1999       2000     2001    Total   Contribution output         (Nafka)      ($)

Inpatient  160077      80236     60460    73261   374034      0.3       112210            34      284,477

Outpatient 768265     783680     688698   853673 3094316      0.3       928295            19     1,307,457

                                                                       Total benefit             1,591,934


                                                                       Tota project investment   1,583,729


                                                                       Benefit / Cost ratio         1.01
*Unit Cost was estimated based on Health Care Service Charge 2004, Ministry of Health.


However, using the monetary value from inpatient and outpatient visits as the project benefit would
underestimate the contribution of the project, as the support to primary health care would also help deliver
basic health services and ultimately improve health outcomes such as reducing mortality. The ICR team
made an effort to quantify how much the child mortality reduction during the project period is a result of
the project support to the country's primary health care. First, the project support, together with the
country's own efforts and other donor assistance, have resulted in a significant improvement in health
service coverage. The 1995 and 2002 Demographic and Health Survey data indicate service coverage for
several key health interventions has greatly increased.

Annex 3 ­ Table 4 : Health coverage increase among several health interventions
1995-2002
Health service indicator                               1995          2002       % change
BCG coverage                                           61%           91%             49
DPT3                                                   49%           83%             69
Full immunization                                      41%           76%             85
ANC                                                    50%           71%             42
Assisted delivery                                      17%           20%             18
Currently use modern FP methods                         4%            8%            100
* Source: DHS 1995 and 2002 data



Then, the ICR team used the MBB tool, to convert the improvement in health service coverage into child
mortality reduction. It is estimated that the overall improvement in primary health care contributed about
33 percent to the infant mortality rate reduction and 32 percent to the under-five mortality rate reduction
during 1995 and 2002. If we assume the project support counts for 30 percent of the total support to the
country's primary health care, it would contribute to about 10 percent to the infant mortality reduction and
9 percent to the under-five mortality reduction. We further conducted a sensitivity analysis to add an
interval estimation. If the project only counted for 10 percent of the total support to primary health care,
this low case scenario estimates that 3 percent child mortality reduction can be attributed to the project. For
the high case scenario, if the project counted for 50 percent of the overall support, it helped reduce infant
mortality by 17 percent and under-five mortality by 16 percent. However, these results are preliminary
findings. The MBB model required an extensive data collecting effort, particularly on the epidemiological
data. Without a MBB exercise for the country, we had to make some assumptions and have sometimes used



                                                      - 29 -

regional average data instead of the country-specific data.




Annex 3 ­ Table 5: Contribution of the project support to child mortality reduction
                                                                     Project        Low           High
                                                 Total primary    contribution      case          case
                                                     health
                                              care contribution
                         1995           2002          (A)           30% of A      10% of A     50% of A
Infant mortality           72            48           33%             10%            3%           17%
U5MR                      136            93           32%             9%             3%           16%



The construction of the two referral hospitals

When the ICR mission took place, the two hospitals were still in their final phase of construction.
Therefore, there were no data available for evaluation. In the PAD, a cost-benefit analysis was conducted
to project the benefit of the two hospitals. The benefit was calculated based on the incomes from the
increased inpatient and outpatient visits. According to the view of the ICR team, the PAD analysis
significantly underestimated the project's contribution, since the hospitals were not intended just to generate
profit, but to contribute to improving the overall health of the country. However, due to lack of data, the
ICR team can only update the cost-benefit analysis in the PAD by using more up-to-date projection data.

The MOH has projected the inpatient and outpatient visits for the first two years after the two hospitals'
operation. Based on the MOH projection and also taking into account population growth and the discount
factor, we estimated that the hospitals would generate US$ 5.12 million, which is lower than the project's
investment. The ICR team suggests that a cost-effectiveness analysis should be conducted in a few years
after the hospitals become operational and when data become available.

Annex 3 ­ Table 6: Projected benefit for the hospital construction
                                                                                             Total      Total
                        Projected visits     Unit Value* Projected benefit (Nakfa) Duration benefit    benefit

                        Year 1        Year 2  (Nakfa)      Year 1      Year 2               (Nafka)     (US$)

Mendefera Hospital

     Outpatient visits  25,551        27,773      34       874,482    950,524        25    24,637,571 1,825,005

     Inpatient visits    6,082         6,611    103        624,512    678,817        25    17,594,939 1,303,329

Barentu Hospital

     Outpatient visits  19,982        20,851      34       683,905    713,640        25    18,524,896 1,372,215

     Inpatient visits    2,903         3,155    103        298,028    323,943        25     8,396,601   621,970

                                                                     Total Benefit         69,154,008 5,122,519
* Unit Value was estimated based on Health Care Services Charge 2004, Ministry of Health




                                                        - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/20/1995                3    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             HOUSEHOLD SURVEY
                                             EXPERT (1); HEALTH &
                                             HOSP. FINAN EXPERT (1)

              11/08/1995                4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             HOUSEHOLD SURVEY
                                             EXPERT (1); HEALTH &
                                             HOSP. FINAN EXPERT (1);
                                             EPIDEMIOLOGIST & HEALTH
                                             PLANNER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/07/1996                8    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROJECT OPERATIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PHC
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HOUSEHOLD SURVEY
                                             EXPERT (1); HEALTH &
                                             HOSP. FINAN EXPERT (1);
                                             EPIDEMIOLOGIST &
                                             HEALTH PLANNER
                                             (1);HLTH MNGT. SPE. (1)
                                             STD/HIV & PHC EXPERT
                                             (1)
              06/14/1997                2    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);

              08/12/1997                2    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

              10/30/1997                4    TEAM LEADER (1); LEGAL
                                             OFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)

 Supervision
              01/30/1998                2    FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMEN
                                             SPECIALIS (1)

              06/07/1998                1    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)

              10/03/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)



                                              - 31 -

                SR. FINAN. MGNT. SPE.(1);
                PROCUREMENT SPEC.(1)

05/27/1999    3 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                (1)

10/28/1999    1 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)        S    S

03/01/2000    1 TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S

09/30/2000    2 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                ECONOMIST (1)

03/10/2001    3 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1)

11/08/2001    4 TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);       S    S
                FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                (1); ARCHITECT (1)

04/27/2002    1 TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S

06/07/2002    4 TEAM LEADER (1); HR           S    S
                ECONOMICST;
                ENVIROMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); ARCHITECT
                (1)

11/22/2002    3 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                (1); SR. HD ECONOMIST (1);
                ARCHITECT, CONSULTANT
                (1)
11/22/2002    1 LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                (1)
02/27/2003    7 TEAM LEADER (1); HEALTH       S    S
                PLANNER, CONSULTANT (1);
                HEALTH FINANCING SPEC.,
                CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                ECONOMIST, M&E (1);
                AFRICA COORDINATOR,
                MTL (1) RRI COORDINATOR,
                CONSULTANT (1); M&E,
                CONSULTANT (1)

06/26/2003    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    S
                LEAD HEALTH SPECIALIST
                (1); SENIOR HD ECONOMIST
                (1); ARCHITECT



                - 32 -

                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST,
                                           CONSULTANT (1)

               02/06/2004              7   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           SENIOR HD ECONOMIST (1);
                                           HEALTH SPECIALIST (1); FM
                                           SPECIALIST (1) ARCHITECT,
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           COMMUNICATION SPEC.,
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL
                                           SPEC., CONSULTANT (1)

               06/27/2004              2   HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);             U    S
                                           CONSULTANT ARCHITECT
                                           (1)

 ICR
               12/02/2004             6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            HEALTH SPECIALISTS
                                            (2); SENIOR FM
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
                                            ARCHITECT,
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            HUMAN RESOURCE
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1); TASK
                                            TEAM ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           151.1                         433.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 43.4                         131.8
  Supervision                          124.2                         472.3
  ICR                                   18.3                           68.7
  Total                                337.0                        1106.7




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project Appraisal Document, Eritrea Health Project, World Bank, Report No.16501-ER,
     November 17, 1997
2.   The Health Sector in Eritrea, A World Bank Country Study, June 2004
3.   Project Appraisal Document, Eritrea HIV/AIDS, Malaria, STDs and TB Control Project,
     November 27, 2000
4.   Eritrea Poverty Assessment, World Bank, Report No.15595-ER, June 1996
5.   Improving Hospital Management Skills in Eritrea, Abt Associates Inc. November 2003
6.   Braam T,.The Impact of Health Sector Financing on Sexual and Reproductive Health in Africa,
     Sonke Consulting.
7.   Hyder A., Rotllant G., Morrow R.H. Measuring the burden of disease: Health Life-Years.
     American Journal of Public Health. Feb 1998; 88(2) Pg. 196
8.   Handbook on Economic Analysis on Investment Operations, Operational Core Services Network
     Learning and Leadership Center, January 1998
9.   Eritrea Health Project Government Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Health,
     Eritrea, November 2004
10.  Challenge for Health Care in Africa--Lesson from Eritrea's Successful Experience. Presentation
     by the Minister of Health of Eritrea, during his visit in the World Bank. January 2005
11.  Country Assistance Strategy of World Bank Group for the State of Eritrea, February 1996
12.  Interim Support Strategy for the State of Eritrea, World Bank, October 2000
13.  Demographic and Health Survey, Macro International, 1995 & 2002
14.  Annual Health Service Activity Report (January ­ December 2003). Health Management
     Information System (HMIS), Ministry of Health, 2004.
15.  Eritrea Roll Back Malaria Program Five Year Plan of Action for 2000-2004: Final Evaluation,
     Ministry of Health, 2004
16.  Graves, P.; Eritrea: Malaria Surveillance, Epidemic Preparadness, and Control Program
     Strengthening. Environmental Health Project. USAID. October 2004
17.  National Strategic Plan on HIV/AIDS/STI (2003-2007), Ministry of Health, 2003
18.  Malaria Control Strategic Plan (2005-2009), Ministry of Health, Eritrea, 2005
19.  Five Year Strategic Pan on Tuberculosis (2004-2009), Ministry of Health, Eritrea, 2004
20.  Eritrea Health Project-Project Status Reports (Project ID:P043124), 1997-2005, World Bank.
21.  Eritrea Health Project-Aide Memoire (Project ID:P043124), 1997-2005, World Bank.
22.  Eritrea: Health Profile 2000 and 2002, Ministry of Health.
23.  Primary Health Care Policy and Policy Guidelines, Ministry of Health, 1998
24.  HIV/AIDS: Global Estimates for Adults and Children. UNAIDS and WHO, 2004
25.  Implementation Completion Report: Eritrea Human Resource Development Project. World Bank,
     Report No. 28571-ER. June 2004.




                                                - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Cofinancer's Comment



                    FINDINGS OF THE FIELD VISIT TO MENDEFERA HOSPITAL

                              ROYAL NORWEGIAN EMBASSY IN ERITREA

                  (Sent to the ICR team by Arild Skåra, First Secretary, on March 4, 2005)


On the 18th Feb the Norwegian Embassy visited the new Mendefera Hospital together with representatives
of the World Bank in Asmara, and accompanied and guided by the Programme Management Unit of the
Ministry of Health. A visit to the old hospital was also made.

The WB had requested the Embassy to comment on the evaluation report made by the Government of
Eritrea before the WB will prepare its completion report of the programme. The programme, named Health
Project, was supposed to be finalised and closed by December 2004, but much delayed, the programme is
still not fully implemented. The main components of the programme are strengthening health care services
by constructing of referral hospitals in Mendefera and Barentu, as well as strengthening institutional
capacity. The National Blood Bank, Primary health care support, Support for the malaria control program
and Environmental sanitation are sub components to the programme.

The programme cost was estimated at USD 23,787,455 mill, out of which USD 18,235,700 mill was
financed through a loan from WB, the Government of Eritrea should contribute with USD 2,819,500 mill,
while Norway provided a grant of USD 2,732,256 mill, or NOK 25 mill. The actual cost of the programme
would have exceeded by far the original estimate. It has taken more than four years to build the Mendefera
hospital, and by now an optimistic date for moving the staff from the old to the new hospital would be
about May this year.

Much of the equipment, furniture, linen, etc are in place, but some still remain. Some medical gas and the
equipment for it is to be provided from Britain, and other equipment has been procured from Dubai, but is
stored there in waiting for a full shipload to be filled up. The arrival of these is not predictable, and the
opening of the hospital depends on these supplies.

The hospital is impressive, as seen from outside, from the interior and as designed and equipped. The
architectural design is beautiful, exterior as well as interior, and the medical and technical facilities were
well established. We do not know whether original design deviates from the present, but we were told that
frequent changes in design during implementation was one reason for delay of completion, which was now
two years behind schedule. Both change of design and the delays following thereof imply escalation of
costs. As this entirely fall on the expense of the Government, the donors may not have a reason to
complain, other than results having not been achieved in time.

However, austerity seems not to have been applied, which indirectly is a concern for the donors since there
is a limited resource base to provide support for much needed rehabilitation and development activities and
for emergency assistance. On the other hand, the hospital complex is fit for the future and has many useful
features like roof-water collection into cisterns for use to cleaning, outside greenery, emergency water
supply, etc. Provisions have also been made to enable renting out office space and conference facilities,



                                                       - 37 -

which will generate income for the hospital. Facilities are also available to accommodate students, nurses,
medical, etc, to have their practical internships there.

The hospital was designed for 200 beds, but facilities for 144 beds are constructed for the time being. The
old hospital has 120 beds and the staff required to service these. Once the new hospital can be taken in use,
the first phase will be implemented by moving over the staff and patients. The first phase will service 100
beds. Further expansion, phase no 2, will be implemented once additional staff is available. At present there
are seven medical doctors, five general practitioners and three specialists; there are 18 nurses, 20 health
assistants and 13 administrative staff. The ministry has committed itself to supply another `batch' of nurses
once the new hospitals opens. A major challenge seems to be sufficient and adequately trained personnel to
operate the new facilities, including the new technology provided.

The hospital includes an outpatient department with working facilities. Service departments like clinical
chemistry, microbiology and X-ray laboratories as well as emergency room and OTs are centrally placed in
order to serve both inpatients and outpatients.

The embassy got a good impression of the staff we met, operating the old hospital in a dedicated way with
very simple facilities. The new hospital looks beautiful, but it is not still in full operation. The embassy
looks forward to visit the place again, as well as the Barentu Hospital when possible, to see these in
operation.




                                                      - 38 -

- 39 -

