Document of
The International Development Association
Report No. 16501-ER
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 13.4 MILLION
TO ERITREA
FOR THE
HEALTH PROJECT
November 1 7, 1997
Human Development IV
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr *
US$ 1.00 =Birr 7.10
US$ 1.00  SDR 0.73
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS                  Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARI                   Acute Respiratory Infections
BoD                   Burden of Disease
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
FGM                   Female Genital Mutilation
GoE                   Government of Eritrea
HIV                   Human Immune-Deficiency Virus
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
IEC                   Information, Education and Communication
MoH                   Ministry of Health
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
PHARMECOR             Pharmaceutical and Medical Supplies Corporation
PHC                   Primary Health Care
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PMU                   Project Management Unit
SEMISH                State of Eritrea Management Information System for Health
SoE                   Statement of Expenditures
STD                   Sexually-Transmitted Disease
ZHO                   Zonal Health Office
Vice President     Callisto Madavo
Country Director    Oey Astra Mesook
Sector Manager     Arvil Van Adams (Acting)
Task Team Leader   S. Sundararajan
* The State of Eritrea is in the process of introducing its own currency called Nakfa. While it is expected
to be issued shortly, the Ethiopian Birr was still in use at the time of printing this document



ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Project Financing Data
Block 1:     Project Description
1.   Project development objectives
2.   Project components
3    Benefits and target population
4    Institutional and implementation arrangements
Block 2:  Project Rationale
5    CAS objective(s) supported by the project
6    Main sector issues and Government strategy
7    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategy choices
8    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
9    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
11.  Indicators of borrower commitment and ownership
12.  Value added of Bank support
Block 3:  Summary of Project Assessments
13   Economic Assessment
14   Financial Assessment
15   Technical Assessment
16   Institutional Assessment
17   Social Assessment
18   Environmental Aspect
19   Participatory Approach
20   Sustainability
21   Critical Risks
22   Possible Controversial Aspects
Block 4:  Main Credit Conditions
23   Board Effectiveness Conditions
24   Other
Block 5:  Compliance with Bank Policies
List of Annexes
Annex 1:       Performance Indicators and Project Design Summary
Annex 2:       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:       Estimated Project Cost
Annex 4:       Economic Analysis Summary
Annex 5:       Financial Summary/Fiscal Impact
Annex 6:       Procurement and Disbursement
Annex 7:       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Anrf x 8:      Documents in Project File
Ann c 9:       Status of Bank Group Operations in Eritrea
Amniux 10:     Eritrea at a Glance



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
Africa
Human Development IV
Project Appraisal Document
Eritrea
Health Project
Date: August 21, 1997                                                       [x ] Draft        [] Final
Task Manager: S. Sundararajan                             Country Manager: Oey Astra Meesook
Project ID: ER-PA-43124                                   Sector: Health
Lending Instrument: SIL                                  PTI:        [x] Yes             [] No
Project Financing Data                   []  Loan       [x ] Credit      [   Guarantee    [    Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 18.3 million
Proposed Terms:                            [ ]   Multicurrency      [ -] Single currency
Grace period (years): 10           []   Standard Variable    [l  Fixed             [3    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: N/A
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                 Local               Foreign            Total
Government                                                       2.8                   0                2.8
IDA                                                              7.3                  11.0             18.3
10.1                 11.0             21.1
Borrower: Government of Eritrea
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Health
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):        1998         1999        2000      2001       2002      2003
Annual     0.4          2.4         6.8       6.7        1.4       0.6
Cumulative     0.4         2.8          9.6       16.3      17.7      18.3
For Guarantees:                                     []    Partial Credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage: N/A
Project sponsor: N/A
Nature of underlying fnancing: N/A
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$) N/A
Final maturity N/A
Amortization profile N/A
Finarcing available without guarantee?: N/A [-]    Yes                           []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: N/A
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: N/A
Expected effectiveness date: March 31, 1998                           Closing date: June 30, 2003



Page 2                                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Eritrea Health Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objective (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):  The ultimate development objective, to
which the project would contribute, is to improve the health status of the people of Eritrea, thereby enhancing the quality of their
lives and their ability to participate in the country's socio-economic development. Progress in achieving this development
objective by the end of the five-year implementation period will be evaluated based on reductions in: (a) infant and under-five
mortality rates, maternal mortality ratio, and total fertility rate; (b) prevalence rates of malnutrition in women and in under-five
children, tuberculosis malaria, diarrhea, Acute Respiratory Infections (ARI), Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) and Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS); (c) prevalence of female genital mutilation practices. These indicators measure the
achievement of the development objective and not the project performance per se; many factors, including other activities of the
Government of Eritrea (GoE), private sector initiatives, people's behaviors and environmental determinants will influence the
achievement of the development objective and it is impossible to tease apart the exact extent to which the project will have made a
difference in this regard; separate indicators have been developed to measure the performance of the project specifically (see annex
1), but those cannot measure the achievement of the development objective.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project's contribution to the above development objective would be in the following terms: (a) supporting GoE's program of
improving health care services by expanding access to secondary health care in two of the six zones, by strengthening rural health
services nationally and developing national blood bank services; (b) building the national and zonal capacity for the effective and
efficient management of health operations both at the programmatic level and at the project level, with a special emphasis on
institutional capacity, human resource development and financial sustainability.
Component                            Cateeorv           Cost Incl. Contineencies (US$M)   % of
Total
1. Strengthening health care services        Physical, Institution-Building           13.1                 62
1 (a) Access to secondary care in 2 zones
Constructing, equipping and staffing two referral
hospitals in Barentu (Zoba Gash-Barka) and in
Mendefera (Zoba Debub)
1 (b) Strengthening health services nationally    Physical, Institution-building      4.7                  22
Supporting health centers and health stations, by
providing equipment, furniture, essential drugs and
vaccines, training providers, and improving their
management by better training, communication
and supervision, and developing the national blood
bank services
2. Capacity-Building                         Institution-building, Policy             2.1                  10
2 (a) Program Management and Sustainability
Improving sectoral planning and management, and
financial sustainability of the health programs,
through training, study tours, pilot interventions to
enhance decentralization of decision-making, and
to test local-level mechanisms to raise, retain and
utlizse additional revenues for health services.
2 (b) Project Management and Implementation   Institution-building, Project            1.2                  6
Building capacity for project management and  Management
implementation in the Ministry of Health (MoH)
and in the Zonal Health Offices (ZHO).
Total              21.1                 100



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 3
Entrea Health Project
3. Benefits and target population:
Social Benefits:
* Improved access to and quality of health care services, leading to improved health status and better quality of life for
individuals.
* Decrease in morbidity and mortality, resulting in generally healthier society.
* Greater equity of access to health service delivery. Project resources concentrated on underserved populations, including
women.
* Grass-roots health care systems could serve as a locus for social mobilization bringing people together around a common
purpose
Economic Benefits
* Increased productivity due to improved health, and decrease in person-days lost to sickness, enabling economic growth.
* Reduction in burden of disease could result in reduced need for resources spent on health programs.
* Expanding access to health care services reduces household's opportunity costs of seeking care
* Better management, improved training and supervision could yield efficiencies to the system, resulting in cost savings.
Other Benefits:
*  Hospitals and other health facilities would provide employment opportunities, especially for women.
*  Improved capacity to plan, manage, implement and monitor health program activities, at the central and zonal levels;
* Enhanced community participation in health services, leading to increased local ownership, utilization and accountability;
*  Improved capacity to analyze the fmancial and economic implications of sectoral policies and programs mobilize, allocate and
utilize resources more rationally.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: (Details are included in the PIP, currently under preparation; it will be
reviewed in draft form during Negotiations and finalized before credit effectiveness).
Implementation period: Five years
Executing agencies:   Ministry of Health (MoH), Zonal Health Offices (ZHO).
Project Implementation. Consistent with the ongoing decentralization in Eritrea, the project will be implemented largely by the
zonal authorities, with the central MoH providing policy guidelines and coordination support.
Project coordination at the central level: A Project Management Unit (PMU), will be established under the Minister of Health.
The PMU is responsible for overall management, coordination and supervision of project activities. PMU staff will include: a
Project Director, an Administrative/Finance Officer, a Procurement Officer, an Engineer and some support staff. The PMU will,
from time to time, hire short-term and long-term consultants, to assist the Ministry of Health. The PMU will collaborate with
relevant departments of MoH, the ZHOs, PHARMECOR, and the Ministries of Local Government, Works, Finance, and others as
may be necessary.
Project oversight (policy guidance) at the central level: This will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, under the
leadership of the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health will coordinate with PHARMECOR, representatives from the
Ministries of Finance and Works, and zonal authorities including zonal medical officers.
Project coordination at the zonal level: The ZHOs in all six zones, through their respective zonal medical officers, will be
involved in project implementation, particularly in activities aimed at strengthening rural health services. This involvement will be
in terms of identification of facilities which need specific inputs, participation in training programs, implementation of Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) activities, funtional aspects of the health management information systems and the
distribution of medical equipment and supplies. In the two zones where the project will construct new referral hospitals, the ZHO
will be fully involved in decisions concerning the design and construction of the buildings, specification of equipment and furniture
requirements, and local oversight of day-to-day activities. Once the hospitals are constructed, the ZHOs will take over their
staffing and management.
Project oversight (policy guidance) at the zonal level: The existing zonal coordination mechanisms under the leadership of the
Zonal Governors will be used and no new committees or organizational set-ups are necessary for this purpose.



Page 4                                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Eritrea Health Project
Accounting,financial reporting and auditing arrangements: Implementation arrangements and processes are outlined in the PIP,
prepared by the Government of Eritrea, in consultation with the World Bank. The PMU, in collaboration with MoH's
Administration Division, will be responsible for financial management, accounting, reporting, and auditing following procedures
acceptable to IDA. Recognizing capacity constraints in this area, the project provides for an administrative and finance officer in
the PMU; (s)he will be given the necessary training in areas of accounting, auditing and other financial procedures as they apply to
IDA-fmanced projects. The project will be audited annually, following international auditing standards, by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. Annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each calendar year. The project
special account will be managed by the PMU, with signatories designted by the Minister of Finance.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system is being developed at two levels - sector
level and project level. The information unit of MoH, which runs the State of Eritrea Management Information System for Health
(SEMISH), will be responsible for collecting data at the sector level; the PMU will be responsible for collecting data at the project
level and for consolidating sectoral data from SEMISH and preparing periodic reports for review by the MOH and IDA. The
project's M&E system is an integral part of the implementation at all levels and will be used to make mid-course corrections to the
manner in which activities are carried out and to encourage innovation, team building, and local ownership of the project.
Performance at all levels, in terms of project inputs (resource allocation and use), process, outputs and outcomes will be monitored.
Project M&E will be a shared responsibility of the PMU, relevant departments of MoH, and ZHOs. M&E will be facilitated by the
project's logical framework (Annex 1) that elaborates the relevant indicators. The project 's monitoring will be carried out through
the following activities: (a) day-to-day supervision by the PMU and ZHOs; (b) quarterly review meetings of the MOH; (c) semi-
annual joint GoE-IDA review based on progress reports to be prepared by the PMU each March and September - with alternating
missions reviewing the whole sector. Evaluation will be conducted based on: (a) baseline surveys (a household health expenditure
and utilization survey has already been carried out in the two zones where hospitals are to be constructed and will be replicated in
the other four zones as well); (b) joint mid-term review of the project by GoE and IDA no later than 33 months after credit
effectiveness; and (c) final evaluation on completion. The project Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared
within six months of the Credit closing.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project   CAS: Report No. 15324-ER, Board Date February 5,1996
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Eritrea focuses on poverty alleviation through sustained economic growth and greater
investments in long-term human capital development. The proposed operation supports this strategy by improving the health status
of Eritrea's population, thereby enhancing their well-being, quality of life and their contribution to socio-economic development.
The project also seeks to build local capacity for sustainable financing and effective management of health operations, essential for
ensuring the quality of and access to health care services, in turn a pre-requisite for reducing Eritrea's burden of disease.
6. Main sectoral issues and Government strategy:
The main health problems faced by Eritreans are amenable to primary health care interventions, e.g., maternal health problems,
childhood diarrhea, ARI, tuberculosis and malaria. These diseases are estimated to comprise 62 percent of the premature death
estimate of the burden of disease (BOD) with other immunizable childhood diseases, nutritional problems, injury and trauma, and
STDs/HIV/AIDS accounting for a large share of the rest. Life expectancy at birth is around 46 years. Infant mortality rate is 135
per 1,000 live births, while under-five child mortality is estimated to be 203 per 1,000 live births. Maternal mortality ratio is
estimated at around 700 per 100,000 live births, reaching 1,000 in some zones. These data point to an extremely poor health status.
The central issues that need to be addressed are: (i) lack of physical and financial access to health services of acceptable quality to
the people of Eritrea, particularly to the poor and to those living in remote rural areas; (ii) weak institutional capacity at the national
and zonal levels to plan and implement an effective health services program and to analyze economic and financial aspects relevant
to the sector; (iii) environmental conditions that adversely affect health outcomes and (iv) behavioral impediments to health.
Government Strategy: The ultimate goal of GoE's national health policy is to improve the health status and well-being of its
population, which is broken down into two broad objectives: (i) to reduce the BoD, and (ii) to empower the public via education to
engage in good health practices. MoH has adopted Primary Health Care (PHC) as the principal strategy toward the attainment of
these objectives. The sector policy focuses on improvements in: (a) health policy development, (b) health care infrastructure
development, organization and management; (c) human resource development to ensure appropriate skill-mix; (d) mobilization of
resources from public and private sources; and (e) legislative support.
GoE's strategic plan also emphasizes broad national goals of equity, service accessibility, affordability, local participation,
intersectoral collaboration, and decentralization of decision-making authority. GoE is in the process of devolving authority and
responsibility for program implementation to the six zones. Although this process is still evolving, MoH, like other line ministries,
is expected to provide technical oversight and policy guidance to the programs undertaken by the zones. Recognizing the
importance of sustaining the activities of the health sector at all levels, a new cost-sharing policy has been introduced recently.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 5
Eritrea Health Project
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In support of Eritrea's national health policy, the project seeks to address two of the four issues listed in section 6 in a major way,
i.e., the need to ensure adequate access to health services of acceptable quality and the need to build institutional capacity;
additionally, the project would make a minor contribution to GoE's efforts to address one other issue, i.e., need to effect a
behavioral change in the population; this would be done as an integral part of the service delivery activities, rather than as a
separate IEC component.
Strategic choices: The principal strategic choice for this project is to support those parts of the services which currently do not
have sufficient resources, i.e., ensuring adequate referral services and selective financing of support to PHC facilities. Following
this strategy, the project studied the whole sector and its various sources of financing and identified the specific investment gaps in
the sector; based on such a determination, it proposes to construct, equip and staff new referral hospitals in two zones, develop
national blood bank services and provide equipment, funmiture, training and information support to about 30 rural health facilities.
The absence of adequate referral services in the six zones results in poor quality care, as also a disproportionate burden on the
secondary care facilities that exist in the capital city of Asmara. To improve the delivery of basic health care, under-equipped
primary health facilities would be provided the necessary inputs to render them fully operational. Thus, the approach is holistic and
focused at the same time.
The second strategic choice is to strengthen institutional capacity in parallel with the activities aimed at expanding service delivery.
The basis for this approach is that the country is rebuilding itself after 30 years of civil war in which most of its systems and
facilities have been destroyed. The urgent need for rehabilitation of health facilities and building the basic infrastructure has to be
fulfilled even as the human resource development and capacity-building activities are under way.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
SuDDort to Secondary Care vs.PHC.
Alternative reiected: Exclusive fmancing of hosnital construction. This proposal was rejected because referral hospitals constructed
without adequate primary care facilities are likely to yield suboptimal benefits. Such hospitals usually end up providing basic care
at a much higher cost than necessary, because people needing such care do not have primary facilities from which to obtain it. The
justification of secondary hospitals lies in the fact that they are a logical part of a comprehensive health service; by themselves,
their contribution to the reduction of burden of disease is minimal and cost-ineffective.
Alternative reiected: Exclusive support to primarv care facilities. The most basic health care facilities in the rural areas of Eritrea
cannot provide quality services effectively without the necessary referral backup. Moreover, GoE has secured most of the funding
needed for the PHC services from other donors and its own resources. Thus providing major finances for PHC under this project,
to the exclusion of secondary care would mean both a duplication of what is already funded and neglect of an essential part that is
not.
Alternative selected: A balanced determination of investment gat and fmancing of identified needs. Based on what facilities exist
throughout the country, it was determined that the by constructing, equipping and staffing two zonal referral hospitals, a critical
need in terms of the referral system would be fulfilled. A review of resource availability for the PHC facilities from other sources
led to the determination of which ones needed equipment, furniture and other support. Similarly, since the country lacked a blood
bank service, and the epidemiological need was demonstrated by the fact that road traffic accidents were on the increase and
HIV/AIDS is an emerging problem, the project decided to finance the development of this essential service.
Sector Investmentment Program (SIP) Approach vs a focused intervention.
While the project took a global view of the sector's needs, other international partners were consulted to determine their respective
contributions to the sector and ensure complementarity, it was decided that Eritrea is not ready for a full-fledged SIP at this time.
The country is young and under reconstruction after the liberation, international technical assistance needs are considerable, the
project is the first operation assisted by the Bank and the donor coordination mechanisms are not yet in place to enable a SIP. It is
hoped that this project would lead to a larger role for Bank assistance to the sector, and perhaps once the basic systems are in place
and MoH develops a better capacity to plan and manage a broader sector program, a SIP might be considered. However, the
specific parts of the sector which will be fnanced under the project have been selected by a careful and comprehensive
consideration of the sectoral needs - thus maintaining the one critical aspect of SIPs that is feasible in the Eritrean context. Thus,
the alternative selected is a focused operation in the larger context of the sector, with simultaneous capacity-building components.



Page 6                                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Eritrea Health Project
EguiDpin2' and furnishinsR of health centers and health stations.
Alternatives reiected: Establishment of an oven-ended Equipment Fund. At the early stages of project preparation, the specific
needs of various health facilities had not been determined and therefore, this idea was proposed. While an open-ended fund would
lend flexibility in terms of purchasing equipment for facilities on an as-requested basis, the idea was subsequently rejected for the
following reasons: the price of flexibility would have been lack of prior procurement planning thus forcing the project to plan and
procure equipment and furniture on an adhoc basis; this would have meant multiple procurement lags and loss of economies of
scale; the development of a Fund would also have meant some time delays and administrative overhead; as the project preparation
progressed, a clearer idea emerged on the specific equipment needs of various facilities and much of the need that existed at the
early stages of preparation had been met from other sources.
Alternative selected. Procurement of equipment and furniture for pre-identified facilities based on standard equipment and
fturniture lists, which GoE already uses for the country's health centers and health stations.
Water supplv and electric power for health centers and health stations.
Alternative reiected: Financing of water supplv and solar power to rural facilities under the vroiect. This would have made the
project design significantly more complex, and delayed project preparation unduly, since the need was identified at late stages and
the necessary technical analyses for such a component had been done. The terrain, climatic conditions and sources of water vary
vastly among the different parts of Eritrea and extensive feasibility studies would be required to develop tailor-made solutions for
each facility. Moreover, efforts to provide rural water supply and electric power are being undertaken by other projects and
programs and the cost-effectiveness of providing these facilities independently for scattered health facilities is not clear.
Alternative selected: Include a comprehensive study of adequacv of PHC services. Recognizing the essential nature of water
supply and electricity in health services delivery, and considering other aspects that may also be lacking in remote rural facilities in
a young country where such facilities are being newly developed, a comprhensive in-depth study of all the rural health facilities
would be undertaken during the first two years of the project to assess the quality and adequacy of their services. The study will
not be limited to water supply and electricity. The findings of the study would be considered by the Project during the Mid-Term
Review and fnancing options would be explored at that stage based on determined needs.
' -----!----------''-----------------__---------------_____  _____ _______ ____ __________  _ _   ____
-   9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue                           Project                Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed project
only)
IP                   D
Bank-Financed
Ongoing.                      Need for basic rural infrastructure and  Eritrea Community    S                      S
service provision (including health).  Development Fund,
Cr. 2823-ER, US$49.7
million
Other development agencies
Italian Cooperation/WHO       Weak rural health services.            Public Health and      N/A                N/A
Ongoing                                                              Rehabilitation
Program for Eritrea
(PHARPE);
US$12.2M
USAID                         Child survival                         BASICS                 N/A                 N/A
Family planning service exapnsion      SEATS, ESMG
Micronutrient deficiencies             OMNI, grant to
UNICEF



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 7
Eritrea Health Project
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project will be the first IDA-financed health operation in Eritrea. The portfolio in Eritrea is small, consisting of two
projects under implementation in other sectors. Therefore, the following lessons are drawn from the collective international
experience of health sector projects elsewhere.
Lesson 1:      Total commitment and ownership on the part of the borrower is a pre-requisite for project success and the
likelihood of sustainability and the full participation of key stakeholders from early stages of preparation enhances ownership. This
project took considerable amount of time ensuring that its design and content are fully in conformity with the borrower's
preferences and technically sound. Implementation is planned in a manner that involves the zones and communities at every stage.
Lesson 2:      Quality of project design at entry is a key determinant of satisfactory performance during implementation. This
project had the benefit of considerable technical assistance from international experts in health management, health economics,
architectural design, medical equipment specialists, public health specialists and those experienced in Bank operations through all
stages of preparation.
Lesson 3:      A Project Implementation Plan (PIP) articulating a clear plan of action, management arragements, monitoring
mechanisms, procurement plan, and financial aspects is crucial to laying the foundation for timely execution of project activities.
GoE has prepared a draft PIP, which is to be discussed with IDA and finalized before credit effectiveness.
Lesson 4:      Effective monitoring and evaluation systems are critical to the success of any project. The proposed project
incorporates a detailed monitoring system, based on indicators identified through consultations among all parties, to measure
inputs, process, outputs and outcomes. The "logical framework" or "log-frame" has been used to develop the indicators; baseline
data have been gathred for most of the indicators through a household health expenditure and utilization survey and other data are
available from the Demographic and Health Survey, which the Government carried out with the support of USAID.
1i. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project is part of GoE's own plans and strategies as reflected in its policy and strategy documents, as also in the Zonal Health
Action Plans of the respective zones. GoE considers the promotion of sustainable development of the health sector as central to the
country's development and this project as an important part of the sector. The commitment and interest in the project goes beyond
the MoH; the Ministries of Finance, Works, and Local Government are all keen on this project as evidenced during discussions
with various officials of GoE. The Minister of Finance has never failed to enquire about the status of this project's preparation on
every occasion he has had in his macro-economic dialogue with the Bank. Such widespread inter-sectoral commitment is due to
the genuine realization that this project will make a significant contribution to the country which is enthusiastically rebuilding after
its recent independence.
More importantly, the commitment and ownership are even stronger at the zonal level, where health officials are very involved in
the technical design and planning of the two referral hospitals and in ensuring that adequate support is procured for the primary
health care facilities. The beneficiary communities in the rural areas of Eritrea are also keenly awaiting the project's
implementation, as it promises to address one of their important felt needs, i.e., health services.
MoH established a project preparation committee with representation from all the Ministry's departments and division, the zonal
offices, and other government institutions to be involved in project implementation. It was this committee which finalized the
project design, building on the technical assistance provided by the international experts.
12. Value added of Bank support:
While there are several international agencies supporting the health sector in Eritrea, the Bank support to the sector has the
following unique benefits: (i) the Bank puts its support to the sector in the overall macro-economic context and the design of the
project is an integral part of its Country Assistance Strategy; (ii) similarly, the project has been developed with the broader
perspective of the sectoral needs, so that investments in the project make optimal contributions to the sector as a whole; (iii) the
Bank brings international experience and expertise to bear on the project's development to make sure that its technical quality is the
best possible; (iv) procurement under the Bank guidelines seeks to ensure the widest possible competition, offering the borrower
maximum choice and value for money; (v) with its well-known comparative advantage in the field of development economics, the
Bank places a strong emphasis on economic analysis and the sustainability of project benefits well beyond its life; and (vi) by
mobilizing additional resources, the Bank enhances the value of its own support, e.g., the Japanese PHRD Grant was used to
conduct the baseline survey on Household Health Expenditures and Utilization and the Swedish Trust Funds were used to provide
other technical assistance.



Page 8                                                                                   Project Appraisal Document
Eritrea Health Project
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment []   Cost-Benefit Analysis   []   Cost Effectiveness Analysis:  [X] Other [Specify]
(see Annex 4):
Methodological constraints and lack of reliable data make cost-benefit or even probably cost-effectiveness analysis for a project of
this nature prblematic; the project includes a complex set of activities which contribute to a variety of benefits making any one-to-
one correspondence between a specific input and specific benefit an oversimplification; moreover, health outcomes are a result of
other factors outside of the project, rendering any attribution of health impact exclusively to the project circumspect; health benefits
from specific interventions are difficult to quantify even in terms of life-years gained, much less in monetary terms and costs data
are not available in a valid and precise manner. Typically, the only cost data available are public expenditures on health, which are
not broken down by specific interventions or by disease. Thus, it is not possible to calculate costs of or benefits from a particular
curative or preventive measure with any precision. However, based on assumptions and estimations, a burden-of-disease and cost-
effectiveness study was carried out for Eritrea. Building on the findings of this study and using the public financing data available,
a combination of cost-effectiveness analysis, expenditure analysis and financial analysis was carried out. Details of these analysis
are to be found in annex 4. These analyses point to a possible rate of return of 20% to 40%
Fiscal impact: Assuming various rates of utilization of the new services that would be provided as a result of the project, Annex 4
suggests that the incremental fiscal burden on MoH attributable to the project is likely to be 7-10 million birr (US$1-1.5 million) per
annum. This does not represent an unrealistic burden, given the past trends in budgetary increases for the sector. Moreover, MoH
has already embarked on cost-recovery at health facilities, which could result in substantial reductions in the fiscal burden.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)
The total estimated project costs are estimated at US$21.1 million, out of which US$18.3 million (86%) will be financed by IDA
and the remainder would be financed by the Government. Project costs, unlike benefits, are not expected to extend beyond the life
of the project. However, the facilities that would be constructed under the project and the services provided by other facilities which
the project would support, would entail recurrent costs for maintenance, upkeep and operational costs. These costs will vary
depending on the utilization of services, but range from 10 to 20 million Ethiopian Birr (approximate equivalent of US$3 million)
per annum. While this amount is considerable from the perspective of the current budget of the Ministry of Health, which is 110
million Ethiopian birr, it is not unreasonably high, considering the following factors: (a) Eritrea being a young country, is still in the
process of developing its public expenditure program; the health budget has been steadily increasing from a mere 11 million birr in
1992 by nearly ten-fold in five years; (b) still the health expenditure amounts to a mere US$4.4 per capita, suggesting the need for
much greater increase in the coming years, if the generally recommended essential package of services should be made available to
all Eritreans; (c) the Government has already embarked on a cost-sharing policy, collecting nominal amounts of user fees at the
points of service delivery, particularly for curative care services; though this policy is at a pilot stage and needs to be evaluated and
perhaps redesigned to include local retention of fees and other features to ensure that equity of access does not suffer, annex 4
estimates that a well-designed cost-sharing system could result in more than 50% of the incremental recurrent costs being recouped.
15. Technical Assessment:
The project has been developed on sound technical grounds. Set in the broader context of the country's macro-economic situation
and the health sector's needs, and following established public health principles, the project seeks to make vital contributions to the
health and welfare of Eritrean using PHC as the health sector's principal strategy. Recognizing the critical place of effective referral
systems in PHC, the project supports the construction, staffing and equipping of two referral hospitals, while simultaneously
strengthening the PHC facilities at more peripheral levels. Taking account of the epidemiological need to address the increasing
problem of road traffic accidents and the emerging concern of HIV/AIDS, the project includes the development of a national blood
bank service. Given the need to enhance local capacity to plan and execute a national health program in a newly independent
country, the project rightly emphasizes institutional capacity-building and provides for strong support in the areas of management
and health financing. Bearing in mind the absolute importance of ensuring long-term sustainability of the project's benefits, the
project has placed due emphasis on local ownership and commitment, private resource mobilization, e.g., cost-sharing mechanisms -
within constraints of poverty in the beneficiary communities, and policy dialogue at the central and zonal levels to ensure adequate
public resource allocation. Since any project's success is determined centrally by good management and effective monitoring and
evaluation, sufficient attention has been paid to these aspects; human resources needed to ensure successful health services delivery
- including the staff needed to run the two hospitals - and management information systems, baseline surveys, mid-term and final
evaluations have been stressed adequately. Technical support has been amply provided in terms of developing the architectural
aspects and equipment needs of the hospitals, developing practical means of improving management and sustainability



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 9
Entrea Health Project
16. Institutional Assessment:
GoE is acutely aware of the need to develop human resources for the sector rapidly, in order to sustain a viable health program. As
in other sectors, the country has a serious shortage of skilled personnel in view of the 30-year long strife. But there are plans
already in place to deal with the problem on two fronts: (a) meeting the immediate needs by importing expatriate experts from
regional developing countries so as to keep the costs down as well as attracting Eritreans living abroad to return home by offering
better benefit packages; and (b) simultaneously developing a solid human resources base within the country by training Eritreans
locally and abroad on a priority basis. The country has schools that train nurses, health assistants and other health professionals but
has no in-country capacity to train physicians. For the present there is no plan to establish a medical school.
a. Executing agencies: MoH is currently in the process of building the required institutional capacity to plan, develop and
implement the national health program effectively. In view of the GoE's policy of decentralized management, capacity-building
measures are also being undertaken in the six zones of the country. The Ministry of Works which is to oversee the civil works
activities under the project and PHARMECOR which would be responsible for procurement of medical equipment appear to have
the necessary institutional capacity and experience in performing such tasks, provided they are performed through private
contractors and with the help of some technical assistance. The project includes measures to strengthen the capacity of MoH at the
central and zonal levels in the areas of planning, health financing and management, through training, and technical assistance,
b. Project management: Given MoH's limited experience in implementing donor-financed projects, the project provides: (a) a
PMU in the Office of the Minister of Health; (b) a financial and accounting system acceptable to IDA; and (c) delegation of
procurement responsibilities to the Ministry of Works (for civil works) and to PHARMECOR (for medical equipment, drugs and
vaccines).
17. Social Assessment:
The project is not likely to lead to any adverse social effects; on the contrary, it is expected to lead to social benefits (see section 3 of
Block 1). Project interventions support the extension and expansion of badly needed basic health care services to underserved and
remote populations in Eritrea witn poor social indicators. GoE has confirmed that the sites chosen for the two hospitals proposed
under the project do not belong to any individuals or groups, nor are they being used by anyone in an economically gainful manner.
There are no issues of resettlement or compensation arising from the constructions in question.
18. Environmental Assessment:
The project is classified as a "category B" project as there are environmental concerns associated with waste disposal (i.e., water,
human, fecal discharge) from the new referral hospitals to constructed. The Master Plan and the architectural design for the new
hospitals will address issues relating to the proper management and treatment of waste disposal. Measures to mitigate the negative
impact on the environment include: (a) separating hospital wastes into ordinary wastes and hazardous wastes; (b) providing for safe
disposal of ordinary wastes by municipalities and for incinerating hazardous wastes within the hospital compound; and (c) ensuring
that the hospitals are adequately equipped to deal with all the wastes independently of the capacity that may exist in the
municipality.
19. Participatory Approach:                   Identification/Preparati  Implementation        Operation
on
Beneficiaries/community groups CON and COL        COL               COL
Intermediary NGOs n/a                  n/a               n/a
Academic institutions CON                COL               COL
Local government CON and COL          COL               COL
Other donors IS and CON           IS and CON        IS and CON
Other government institutions CON and COL       COL               COL
Note: IS = information sharing, CON = consultation, and COL = collaboration
Stakeholder consultations have been conducted to discuss how local governance and ownership of the two new referral hospitals
might be developed in concert with the ongoing decentralization process in Eritrea. They have been involved in the development of
the formal feasibility studies for the design of the two facilities. They will also participate in preparing annual work plans and
budgets, and participate in annual reviews. All project stakeholders will be involved in implementation and reviews.



Page 10                                                                                  Project Appraisal Document
Eritrea Health Project
20. Sustainability:
The proposed project is designed to promote long-term sustainability of a national health program and its benefits. To this end, the
following features have been incorporated in project design: (a) capacity building at all operational levels of the MoH and the zones
(b) bringing health care financing issues to the forefront and providing technical assistance to analyze the financial and economic
consequences of the project, including long-term recurrent cost implications; (c) mobilizing additional resources through the
development of partnerships in health care financing; (d) developing efficient systems at the zonal level to manage resources better;
(e) promoting active local participation in health services delivery, thus promoting local ownership of health outcomes; (f)
supporting community-based operations research to strengthen rural health services delivery; and (g) carrying out pilot initiatives
such as cost sharing schemes and health insurance schemes.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                    Risk Rating                  Risk Minimization Measure
Poor utilization of health services      Moderate      Efforts to ensure quality of services, and their physical and
financial accessibility to the target population and to build
awareness about the availability of services and about healthy
behaviors.
Health facilities and related equipment not  Moderate  Development of a detailed maintenance plan for the facilities and
adequately maintained.                                 equipment with the allocation of adequate resources.
Non-service factors, i.e., poor environmental   Moderate  Policy dialogue during annual reviews to include full consideration
conditions or behavioral determinants of               of the whole sector and relevant inter-sectoral issues. Consultation
health are not addressed adequately.                   with other actors to make sure that activities aimed at addressing
environmental and behavioral aspects are being implemented well.
Project components to outputs
Weak capacity, poor management, delays in    Moderate  Capacity-building measures, technical assistance, training
implementation.                                       programs, strong and regular supervision, effective monitoring
mechanisms.
Low levels of staff motivation and weak  Low           Development of appropriate incentive mechanisms and supportive
accountability impeding provision of intended         supervision to ensure accountability.
services at high levels of quality.
Planned financial resources are not made  Low         Annual reviews to deal with resource allocation issues and fund-
available promptly.                                   flow problems on a regular basis.
Medical equipment and supplies are not   Low          Performance guarantees to be built into the procurement contracts.
appropriate to the local conditions, not
provided in a timely manner.
Quality of technical assistance is poor.  Low         International competitive selection of consultants.
Training programs are not appropriate and are  Low    Adequate technical assistance to be provided to ensure the training
ineffective.                                          programs meet the needs.
Overall project risk rating
The overall risk that the project could fail to    Moderate  Project risks would be mitigated by the regular dialogue between
achieve its development outcome is rated as           the government and IDA on both macro and sectoral framework of
moderate.                                             the project. Special and complementary efforts being made in the
areas of project planning, monitoring, supervision and evaluation at
the central and zonal levels will be supported by the Project
Management Unit at the central level, and the Zonal Health Offices
at the zonal level.
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:   None



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 11
Entrea Health Project
Block 4: Main Credit Conditions
23. Negotiations and Effectiveness Conditions.
As conditions of negotiations, the Government:
(a) provided a draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP); and
(b) ensured that key PMU staff were appointed.
As special conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government would:
(a) adopt a Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance acceptable to IDA; and
(b) establish a financial management system acceptable to IDA.
24. Other:
At negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a) The Project shall be implemented in accordance with the PIP, as may be amended from time to time with the consent of IDA;
Q,) To ensure effective management and implementation of the project, GoE would establish and maintain, with terms of reference
(ToR) acceptable to IDA, a PMU which shall be adequately and appropriately staffed and shall report to the Ministery of Health;
(c) GoE will maintain appropriate information systems necessary to enable the monitoring of project implementation and the
evaluation of the achievement of development objectives, based on the indicators listed in annex I (Schedule 6 of DCA);
(d) GoE will conduct a Project Launch Workshop within two months of the Credit's effectiveness to facilitate the project staff's
understanding of the project and familiarize them with Bank procedures and to instil a quality consciousness in them;
(e) GoE will furnish to IDA, semi-annual progress reports on project implementation before February 28 and August 31 of each
year; the progress report to be furnished immediately prior to the mid-term review shall also integrate progress achieved during the
preceding years starting from the Effective Date, and a consideration of the continued validity of the Project objectives, strategies
and design in relation to the health Program of Eritrea;
(f) The MOH will conduct four quarterly reviews of the project progress, two of which shall be carried out jointly with IDA, in
accordance with ToR acceptable to IDA; the reviews shall include a consideration of the Project progress and issues affecting the
achievement of its development objectives; and the PMU shall carry out the recommendations arising from the reviews;
(g) In lieu of one of the quarterly reviews, GoE shall conduct a mid-term review of the project not later than September 30, 2000
jointly with IDA, as per mutually acceptable ToR; promptly after the mid-term review, GoE will implement its recommendations;
(h) At the mid-term review and at project completion, GoE shall, jointly with IDA, carry out Program performance review using
indicators identified in annex I of this report, based on data to be made available by GoE to IDA at these times and at the baseline;
(i) Financial covenants (Article IV of the DCA) would be complied with; these include, inter alia: an audit by independent and
qualified auditors records and accounts for each calendar year with a separate opinion on SoEs, in accordance with international
auditing standards and procedures, to be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each year.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
For the Team
(/LC   i   696t  /lLLDGPAX~~46i.(u~
n da   jan                       Arvil Van Adams                        O    Astra Meesook
Task Team Leader                      Acting Sector Manager                  Country Director for Eritrea



I



Annex 1
ERITREA HEALTH PROJECT
Performance Indicators and Project Design Summary
The table on the following page shows the project design summary in the logical framework (log-
frame) format. The indicators shown therein are proposed to be used by project managers and
implementers at various levels for monitoring, i.e., by the Bank, by the Ministry of Health, by the
Project Management Unit or by the Zonal Health Offices. Since the level of detail required for day-
to-day monitoring at the implementation levels would be much greater than that required by the
Bank or by the MoH, 14 key performance indicators have been identified as the subset to be used by
the Bank and by the MoH in their joint reviews. These fall broadly into two groups:
1. Achievement of development objectives (to be reviewed at least every 3 years at the
national and zonal levels):
(a) Infant Mortality Rate;
(b) Under-five Mortality Rate;
(c) Maternal Mortality Ratio;
(d) Total Fertility Rate;
(e) Prevalence of malnutrition in children under five and women;
(f) Prevalence of tuberculosis, malaria, diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, sexually transmitted
diseases and acquired immune-deficiency syndromw (AIDS);
(g) % publicly provided health services financed by local and community resources
2. Implementation Progress (to be monitored every 6 months):
(a) % disbursement actual /planned;
(b) % Civil works completed / planned;
(c) % equipment procured/planned;
(d) % personnel recrruitedlplanned;
(e) % training completed/planned;
(f) % rural health facilities fully equipped and furnished;
(g) Bed-occupancy ratios in hospitals and health centers by zone.
The other indicators shown in the table will only be used for detailed day-to-day monitoring by the
Project Management Unit or the Zonal Health Offices, but if their reviews show a significant finding
they would include it in their reports to the Ministry of Health for its quarterly reviews. Similarly,
while the Bank-MoH joint reviews would limit themselves to the selective set of key indicators
shown above, the Project Management Unit may choose to present its findings on other indicators if
they are of significance in a particular period under review.



Annex 1, Page 2
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions
CAS Objective                                                                        (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Assist in long-term human   Quality of life indicators.  Poverty Assessments
capital development                                      Living Standards
Measurement Surveys
Project Development                                                                  (Development Objectives
Objectives (Sector Impact)    Reductions in:             Sources:                    to CAS Objective)
Improve the health status of the  Infant Mortality Rate  Surveys (Demographic &
people of Eritrea, thereby                               Health Survey, Household    Effective implementation
enhancing their quality of life   Under-five mortality rate  Health Examination Survey)    of other developmental
and their contribution to socio-                                                     efforts, e.g., female
economic development        Maternal Mortality Ratio     Sample Vital Statistics System   education, improvement
(to be established)         of women's status,
Total Fertility Rate                                    infrastructure
Mechanism:                  development and
Prevalence of malnutrition in    Review of indicators at  appropriate macro-
women and under-5 children    baseline, mid-term and final    economic policies.
evaluation.
Prevalence of TB, malaria,
ARI, diarrhea, STD and AIDS
Prevalence of FGM practices
Project Outcomes            % of care-seeking population    Sources                  (Outcomes to
Improved access to PHC      using modern health care     Household surveys           Development Objective)
Services, including referral  services (for each level of
services                    facility, by gender, area of  Facility statistics through  High levels of utilization
residence)                  SEMISH.                      of services provided.
% of pregnancies with at least   Mechanisms:             Effective complementarity
3 ANC visits                Biannual progress reports;   between health services
and improved health
Median distance to PHC      Reviews by MoH and by IDA    behaviors and better
Missions.                   environmental conditions.
Improved quality of services at
affordable costs            Bed-occupancy ratios (by type   Feedback to service-providers   Effective cooperation
of facility, gender)        and field-level managers.    between the public and
private sectors of the
% of patients treated with                               health services.
positive outcomes (cured or
improved) - by type of facility,
gender, diagnosis
Increased sustainability of
health program.             % of public services financed
from local sources



Annex 1, Page 3
Project Outputs             Indicators                   Sources:                    Assumptions
(Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. Fully functioning referral    (a) % of construction  GoE's semi-annual progress
hospitals in Barentu and    completed (Barentu and       reports.                    Appropriate maintenance
Mendefera                   Mendefera)                                               of facilities and
SEMISH reports.             equipment.
2. Fully functioning national   (b) % of planned equipment    Mechanisms:            Adequate incentive
blood bank system           and blood bank supplies                                  systems instituted to
procured                    Quarterly reviews by the     ensure that staff are
Ministry of Health          motivated enough to
3. Fully functioning central    (c) % of construction                                provide intended services
blood bank                  completed (Asmara)           Semi-annual reviews by IDA    at high levels of quality
missions.                   and to stay in the system.
(d) % of planned equipment
procured
4. Fully functioning health  (e) % of planned equipment
centers and health stations  procured (by facility)
throughout Eritrea
(f) % of trained staff in place
(by type of facilities)
(g) % of facilities (by type)
fully equipped, staffed and
without stockouts
5. Fully functioning referral    (h) % cases referred by health
systems in Barentu and      centers/health stations, who
Mendefera                   actually get treated at the
referral hospital
6. Strengthened capacity for    (i) % of hospital services
planning, management and    which come from referrals
evaluation. Sound fnancial
planning and management     0) Reduction in need for
systems for the sector      foreign technical assistance
(k) % of health budgets fully
controlled by ZHCs
(1) % of facilities with modem
communication system
(m) % of local retention of
user fees collected
(n) % of facilities submitted
completed SEMIS reports



Annex 1, Page 4
Project Components          Indicators                   Sources:                    Assumptions
(See Annex 2 for a detailed                                                          (Components to
description.)                                                                        Outputs)
Financial Progress          (a) % of planned expenditures  (a) Audited financial
actually incurred (by category)  statements.             1. The planned financial
resources are made
available to the project
promptly - through the
Sub-Component 1:                                                                      timely completion of
Expanding access to                                                                   necessary formalities.
secondary referral health
care in two zones                                                                     2. Equipment and
supplies are appropriate to
1.1 Construct and equip two  (a) % of planned procurement  (a) Quarterly reviews by the    the local conditions,
referral hospitals          steps completed (for each bid    Ministry of Health, and semi-   provided in a timely
package)                    annual reviews by IDA        manner, and are
missions                    maintained regularly.
(b). Two referral hospitals in   (b) Site supervision, semi-  3. Technical assistance is
Barentu and Mendefera built   annual reviews by IDA      of high quality.
and equipped by 2001.       missions, and mid-term
review.                     4. Training programs are
(c). % of planned                                        appropriate, relevant and
recruitments completed                                   effective.
Sub-Component 2:
Strengthening health services
nationally                  (a). % of planned procurement  (a) Quarterly reviews by the
steps completed (for each bid    Ministry of Health, and semi-
2.1 Equip and furnish health    package);                annual reports prepared by
centers and health stations                              MoH
Procurement of civil works,
equipment and supplies (to the  (b) By year 2002, 22 health    (b) Site supervision, semi-
two hospitals, to selected  stations and 8 health centers    annual reviews by IDA
health centers and health   equipped, furnished, and fully   missions, and mid-term
stations, and to the central  operational.              review.
blood bank in Asmara).
(c) % of planned procurement  (c) Site supervision, semi-
steps completed (for each bid   annual reviews by IDA
2.2 Construct and equip the  package).                   missions
central blood bank in Asmara
(d) % of planned assessments
completed and results
2.3 PHC assessments         disseminated



Annex 1, Page 5
Sub-Component 3: Program
Management and
Sustainability
3.1 Completion of pilot     (a) % of planned studies,    (a) Quarterly reviews by the
studies/ operations research  which have been completed  Ministry of Health, and semi-
(for alternative financing  and results disseminated     annual reports prepared by
mechanisms)                                              MoH; semi-annual reviews by
IDA missions.
3.2 Deployment of trained   (a) % of planned training
personnel for project       programs completed.
implementation (at central and
zonal levels). Training in  (b) Regularity of continuing
specific tasks of health care, as  education programs for health
also in management          professionals.
information systems and
communication.              (c) % of planned recruitments
completed.
(d) % of communication
systems procured, distributed
and in use at the zonal level
3.3 Technical Assistance    (e) % of planned person-
(international and local)   months procured.
(a) % of planned supervisory
4. Project management,      visits actually undertaken
monitoring and supervision
(b) % of planned Ministerial
review meetings held.
(c) % of planned progress
reports prepared.
(d) No. of PMU staff trained
in various aspects of project
management
(e) % of planned person-
4.1 Technical Assistance    months procured
(international and local)                               (f) M&E systems maintained.
(f) M&E systems developed    MOH to monitor development
4.2 Conduct follow-up support and in use, timely collection    in the sector and improvements
at the central level        and analysis of statistics,  in health services delivery.
improvements in budgeting
procedures, and performance
of health facilities and quality
of services assessed.






Annex 2
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
Project Objectives and Strategy
The ultimate development objective of the project is to improve the health status of the people of Eritrea, thereby
enhancing their quality of life and their contribution to socio-economic development. The achievement of this objective at the
end of the five year implementation period will be measured by the following indicators: reductions in (a) infant and under-five
mortality rates, maternal mortality ratio, and total fertility rate; (b) prevalence rates of malnutrition in women , under-five
children, tuberculosis and AIDS; (c) incidence rates of malaria, diarrhea, ARI, STD and HIV; and (d) prevalence of female genital
mutilation practices. These indicators measure the achievement of the development objective and not the project performance per
se; many factors, including other activities of the Government of Eritrea (GoE), private sector initiatives, people's behaviors and
environmental determinants will influence the achievement of the development objective and it is impossible to tease apart the
exact extent to which the project will have made a difference in this regard; separate indicators have been developed to measure
the performance of the project specifically (see annex 1), but those cannot measure the achievement of the development objective.
The project's contribution to the above development objective would be in the following terms: (a) supporting GoE's
program of improving health care services by expanding access to secondary health care in two of the six zones, by strengthening
rural health services nationally and developing national blood bank services; (b) building the national and zonal capacity for the
effective and efficient management of health operations both at the programmatic level and at the project level, with a special
emphasis on institutional capacity, human resource development and financial sustainability.
Project Approach
The principal strategy under this project is to support those parts of the health services which currently do not have
sufficient resources, i.e., ensuring adequate referral services and selective financing of support to PHC facilities. Following this
strategy, the project studied the whole sector and its various sources of financing and identified the specific investment gaps in the
sector; based on such a determination, it proposes to construct, equip and staff new referral hospitals in two zones, develop
national blood bank services and provide equipment, furniture, training and information support to about 30 rural health facilities.
The absence of adequate referral services in the six zones results in poor quality care, as also a disproportionate burden on the
secondary care facilities that exist in the capital city of Asmara. To improve the delivery of basic health care, under-equipped
primary health facilities would be provided the necessary inputs to render them fully operational. The second strategic choice is to
strengthen institutional capacity in parallel with the activities aimed at expanding service delivery. The basis for this approach is
that the country is rebuilding itself after 30 years of civil war in which most of its systems and facilities have been destroyed. The
urgent need for rehabilitation of health facilities and building the basic infrastructure has to be fulfilled even as the human
resource development and capacity-building activities are under way. Thus, the approach is holistic and focused at the same time.
The project also adopts a participatory approach building on Eritrea's long tradition of local involvement and ownership.
Project inputs are targeted to the zones to enhance local accountability, ownership and strengthen financial and managerial
sustainability. The project also provides for flexibility to adjust approaches based on operational experiences gained on the
ground during implementation as well as to pilot initiatives aimed at promoting the sustainability of the health sector.
Project Components
Project Component 1 - Strengthening Health Services
The component will have two distinct sub-components, one focusing on two selected zones and the other providing
support more broadly to health facilities nationwide; the specific facilities which will receive support under the component have
been determined based on the lack of other resources to carry out the necessary strengthening activities. Specifically, it seeks to
expand access to secondary referral health care in two zones, improve the quality and delivery of PHC in rural health facilities
nationwide, and develop a national blood bank service. Two new hospitals would provide basic hospital services and referral
back-up care in two zones, i.e., the Southern Zone and Gash Barka Zone for the treatment of complicated medical cases of
malaria, diarrhea and pneumonia and many common surgical health problems such as accidents and complicated deliveries.
Health centers and health stations nation-wide would be provided with the necessary medical inputs necessary to efficiently extend
PHC coverage. With the emerging new health problems of traffic accidents and AIDS, an effective national blood bank service is
sought to be developed to ensure an adequate transfusion service as well as the capacity for safe blood screening.



Annex 2, Page 2
Project Sub-Component la - Expanding access to secondary referral health care in two zones (US$ 13.1 million)
This sub-component provides for the development (construction, equipping and staffing) of two new referral hospitals in
the towns of Barentu (Gash-Barka) and Mendefera (Southern Zone), each with a 200-bed capacity. The new referral hospitals
would replace the current health center in the respective cities, and would provide ambulatory and inpatient services in medicine,
pediatrics, general surgey, obstetrics & gynecology, ophthalmology, dental care and otorhinolaryngology. The idea is for the
hospitals to provide the basic hospital care for about half of the respective zone's population, residing in or near the capital while
serving as the first point of referral for the all of the zone's population. Over time, the hospitals would serve as MoH's training
center in the zone for para-professional health personnel.
Sites for the construction of the two hospitals have been chosen and agreed with the relevant ministries in GoE; these
sites have also been inspected by IDA missions and found suitable. The GoE has assured IDA that the sites are not currently
under use by any individual or group for gainful economic purposes nor do they form the residence for any population. Thus, no
resettlement or compensation issues arise. Based on international technical assistance, GoE has also determined the room
schedules and preliminary lists of equipment for the two hospitals. The hospitals are expected to have their own waste disposal
systems, water supply and power generation facilities, to avoid possible disruption of service if and when the municipal systems
may fail.
In line with GoE's decentralization process and the emerging relationships between the central and zonal governments,
zonal authorities are finalizing their zonal health action plans for extending health service coverage; as part of these plans, the
Southern and Gash-Barka Zones are also planning for managing the new hospitals. Existing zonal coordination mechanisms,
broadly representative of the interests of the zonal community, will be used to ensure community involvement and inter-sectoral
coordination; in the two zones where the hospitals are to be constructed, the Zonal authorities would be closely involved in the
implementation of the: (a) zonal hospital construction and equipping, and (b) planning for and implementing the proposed
autonomous and sustainable financing of the zonal hospitals.
Project Sub-Component lb - Strengthening health services nationally (US$ 4.7 million)
This sub-component includes the strengthening 30 rural heath facilities spread across the six zones, identified based on
the needs and resource gaps, and the development of Eritrea's national blood bank service. 12 health centers and 18 health
stations that are not fully operational for want of basic equipment and furniture and have not yet secured funding for such items
have been selected for support under this sub-component. The component would also include a provision of US$1 million for
procurement of essential drugs and vaccines, which are not limited to these selected facilities, but will be available to the country's
pool of supplies, to be distributed on an as-needed basis. Support would also be provided in the areas of IEC, community-based
operations research and other "software" activities to strengthen the rural health services. An in-depth study would be undertaken
within the first two years of the project to evaluate the quality and adequacy of health services nation-wide would be undertaken
to provide the future basis for determining which areas of the program need strengthening. This study would include an
assessment of community health services.
Eritrea's national blood bank service would be developed, including the construction and equipping of a central blood
bank in Asmara, the capital. Blood bank facilities are currently below standard and the country does not have a decent capacity to
deal with the need for safe blood supply in case of road traffic emergencies nor does it have adequate facilities to perform HIV
screening of blood. To facilitate the effective functioning of an integrated blood bank services network, support would be
provided in the following areas: (a) upgrading and standardizing zonal blood bank facilities with appropriate equipment, supplies
and skilled human resources; (b) formulating a clear national blood bank policy, including operational guidelines and appropriate
management and organizational structures; and (c) establishing appropriate quality assurance mechanisms to ensure maximum
safety of blood.
Project Component 2 - Strengthening Institutional Capacity
The capacity of MoH would be augmented at the central and zonal levels to plan and manage the health services
effectively, through two means: (a) supporting broader efforts to provide training, technical assistance and study tours on health
management and financing and sustainability; and (b) specific inputs into management and implementation for the proposed
project, which would after the life of the project, leave a critical mass of trained human resources in MoH and the zones, capable
of handling projects, dealing with Bank assistance and managing procurement, financial and administrative matters in general.
Project Sub-Component 2a - Program Management and Sustainability(US$ 2.1 million equivalent)
This sub-component aims to improve management capacity in the sector, and to develop various financing mechanisms
to ensure the long-term sustainability of the program. It would develop institutional mechanisms to promote local involvement
and managerial autonomy within the health system as a whole and in the hospitals and rural health facilities in particular. Such



Annex 2, Page 3
local autonomy is likely to improve service quality by increasing community ownership and accountability, raising and retaining
more local resources for the operation of the facilities, and making the services more responsive to the demands of local
communities. The interventions planned under the sub-component include: (a) capacity-building in zonal health authorities on
administrative, managerial, economic and financial aspects through workshops, study tours, and seminars, and technical assistance
in establishing improved systems; (b) pilot operations to test improvements in the referral systems, , and further analyses of
household survey data to understand care-seeking behaviors; (c) upgradation of communication systems between facilities and
management information systems; and (d) feasibility studies, workshops and study tours in order to develop a future health
financing strategy for the country, including merits and demerits of cost-sharing mechanisms, the design of various modalities of
community-based fnancing mechanisms such as rural health insurance, fee-for-service systems. The recently introduced cost-
sharing program would be evaluated to determine the efficiency and equity of the system. A study on fee-retention at the local
levels would be undertaken to examine the benefits of such retention in terms of greater flexibility in resource use and issues of
accountability, and development of local capacity to handle the required accounting and other fnancial procedures.
Project Sub-Component 2b - Project Management and Implementation (US$ 1.2 million equtvalent)
This sub-component aims to develop MoH's capacity for effective projet management and implementation, and
coordination between central and zonal offices and other government institutions involved in the project. Since the proposed
project would be the first IDA-financed operation in the sector, support would specifically be provided to build the capacity of the
PMU. This support would be in the form of staff training, workshops, and study tours, developing appropriate management and
information systems to facilitate the monitoring of project performance, office equipment/materials, and short-term technical
assistance in the implementation of selected activities as may be necessary. It is envisaged that eventually, the PMU would have
the skills to handle MoH projects in general - over and above the Bank-financed projects.



k



Annex 3
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                 Local    Foreign    Total  % of Foreign    % of Total
---- in US $ million ---    Exchange         Base Cost
A. Strengthening Health Care Services
1. Expanding Access to Secondary Health Care  6.0        6.7      12.7        53%           64%
in Two Zones
2. Strengthening health services nationally   2.1        2.1       4.2        50%           21%
Component Sub-Total    8.1        8.8      16.9        52%           85%
B. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. Program Management and Sustainability       0.9       1.1       2.0        55%            10%
2. Project Management and Implementation       0.7        0.3       1.0       30%            5%
Component Sub-Total:    1.6       1.4       3.0        47%            15%
Total Baseline Cost                              9.7        10.2      19.9       52%           100%
Physical Contingencies                           0.1        0.3       0.4         80             3
Price Contingencies                              0.3        0.5       0.8         63             4
Total Project Cost                               10.1       11.0      21.1       52%           107%



I



Annex 4
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
I. Introduction
Eritrea is a very poor country recovering from a protracted war of liberation. At independence in 1993, the health
sector was a shambles, and a very active rebuilding program got underway, with support from international donors;
the Government's spending on its health budget has grown from about 11 million birr in 1992 to nearly 110 million
birr in 1997, largely due to the capital costs of rebuilding the health services infrastructure. As part of this
reconstruction needed to provide basic essential health services, health centers and health stations were/are being built
and/or renovated in the rural areas. In order to ensure that the services provided by these health facilities are backed
up by an adequate referral service, it has been decided to construct/renovate a zonal hospital in each zone. It is in line
with such a plan that the project is financing the two zonal referral hospitals, the development of a national blood
bank service and the strengthening of health facilities with the provision of equipment, supplies and training. The
proposals are justified on the basis of the country's need to reconstruct the health system given the low number of
hospital beds currently available. To help ensure the long-term sustainability of these investments, the project
includes capacity building and financial management components. This annex attempts to analyze the significant
economic and financial implications of such reconstruction of an entire health service.
H.    Economic Rationale
An essential element of the economic justification of the project is that the activities it finances are chosen in the
context of the expenditure program for the sector as a whole. The project aims to fill important gaps in the sector
expenditure program; in this one respect, it is similar to a Sector Investment Program (SIP), i.e., its underlying
economic justification is based on overall sector expenditures, though the project is not a SIP in other respects.
The sustainability of sector expenditure within the macro-economic envelope is, of course, another and more
complex matter, especially in the Eritrean context of an extremely poor, war-ravaged economy heavily dependent
on external grant financing of the budget. The complexity of assessing long-term sustainability becomes greater
because it is nearly impossible to project future scenarios of public funds available for the sector based on past
trends, because the country is so young and the first several years of health expenditure are not likely to be
representative of a future trend. This issue of fiscal sustainability is to be addressed not only through the project but
as part of the overall macroeconomic dialogue as well.
m. Project Benefits: A More Conventional Analysis
This project will have a significant economic value. Details of this calculation are shown in Table 1. The
calculations shown in the table are based on the following steps:
The first column shows the amount of health services being delivered by the Ministry of Health during the year
1996. These amounts were used as a baseline. According to MoH data and project plans, the project will build and
equip about 12% of all hospital beds in Eritrea, and will equip about 30% of all health centers and health stations.
These quantities, shown in the second column, were used to calculate the possible increase in services shown in
column three. However, building and equipping facilities are only part of the inputs to new services, since staff
time and expendibles, including pharmaceuticals, will also be used. Therefore, the assumption was made that the
project contribution accounted for half of the inputs for new hospital services and 20% of the inputs for new
services at health centers and health stations. Taking these percentages of the new services produced the estimates
of project outputs of health services are shown in column five. Using previously calculated unit values of these
services in Birr (column 6) yeilds the monetary value of project outputs found in the last column of Table 1. In
addition, the assumption was made that the capacit-building and management strengthening activities of the project
would improve the general functioning of the MoH by about 5 %.



Annex 4, Page 2
Table 1: Calculation of Project Benefits
1996     Proj.   Amount    Project    Project    Unit        Total
Amt.      %      increase  contribution   output    value  value (BIRR)
Hospitals       _                            __                             _
Inpatient days   524,648   0.12      62,958        0.5     31,479      54     1,699,860
Outpatients      629,530   0.12      75,544        0.5     37,772      18       679,892
HCs and HSs                      I
Inpatient days    50,417    0.3      15,125        0.2      3,025      18        54,450
Outpatients     2,227,362    0.3    668,209        0.2    133,642      10      1,336,417
____________  __________ _Annual services benefit                3,770,619
Strengthening of overall health system: 114,431,877  0.051                      5,721,594
Total annual project benefits:     9,492,213
iII
Discount rate:                         0.07
Total benefit:                   135,603,305
When these benefits are summed, the project would produce an annual flow of benefits equal to almost 10 million
Birr. If this annual flow of benefits is discounted at a real rate of 7%, it yields a total project benefit of 136 million
Birr (approximately US$20 million). This flow of benefits is approximately equal to the proposed expenditures of
the project, but does not include the benefits accruing from the development of a blood bank service, because it is
an etirely new service and thus there is no past data to form the basis of esimating its value at this time.
While these calculations provide a baseline for estimating the project benefits, the project net value would rise
significantly if any of the following assumptions used in these calculations can be increased:
* The percentage increase in services from the new and improved facilities.
*  The percentage of the new services attributable to the project.
*  The estimated value of the new services.
*  The amount of general MoH improvements attributable to the project.
Improvements in the efficiency of the overall operations of the MoH would seem to have the greatest potential for
increasing the value of the project. Other changes that would significantly increase the value of the project would
be a stronger increase in service utilization. Because Eritrea has such low service utilization statistics, this is very
likely to happen, particularly given that improvements in quality are an essential element of the project. If
efficiency improved by 7 to 10%, and service utilization expanded by 20 to 30%, the project could easily have a
rate of return in the range of 20% to 40%.
IV. General Financing of the Health Sector.
Until this fiscal year, the MoH has been operating on an ad hoc expenditure basis, as has the entire government of
Eritrea making it difficult to examine the financial status of the health sector. In addition, a MoH proportion of sector
expenditures is derived from donors. Since the construction of two hospitals will have recurrent cost implications for
the MoH, it is important to examine the financial sustainability of the sector.
To make this assessment, a spreadsheet based forecasting model for the health sector was assembled. The objective
of the model is to predict the magnitude of recurrent cost financing needed by the MoH in the near future. Because of
uncertainty about both internal and external funding of the health sector, the model was kept simple, and conclusions
can only be considered indicative of potential outcomes.
The basic model consists of four parts: calculation of cost of operations, projections of service utilization, projections
of sector funding, and calculation of forecasts of per capita utilization and financial balances.



Annex 4, Page 3
1. The cost of operations in the MoH were calculated based on available information. These estimates have
significant room for improvement. The general objective was to calculate unit costs of the array of services
performed by the MoH. Information on current utilization of services and expenditure data are used whenever
possible to calculate rough unit costs. Some activities and expenditures, particularly in the teaching institutions
operated by the MoH, were omitted. In some cases the data are insufficient to do the calculation, and previous
Eritrea studies or international standards are used.
2. Growth in the demand for services was then modeled for a six-year period. Simple assumptions were used about
the growth rates of population, income, literacy, closeness to facilities, prices of services, and elasticities of
demand. The spreadsheet is capable of adding other factors affecting demand.
3. Projections were then made about the growth of sector funding over the six year period. It was assumed that
donor funding for the health sector would remain constant, in the absence of any indications of plans to increase
such funding. This spreadsheet allows this assumption to be modified, and also the growth rate of the
government budget, or the budget for any category or year to be specified.
4. Based on the projected funding, projected demand, and the cost of providing services, calculations are made on
the volume of services being used, the per capita utilization, and the budget surplus or deficit.
Despite obvious financial pressures on the govermment budget, the Ministry of Health reports a strong government
financial commitment. Although MoH recurrent expenditures in 1994 were estimated to be about 67 million Birr,
recent budget amounts have been summarized as:
Table 2: Preliminary Budget of Ministry of Health
(millions of Birr)
1996         1997
Recurrent Budget            74.66         94.03
Capital Budget              11.56          15.41
Total Expenditures          86.22        109.44
These totals represent large increases in MoH finances. If the 1997 budget increase actually takes place, the one
year rise in MoH finances for recurrent costs would be over 25%. Assuming a 25% growth each year would
relieve any financial problems of the MoH, but this may not be realistic. To simulate a strong commitment by the
government, the model was calculated with a 9% growth of the MoH budget (results shown in Figure 1).
According to this model, the MoH budget will run a deficit of 20 million 'Birr within six years. Inspection of the
model reveals that the primary reasons for this deficit are the increase in demand for services (mostly through
population growth), and the decreasing importance of donor funds (held constant in this scenario). It is very
important to recognize that this model has limited usefulness, given the various assumptions and estimations
involved. Ways of addressing the possible fiscal deficit in the sector are examined in Section VI below.
V. The fiscal burden on MoH budget due to the two new hospitals
The recurrent cost of providing these services is difficult to calculate, and the projections shown here are based on
several very strong assumptions; therefore, these could at best be indicative. The cost of an inpatient day is
assumed to be about 54 Birr, and of an outpatient visit as 18 Birr. Catchment areas for the hospitals are difficult to
estimate as well. Based on the population of the zones and the number of other hospital beds available, the
catchment populations for the Barentu and Mendefera hospitals were assumed to be 250,000 and 200,000
respectively.
With units costs and catchment population, total costs can be calculated based on a projected level of per capita
utilization. This, however, is also problematic. Current per capita utilization in existing facilities is very low,
which is a result of the quality of service being provided, difficulties in access to services and seasonal variations of
morbidity. With new facilities and improved quality, demand and utilization are likely rise. As a result, the



Annex 4, Page 4
following table was calculated using various assumptions on utilization. Another problem in deriving total costs
based on current estimation of unit costs of services is that as the utilization rises, unit costs are likely to fall due to
economies of scale. Moreover, the services provided by these hospitals are not of a single type and different
services would entail widely varying costs; to apply an average unit cost of 54 birr for inpatient day and 18 biff for
an outpatient visit is likely to yield serious distortions in the projected costs, depending on the distribution of
different illnesses presenting themselves to the hospitals and different treatments offered to them. Therefore, the
model is perhaps an over-simplification of what is a complex exercise.
Fig l.Projected Fiscal balance for the Ministry of Health in Eritrea (1996-2001)
Fiscal Balance
5,000,000
-5,000,000
-10,000,000
-15,000,000      -   PHC
_    +  Hospital
-20,000,000
Year
Table 3: Recurrent Costs Projections (1996)
Per capita Utilization           Barentu       IMendefara        T         Total
npatient   Outpatient                   [Ethiopian Birr]
Low             0.25         0.5       5,625,000        4,500,000     10,125,000
Medium           0.5        0 0.75    10,125,000        8,100,000     18,225,000
High            0.75                  14,625,000       11,700,000     26,325,000
Based on a population growth rate of 2.8%, and using the unit costs mentioned before, table 4, shows total recurrent
cost projections for the Barentu and Mendefera hospitals various utilization levels.



Annex 4, Page 5
Table 4: Recurrent Cost Projections for Barentu and Mendefara
Per-capita        1996         1997        1998         1999         2000       2001
Utilization
Low          10,125,000   10,408,500   10,699,938   10,999,536   11,307,523  11,624,134
Medium                                19,259,888   19,799,165   20,353,542  20,923,441
High                                  27,819,839   28,598,794   29,399,561  30,222,748
The medium and high cost scenarios have not been shown for 1996 and 1997, since the current levels are low.
Similarly, it is highly unlikely that per capita utilization would triple right away for inpatient services and double for
outpatient services; even if such a growth occurs, it would take some years. Therefore, it would be reasonable to
assume the low case scenario for the years 1998 - 2000 and the medium case scenario for 2001, assuming the
hospitals become fully functional by then. These cells have therefore been highlighted in the table. Best estimates
of the cost of the current facilities at these zonal capitals are no more than six million Birr (the table therefore over-
estimates the recurrent costs for 1996 and 1997, even while using the low-case scenario. The additional recurrent
cost per annum could range from 7 to 10 million birr (US$1 to 1.5 million) per annum by the year 2001.
VI. Measures to Mitigate the Fiscal Impact
MoH is likely to face severe fiscal constraint in the coming years, given the current economic picture and level of
poverty prevalent in Eritrea. How it deals with this problem will have a profound effect on the status of health
services in Eritrea. One common approach is simply to place the deficit in areas which end up affecting the quality of
services. For example, buildings and equipment are not maintained, drug shortages occur in health facilities, and staff
salaries do not keep up with inflation. Such an approach quickly results in a deteriorating health service and clearly
this is not a desirable option.
To maintain the system, and to continue to provide increasing quality services to a growing population, the health
system will require additional resources. If the assumptions used in section IV of this annex were to hold true, the
MoH could face a deficit of 20 million birr in 6 years' time. Additionally, when these two new hospitals become
operational, their recurrent costs and therefore, the sector's deficit, might increase by 5 to 15 million Birr. Therefore,
within six years, the MoH will need to put another 25 to 35 million Birr into the health system annually to prevent the
services from deteriorating due to resource constraints. This amount represents only about 7-10 Birr (US$1 to 1.5)
per capita in additional annual expenditures.
Financing sources for these additional resources are essentially four: cost-savings through improved efficiencies, the
government's own budget, private financing, i.e., from the users of the services, and international donors. It does
not seem prudent to count on increasing the supply of donor resources, particularly for recurrent expenses.
Government's budgetary increases may cover the requirements partly, but collection of user seems to be necessary
to fill the remaining need.
There are several methods of increasing user financing, most of which depend on the use of cost recovery funds.
These systems have the additional benefits of improving efficiency in the allocation of services in the health sector,
enhancing transparency and community's ownership of the services and thereby the provider's direct accountability
to the users. Such enhanced accountability could lead to better quality of care, resulting in improved utilization and
further efficiency gains. Such gains are more likely to come about, if the user fees are retained at the local level
with decentralized authority to spend the resources. Under current Government of Eritrea policy, funds collected by
the MoH through cost recovery go directly to the treasury. Experience has been that local retention of user fees
reduces administrative costs and increases the amount of revenue collected.
Using service volumes projected by the financing model, Table 5 shows the amount of cost recovery funds that would
be generated by the MoH proposals of 19 Birr for an inpatient day, 5 Birr for registration as an inpatient, 5 Birr for an
outpatient visit to a hospital, and 4 Birr for outpatient service at a health center. The raw totals indicate that 100%
collections would generate enough revenue to cover a considerable portion of the deficit, even with the addition of the



Annex 4, Page 6
two new hospitals. However, given the levels of poverty in rural Eritrea, it is unlikely that the proposed user fees
could be realistically collected at the rate of 100%. Some of these services would surely be provided for free.
Nevertheless, it would seem reasonable to expect that cost recovery could generate from 10 to 20 million Birr per
annum within six years time.
Table 5: Effects of Including Cost Recovery Funds.
Year:                     1           2          3          4          5         6
Inpatient days, hospital (19 Birr)    10,570,052   11,489,963  12,489,935  13,576,934  14,758,535  16,042,970
inpatient discharges (5 Birr)  296,171      321,947    349,966    380,423    413,531    449,521
TOTAL Outpatient, hospital (5 Birr)   3,814,648    4,146,637  4,507,519  4,899,808   5,326,239   5,789,781
Inpatient days, HC (19 Birr)    916,986      996,792   1,083,542   1,177,843   1,280,351   1,391,780
Inpatient discharges (5 Birr)   61,727      67,099     72,939     79,287    86,187     93,688
Outpatient, HC (4 Birr)        2,785,285    3,027,688  3,291,188   3,577,620  3,888,980   4,227,438
Outpatient, HS                        0           0          0          0         0          0
Total Cost Recovery Funds     18,444,869   20,050,126  21,795,088  23,691,915  25,753,822  27,995,177
Other measures to Increase Efficiency and Generate Revenue
The Government of Eritrea is in the process of decentralizing its management structure, devolving increasing greater
authority to the Zones. Such decentralization could have significant effects on finances. Local levels of decision-
making could improve the efficiency of resource allocation and use, thus extending the amount of services gained
from existing resources, and could eventually increase the resources available. Financial management training for
Zonal and District officials would be an important and essential prerequisite for decentralization to work.
Health insurance schemes are becoming much more common in all countries. This is a natural outgrowth of the
fact that financing of health services through general taxation is indeed somewhat like insurance systems, in the
sense it results in some risk-pooling and resource-pooling. But general taxation is not the most efficient and
transparent way of health insurance. By developing better models of early health insurance systems, the MoH could
begin to move the health sector to a more equitable and efficient operation.
Drug revolving funds have proven to be popular mechanisms in some countries for ensuring a consistent supply of
drugs. After salaries, drugs are the largest recurrent expenditure by most Ministries of Health. Drug revolving
funds might be an effective method of increasing funding for drugs, and creating a more efficient delivery system at
the same time. These funds can work either within the public health services system, or as a complement to it.
They provide a great deal of flexibility in service delivery as well.
Private health facilities can relieve much of the burden on the public health sector. By providing services for a
portion of the population, they reduce the quantity of services required of the public facilities. Moreover, various
public and private partnerships and other arrangements can increase the viability of public services, while increasing
access to private facilities.
Private management of public health facilities has long been recognized as a method of increasing the efficiency
of public facilities. Experiences in other countries have shown that some types of private management contracts can
increase service quality and volume as well.



Annex 5
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Financial Summary
(in US$ million)
Financial Summary                       Implementation Period                    Operational Period
(US$ million)
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   2003    2004    2005
Project Costs
Investment Costs              0.84    2.32      7.50     7.03     1.63    19.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
Recurrent Costs               0.09     0.10     0.20     0.57    0.77     1.73     1.50     1.50    1.50
Total                       0.93    2.42     7.70    7.60    2.40   21.05       1.50     1.50    1.50
Financing Sources (% of total
uroiect costs)
IDA                         75       86      88       88       83               0        0       0
Govermnent                  25       14       12      12       17               ?        ?       ?
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0        0       0        0        0                ?        ?        ?
Total                    100      100      100     100      100               100     100      100






Annex 6
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
1.     General:  The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A. A
Procurement Plan for the first year of the Project will be prepared as part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). It will be
provided to IDA in draft form prior to negotiations and finalized prior to effectiveness in accordance with agreements reached
between IDA and GoE during negotiations.. A PPF has been approved to assist the MoH in obtaining the necessary consultants
and equipment to facilitate the development of the project. In order to strengthen MoH's procurement capacity, the following
measures will be implemented:
* A procurement specialist would be recruited to assist MoH in coordinating all procurement activities.
* Standard procurement processing timetables, including the gestation time for completion of deliveries, will be reviewed
during negotiations (see draft Project Implementation Manual).
* A draft procurement plan for the project will be prepared and reviewed at negotiations (see Project Implementation Manual).
The plan will detail the specific packages and time frames for procuring the packages for all procurement activities scheduled
for the first project year. A revised plan for each succeeding year will be provided for Bank review annually.
*  Training of MoH procurement staff on Bank procurement procedures and documents.
TABLE A. PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB        NCB      Other 1/     N.I.F. 2/     TOTAL
(1) Civil works              6.65     0.23                                      6.88
(6.0)   (0.22)                                   (6.22)
(2) Goods including
Equipment, Vehicles and
Furniture (excluding         5.35     2.25         0.25                         7.85
pharnaceuticals)            (5.17)    (1.62)      (0.22)           .           (7.01)
(3) Drugs and Vaccines       1.00                                               1.00
(1.00)                     .                      (1.00)
(4) Consultants' Services                           0.94                        0.94
(0.80)                      (0.80)
(5) Studies, Survey and                             0.40                        0.40
Research                                          (0.40)           .           (0.40)
(6) Training                                        1.45                        1.45
(1.45)          ..          (1.45)
(7) Incremental Operating                           1.01         0.72           1.73
Costs 3/                                          (0.51)           .           (0.51)
(8) Refinancing of PPF                              0.80                        0.80
(0.80)          ..          (0.80)
TOTAL          13.00     2.48         4.85          0.72         21.05
(12.21)    (1.84)     (4.18)          ..          (18.23)
Note: Slight differences may occur as a result of the rounding of figures. Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts
financed by IDA, including contingencies but excluding taxes and duties
1/ Other procurement methods including shopping, direct purchasing of goods, selection of consultants following IDA guidelines,
TAPSO, and expenditures following GoE administrative procedures, acceptable to IDA.
2/ NIF means Not-IDA financed.
3/ Incremental operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation, management
and supervision, including office supplies and other consumable, equipment maintenance, travel and allowances of project staff,.
Salaries of PMU staff and health personnel for Barentu and Mendefera referral hospitals, to be fnanced 100% by GoE.
2.     Procedures:    Procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1996) and the



Annex 6, Page 2
"Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January, 1997. Preference for domestically
manufactured goods and domestic contractors will apply in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents will be used for all ICB procurement. NCB procedures will be specified in the Project Implementation Plan
which will be submitted for review during negotiations. These procedures will ensure transparency of the process by including
provisions which require that : (a) the bidding documents contain an explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award
criteria; (b) opportunities for national competitive bidding be notified by local advertising and subjected to public bid opening; (c)
award be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (d) foreign bidders will not be precluded from participating in NCB.
Responsibility for carrying out the procurement function will be delegated to the Ministry of Works for civil works and to
PHARMECOR for all other requirements.
3.     Civil works:   Civil works contracts for the two referral hospitals will be procured through ICB. Civil works contracts
for the Central Blood Bank, estimated to cost below US$ 250,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of $250,000 equivalent,
will be procured through NCB following procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.     Goods: Included in this category will be medical equipment, furniture, and supplies for hospitals, health centers, health
stations, and the Central Blood Bank. This category will also include ambulances and mini-buses, drugs and vaccines, computers
and other office equipment, and radio communications equipment. Contracts for the procurement of Goods will be, to the extent
practical, grouped in bid packages estimated to estirnated to cost US $100,000 equivalent or more for procurement under ICB.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US $100,000 but more than US $ 50,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of $2.25 million equivalent, will be procured following NCB.  Contract packages valued at less than US$
50,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of $ 250,000 equivalent, may be purchased through International or National
Shopping on the basis of a minimum of three price quotations solicited from qualified suppliers and in the case of International
Shopping, the three qualified suppliers will be from two different countries..
5.     Consultant Services: The project will fnance a total aggregate amount of US$ 2.79 million equivalent for technical
assistance, studies, operational research, surveys and training. Individual consultants and consultant frms will be hired following
the World Bank guidelines. In addition to the General Procurement Notice (GPN), advertisements inviting expressions of interest
will be placed in the United Nations Development Business for all requirements estimated to cost the equivalent of US $200,000
or more.
(a)  Consultants for architectural services, research surveys, and other contracts which are estimated to cost the
equivalent of US $100,000 or more will be selected following QCBS procedures.
(b)  Contracts for training activities and those for other services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US
$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of $1.45 million equivalent, will be awarded based on the qualifications of the consultants in
accordance with paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
(c)  Individuals for specialized assignments, up to an aggregate amount of $340,000 equivalent, will be selected based
on the procedures for the selection of individual consultants in Section V of the Guidelines.
Prior review requiredfor:
*  In addition to the above, the first two tender packages and related contracts for goods to be procured through NCB.
Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by IDA during semi-annual supervision missions.
*  Terms of Reference for all consultants, including studies, survey, training, and research.
*  Procurement Plan. A draft Procurement Plan is being prepared as part of the PIP. It will be reviewed during
negotiations and will be finalized prior to credit effectiveness.
.
Documents:
* For ICB: World Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs)
*  For NCB: Standard bidding documents based on Bank's SBD, to be reviewed during negotiations and finalized prior
to credit effectiveness.
*  For Consultants: Bank's standard contracts; samples for Letters of Invitation (LOI) and Supplementary Information.
Other documents include: Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Report and standard general and specific procurement notices.



Annex 6, Page 3
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
._______________      M ethods
Categories             ICB                NCB                   Other          Prior Review by IDA
Civil Works            Contract of US$    Under US$ 250,000    N/A             + US$ 200,000
200,000 or more
Goods
(a) Equipment, vehicles  Contracts of US$  Contracts under US$    Contract     + US$ 100,000
and furniture          100,000 or more     100,000 (Aggregate    under US$
(Aggregate amount  amount of US$ 2.25    50,000
of US$5.35 million)  million)            (aggregate
amount of
US$ 250,000)
(b) Drugs and Vaccines  All                                                    +US$ 100,000
Consultants Services   N/A                N/A                   All (aggregate  Firms US$ 100,000 or
amount of     more;
US$ 940,000)  Individuals US$ 50,000
or more.
Studies, Research and    N/A              N/A                   All (aggregate  See Consultant Services
Surveys                                                         amount of
US$ 400,000)
Training               N/A                N/A                   All (aggregate  See Consultant Services
amount of
US$ 1.45
million)
Incremental Operating    N/A              N/A                   All (aggregate
Costs                                                           amount of
US$ 1.01
million)
Disbursement
Use of Statement of Expenses (SoEs):
Contracts of less than US$ 250,000 for works.
Contracts of less than US$ 100,000 for goods.
Consultant contracts of less than US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals.
Training
Operating Costs
Special account (denominated in US$ dollars):
*  MoH would establish a special account in a commercial bank in Asmara, with an initial deposit of US$ ... equivalent to cover
project related expenditures of about 4 months.
*  Direct payment: minimum application about 20 percent of Special Account deposit.



Annex 6, Page 4
The Project Director, in collaboration with the Administrative/Finance Officer, would be responsible for submitting regular
replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures under the annual work program.
Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US$          Financing
million            Percentage
1. Civil Works                                      5.8          100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
2. Goods including Equipment, Vehicles and           6.5         100% of foreign
Furniture, excluding pharmaceuticals                             expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
3. Pharmaceutical Supplies                           0.9         100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
4. Consultant Services                               0.8                100%
5. Training                                          1.3                100%
6. Studies, Survey and Research                     0.3                 100%
7. Incremental Operating Costs                      0.5                  60%
8. Refinancing of PPF Advance                       0.8          Outstanding
Amounts due from
the PPF, as per
Section 2.02 of DCA
9. Unallocated                                       1.4
Total         18.3



Annex 7
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                                                            Actual
US$ 691,400
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (24 months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                          11/9/95
Appraisal mission departure                          5/26/97                5/26/97
Negotiations                                         11/04//97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        3/31/98
Prepared by: The Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance: Population and Human Resource Development Grant, PPF Advance
Bank staff who worked on the proiect included:
Core team: S. Sundararajan (Senior Population, Health and Nutrition Specialist, and Task Team Leader),
David Dunlop (Health Economist), Larry Forgy (Economist), Marilou Bradley (Operations Analyst), John
Fringer (Sr. Procurement Specialist), Francesco Samo (Sr. Procurement Specialist), Kishor Uprety
(Lawyer), Paul Vandenheede (Sr. Disbursement Officer), Palita Wijesinghe (Sr. Disbursement Officer);
Hopkins Holmberg (Consultant, Health Management), Caren Lenngren-Martin (Consultant Architect),
Patricia Orna (Task-team Assistant).
Extended team: Akbar Noman (Sr. Economist), Wendy Rosebery (Sr. Health Specialist), Anne-Marie
Erickson (Consultant Hospital Equipment Specialist), Anil Deolikar (Consultant Economist and Statistical
Analyst), John St. Germain (Consultant Architect), Andrew Nyamete (Consultant Survey Coordinator),
Birger Forsberg (Consultant, Public Health), Khadija Hashi (Consultant, Public Health), Gertrude Ssali,
Mary Green and Geise Santos (Task-team Assistants).
Quality Advisory Group:
Lead Advisors: Surendra Agarwal (Technical Manager, Operations Support), Ed Elmendorf (Lead
Specialist on Health, Nutrition and Population).
Peer Reviewers: Ian Morris ( Sr. Human Resources Specialist), Jo Martins (Sr. Public Health Specialist).
The Acting Sector Manager is Arvil Van Adams and the Country Director is Oey Astra Meesook.



I



Annex 8
ERITREA
HEALTH PROJECT
Documents in the Project File*
A.      PIP
B.     Bank Staff Assessments
1.     Eritrea: An Initial Health Sector Review. August 11, 1995. World Bank, AF2PH.
2.     PHC in Eritrea - Situation Analysis. March 1996, World Bank, AF2PH.
3.     Summary of the PHC Situation in Eritrea. January 1997. World Bank, AF2PH.
4.     Eritrea Health Sector Project - Zonal Hospital Utilization and Sector Financing. September 17, 1996. World
Bank   PSP.
5.     Proceedings of the East Africa Burden of Disease, Cost Effectiveness of Health Care Interventions and Health
Policy Regional Workshop. August 1994. World Bank, AF2PH.
6.     Note on Financial Analysis for Eritrea Health Project. February 1997. World Bank, PSP.
C. Other
1.     The Government of the State of Eritrea Macro Policy Document. GoE. November, 1994.
2.     Health Profile: 1994-1995. MoH, Planning and Evaluation Bureau.
3.     Health Profile: 1995-1996. MoH, Planning and Evaluation Bureau.
4.     Health Project Proposal for 1995-1997. MoH. 1994.
5.     PHC Policy Guidelines. MoH. May 1996.
6.     Public Health and Rehabilitation Program - Eritrea. Strengthening and Expanding the Health Care and
Rehabilitation Delivery System in Eritrea. PHARPE Document. August 1996.
7.     Programme of Cooperation 1996-2000. June, 1996. The Government of the State of Eritrea and UNICEF.
8.     Proposed Referral Hospital - Mendefera, Eritrea. Background to the Proposal. H. Holmberg. May, 1997
9.     Proposed Referral Hospital - Barentu, Eritrea. Background to the Proposal. H. Holmberg. May, 1997.
10.    Options for Strengthening the Management of Eritrea's Health Services. H. Holmberg. June, 1997.
11.    Human Resources Development Plan for the Ministry of Health. MoH. September 1996.
12.    Proclamation for the Establishment of Local Governments No. 86/1996. Ministry of Local Government. April
1996.
13.    Preliminary Proposal to Upgrade the National Blood Bank Services in Eritrea. MoH, Central Health Laboratory.
May, 1997.
14.    Eritrea: The Expanded Program on Immunization. Draft Review Report. MoH. June, 1995.
15.    Eritrea Health Facility Assessment. Draft Report. MoH and USAID/BASICS. August 4, 1995.
16.    Standard Equipment List for Referral Hospitals. July, 1997
17.    Standard Equipment and Furniture Lists for Health Centers and Health Stations. 1996
18.    Consultant's Report. Strengthening Epidemiological and health planning skills. B. Forsberg. January 1996.
19.    Consultant's Report: Review of preconditions for Work on Burden of Disease Estimates. B. C. Forsberg.
November 1996.
20.    Consultant's Report on proposed construction of new referral hospitals. C. Lenngren-Martin. July 1996 and
December 1996.
21.    Eritrea Demographic and Health Survey 1995. Preliminary Report. National Statistics Office, GoE.
* Including electronic files.






Annex 9
ERITREA
Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
As of July 31, 1997
(in US$ millions)
Loan or Credit  Fiscal     Borrower                 Purpose                 Less Cancellations
No.             Year                                                Bank       IDA        Undisbursed
CREDITS
I Credit closed            Eritrea                                             25.00
Cr. 2823        1996       Eritrea                  Community                  17.50      12.51
Development
Fund
Cr. 2945        1997       Eritrea                  Road                       6.32       5.98
Engineering
Credit
Total no. of
Credits = 2                                                                    23.82      18.49
LOANS
0 Loan(s)
closed                                                             0.00                   0.00
Total No. of
Loans = 0                                                          0.00                   0.00
Total                                   0.00       48.82
of which repaid                        0.00       0.00
Total held by Bank & IDA                0.00       48.82
Amount Sold       0.0
of which repaid    0.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                  18.92



Annex 10
Eritrea at a glance                                                                  8/28197
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL.                                              Sharan    Low-
Ent        : Africa   Inome     Deveopment de#mond"
Po to  mi-1998 mn)                                         3.7        BOD    3,229
GNP pir capila t996 (U/SSJ )                                         490      500!SK               Life expectancy
GNP 198(/on UJS )                            234                             1,601
Avrg  nnual grow,   l-
PoWul1at1 (                                                2          2.7       17       GNP                                Gross
Labor force (%)                      2.6        2.8       1.7     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per                  pnimary
Moti uant        t 4t. ;te: ( st year aSYaible asince 1989)                              capita                         enrollment
Po1ety- headcount hIdex (% 6ofpqpWltn)
Urba lpopulatlon (% of totalpopu/a)                         17'        31       29
Lifeexpctcy at bir11 (years)-                              48          52       63
Intent0 m001tR  (p  4 1,000  e bIth)                       131          2       69Access to sawater
Access to safe water (%76of poputibn)  00 A47ce  t s 53
Illlteracy(% of population age 15*)                                   4 43      34
Groliprlnary enrolent (X ofsho g popula )                  49          72      106
Ma-                                                      54      78          112                 Low-income group
:Female                                                   43         86        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975      1086       10S0    -1906
Economic ratios'
Gross doest1c InvestmentGDP                                          20.5      26.4              Openness of economy
Exotsof goods and servlces)GDP                              6. 29.6            222               O
Gross domestic svIngs/GOP                                           -27.2    -25.8
GM"a national saavln/GDP                          ..         .       10.       10.1
Current acowunt balance/GOP                                          -92      -12.9
Internet payments/GOP                              ..       ..         ..0   0   0 tS   0; i    Savings                Investment
Total debUGDP
Total debt servicexpons                            ..
Preant 4alue of deWGDP
Present value od debW/exports                                                                        Indebtedness
197546  1911U4t       1S969      1906  1997-05
pverge annua o                                                                               -       Erlfrea
GDP'                                                       3.9        5.5       5.2
GNP per cagita                                                                               ____ Low4income group
Expot dofgoods and servkces                                ,_,                    ,
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975 1o                1S     1          Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriulture                                        ,,         ,       11.1         .     10.
Industry                                                             24 6 .  4
Manufacturing                                                      16.2        s.
Services                                                             64.3        .__
r    O'cZZZ;      9     9s    9s
Private consumption                                                                     4
General govemment consumption                                                                           GDi           GDP
Imports of goods and servioes                                        77.4      744                -
197545  1900600        1006      1900
(average annual growth)                                                                 Growth rafts of exports and Imports t%l
Agrculture                                                                               r
Industry
Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption
General government consumpton          o   _                            .
Gross domest Investment                                                                        ls   S2    S3    94    95    9f
Import of goods and services                                                                     -Exports .mpors
Gross nallonal product                             ,                 -4.4
Note: 1996 data are prelimIary estimates.
The diamonds uhow four key Indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incompete.



Annex 10, Page 2
Eritrea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995    1996
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                              8.0       ..       1to      9.0
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..       ..       11.2     8.
Government finance
(%ofGDP)                                                                       |
Current revenue                                                          1DS9
Current budget balance                        ..       ..        ..    -33 
Overall surplus/deficit                       ,,       ..        ..    -55.
TRADE
1975    1965      1995    1996
(millions US$)
Totalexports (fob)                           13        82         0       f
Commodity 1
-         Commodity2
M anufactures
Total imports (cif)                         68       456          0      331
Food
*    Fuel and energy
Capital goods
Export price index (S87-VO)                    ..
Importpriceindex(S87'IDO)                      .        .
Terms of trade (S87=2iO)                      ,.       ..        ..       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1965      1995    1996
(imillions USS)
Exports of goods and services                  ..               171      147
Imports of goods and services                  ..              448      490
Resource balance                               ..      ..    -276       -344
Net income                                     ..      ..         8        5
Net current transfers                         ..       ..       215      254
Current account balance,
-         beforeofficialcapitaltransfers               ..       ..       -53      -85
Financing items (net)                         ,.       ..        -5       0                                         _
Changes in net reserves                        ..      ..        58       75
Memo:
Reserves including go Id (mill. USS)           .
Conversion rate (bocal/LUS$)
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ,.
IBRD
IDA
Total debt service
IBRD
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                              ..
Officialcreditors
Private creditors
Foreign direct Investment                    .
Portfolio equity                             ..
vMbrld Bank program
Commitments
Disbursements                                _
Principal repayments                         ..
Net flows                                    _
interest payments
Net transfers                                ..
Development Economics                                                                                            812897
Note: Estimates for Eritrea aresubject to morethan the usual range of uncertainty aid should be regarded a veryprelIminary.



I



MAP SECTION



37-  IS,                                                                                                 18-                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 29178
SAUDI ARABIA                                               ERITREA
411,                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEALTH PROJECT
*  HOSPITALS TO BE BUILT AT THESE LOCATIONS
-MAJOR ROADS
SECONCIARY ROADS
.RAILROADS
~ IVERS
k                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERMITTENT STREAMS
fA                                                                                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS
oE    REGION CAPITALS
S    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
----REGION BOUNDARIES
All,                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Thi, -p  p-od..d by h.Mep e,ig~ LNitof The We,IdBeS-
Th~ b-ed-io, ~&e-, de--i- ..d-y~thot,teteid.-u-
k                                                                                                                                   j.dg-f lh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1~~~~~~~g~~~~hm, d -y ,il.,y, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~dttet nAeIgo,oO  -ynytoioy,ono d--,osn~n
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~,w~~~~~~~y  ~~T/A                                                                                                                                         1 TAdono
(I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
ETHIOPIA~~~~~~~~~~F.6                                                                                    5THO/I
GAD;KENYA
TM  39                                            010                       450  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   DJIBO T                                             4         H
/  ~~~~~~~T'         35n ~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBERE 1997



