Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11457
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
DECEMBER 21, 1992
Energy and Industry Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Peru
Petroleum Production Enhancement Project
(Loan 2195-PE)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Peru - Petroleum Production Enhancement Project (Loan 2195-PE)" prepared by
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Implementation of the project took place during Peru'. mounting
economic crisis. As a result, expected local funding and co-financing did not
materialize -- 39Z of the Bank loan itself was cancelled -- and the project was
only partially completed. Only a third of the recoverable reserve target was
proven under the project. The financial performance of the project agency has
been poor and the sector policy objectives embedded in the project were not
achieved. While useful studies were carried out and training objectives were
met, the project is rated unsatisfactory, its institutional impact as partial and
its long-term sustainability as uncertain.
A separate Project Completion Note will be prepared to cover that
part of the loan (US$ 20 million) which was reallocated to finance an emergency
infrastructure reconstruction program. As far as the balance of the loan is
concerned, the attached report is thorough and informative. Part II was taken
from the final report prepared by the Borrower. No audit is contemplated at this
time.
Attachment
I This docunmnt hus a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only In the perfornnco of
I thefr official dutles. Its contents my not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank suthorizatIon.



l



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
.PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . . .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . .  . . . . . . .1
1.    Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.    Background  .1......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                    . .
3.  Preparation ......................... . 6
4.    Implementation ....................... . 10
5.  Results ........................... . 15
6.    Financial Performance of PETROPERU  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
7.    Sustainability ....................... . 19
8.    Performance ......................... . 20
9.    Lessons to be Learned .................... . 23
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . 25
PART III- STATISTICAL INFORMATION .33
1   Related Bank Loans                ............. . 33
2   Loan Processing Timetable              ............ . 34
3     Actual and Forecast Project Timetable .   ...    ...  .             .  .  .    . 35
4     Actual and Forecast Costs and Sources of Financing  . . . . . . 36
5     Actual and Forecast Disbursement Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . 38
6     Actual, Revised, and Forecast Allocation of Proceeds  . . . . . 39
7     Project Results and Net Present Value    . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
8     Petroleum Production and Balance  ....               ......  .      .  .  .    . 45
9     Actual and Forecast Financial Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
10    Status on Loan Covenants   ............ ..... . 48
11    Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . ... 51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankt authorization.|






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Petroleum Production Enhancement Project, for which Loan 2195-PE in the
amount of US$81.2 million was made to Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU),
S.A. with the guarantee of the Republic of Peru. The project was
designed to increase proven oil reserves and production at the Laguna-
Zapotal fields, located on the north coast of Peru, and to improve
capabilities of PETROPERU to prepare and implement petroleum development
projects. The project also included training for PETROPERU staff.
Although the loan was approved on August 10, 1982 and signed
on September 17, 1982, the Bank did not declare it effective until July
28, 1983. Shortly afterwards, the Government requested and obtained
Bank approval to reallocate US$20.0 million of the loan proceeds to help
cover the cost of an emergency program to reconstruct infrastructure
damaged as a result of torrential rains in 1982-1983. The Bank also
reallocated US$22 million and US$38 million from Loans 1771-PE and 2091-
PE, respectively, to help fund this emergency program. This PCR does
not cover the emergency program.
Because Peru discontinued payment of debt service, the
Bank suspended disbursements on all loans to Peru in May 1987.  The loan
was closed on June 30, 1987, the original closing date. The last
disbursement was on January 26, 1988. The Bank canceled the undisbursed
balance of US$31.8 million (39% of the loan amount) on August 23, 1989.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy and Industry Division of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III). Part II is taken from the final project
report prepared by PETROPERU in October 1990.
Preparation of the PCR started in late June 1991, and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, supervision reports,
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, plus correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and a short visit to Peru in
June-July 1991.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          Descriotion.   In support of the Petroleum Production
Enhancement Project, the Bank loaned Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU), S.A. ,
the state-owned petroleum company, US$81.2 million (Loan 2195-PE; 1982).
This project aimed at increasing proven oil reserves and production at the
Laguna-Zapotal fields by almost 40 million barrels over the life of the
project (1983-2002) and improving the capability of PETROPERU to prepare
and implement petroleum development projects.  In connection with the
first objective, there was a drilling (or enhancement) component,
involving the drilling of 159 new wells and the reactivation (or
recompletion) of 76 old wells (Part A); the second component consisted of
consultancy services for studies and training (Part B) (para. 3.04). At
the request of the Government and PETROPERU, the Bank redefined (December
1983) the project to include Part C, an emergency repair component; and
made a corresponding reallocation (US$20 million) of the loan proceeds.
2.          PETROPERU drilled 161 new wells and reactivated 51 old wells
(para. 4.02). Actual and expected implementation periods were 77 months
and 55 months, respectively; actual and expected completion dates were
December 1989 and December 1986, respectively. Project implementation was
delayed because there was a huge natural disaster (1982-83), coupled with
late compliance with effectiveness conditions (July 1983, almost one year
after loan approval).   There was further delay due to financial
constraints, complex local procurement procedures, and close supervision
by a host of Government agencies (1984-85) (paras. 4.06-.15). The pace of
implementation was satisfactory in 1986 but slowed significantly
thereafter following the Bank's decision to suspend disbursements on all
loans to Peru (see below).  Results with respect to increased proven
recoverable reserves (13.5 million barrels) were marginal (para. 5.01).
3.          Cost and Sources of Financino.  The actual and forecast pro-
ject costs were, respectively, US$164.4 million and US$241.2 million (in
current prices); but these values, which did not include the cost of Part
C, are not fully comparable because PETROPERU did not complete certain
project components due to financial constraints. Further, the shortfall
with respect to increased proven reserves (- 66%) makes the completed and
expected projects quite different (para. 4.01). The Bank suspended (May
1987) disbursements on all loans to Peru due to mounting arrears, and
later canceled the undisbursed balance (August 1989) (para. 4.16).
4.          According to PETROPERU, Bank financing for the project (Parts
A & B) amounted to only US$42.1 million, 48.2% less than expected (para.



- iii -
4.04).  PETROPERU and co-financiers provided the balance of financing,
respectively, US$85.8 million (or 114.5% more than expected) and US$37.4
million (or 68.8% less than expected). The shortfall with respect to co-
financing was due to the reluctance of foreign commercial bankers to make
additional loans to Peru and Latin America in circumstances of financial
deterioration (para. 4.05).
5.          Although the records of PETROPERU indicate disbursement on
Parts A and B amounting to US$42.1 million -- and this figure is reflected
in the above project cost data -- the disbursement records of the Bank
indicate a sum of US$42.6 million.   The difference (US$0.56 million)
appears to have its origin in differing understandings with respect to the
final use of similar equipment purchased in connection with Parts A and C
(paras. 4.17-.18).   Including Part c, total disbursements amounted to
US$49.4 million.
Sector Issues.
6.          Role of the Government.  At appraisal, the Bank questioned the
dual (and sometimes contradictory) role of the Government as sector policy
maker/regulator and owner/operator of an enterprise with revenue-earning
objectives. The contradiction was (and is) due to the Government's use of
PETROPERU, which is a state monopoly, as a vehicle for implementing social
policy. In other words, the Government established policy with respect to
petroleum price levels, and PETROPERU implemented that policy. i.e.,
PETROPERU was forced to subsidize the domestic prices of petroleum
products.   This policy worked to the financial detriment of PETROPERU
throughout the 1980s.
7.          The Bank did not condition the loan to a clarification of the
role of the Government because of the urgent need for increased proven
reserves and because of political constraints in Peru (para. 3.09). There
was a long history of close Government supervision of the power and
petroleum subsectors, and in the early 1980s, the political climate of
Peru would not have countenanced free-market reforms: deregulation of
petroleum prices, privatization of certain PETROPERU assets, opening of
all aspects of sector to private capital, and increased financial and
operational autonomy for PETROPERU. The subsequent technical financial
and operating performance of PETROPERU was below expectations.   To
establish the proper framework for recovery, those reforms are the central
objectives of a proposed Privatization Adjustment Loan.
8.          Domestic Petroleum Prices and PETROPERU Finances.   At
appraisal, the Bank conditioned loan approval to the implementation of an
agreed program to bring domestic petroleum prices in line with
international prices by the end of 1982.   Further,  it repeated the
financial covenants of an earlier loan (1806-PE) which established target
levels of financial performance for PETROPERU (debt-service coverage,
debt-equity and "quick" ratios)  (paras.  3.10-.12).   The Government
complied in substance with this program by January 1, 1983 and made a



- iv -
substantial effort thereafter to maintain petroleum product prices in line
with international comparators until 1985, when it abandoned this effort
altogether (paras. 2.18-2.21). The financial consequences for PETROPERU
during the balance of the decade were disastrous.   The Bank deferred
taking action until 1987, when it suspended disbursements on all loans to
Peru.
9.          During  1982-1986, the  expected  period  of project
implementation, the factors underlying the financial performance of
PETROPERU were so different from what had been expected that comparison of
summarized revenues and expenses is not a fully useful exercise.   For
this period, the actual summarized volume of domestic sales was 32% below
the expected level; PETROPERU'S summarized production was 11.5% less than
expected; and the summarized production of the foreign oil companies,
which was shared 50-50 with PETROPERU, was 18.7% less than expected. The
shortfall of production directly and adversely affected the financial
performance of PETROPERU.  Also adversely affecting its financial
performance were the declining trends of domestic product prices (after
1985), the increasing share of petroleum revenues taken by the Government,
and the decreasing level of export prices. These phenomena occurred in
circumstances of very high inflation (para. 6.01).  Also limiting the
usefulness of comparisons were changes in accounting principles after
appraisal to reflect more fully the impact of inflation. Comparison of
actual and forecast sources and applications of funds was not possible due
to lack of data (para. 6.03).  Comparison of covenanted and actual key
financial ratios was not always possible. PETROPERU was not in compliance
with these covenanted ratios (para. 6.05).
Proiect Issues.
10.         Proiect Management and Co-financing.   To avoid the delays
which plagued an earlier petroleum project, the Bank and PETROPERU agreed
that a special project unit (PPU) would supervise the operations of a
project management service company (PMSC), which would have day-to-day
responsibility  for implementing the project.   The Bank conditioned
effectiveness of the loan agreement to the proper staffing of the PPU and
the contracting of a suitable PMSC (para. 3.13-.16). Substantial delay
attended the selection of the PMSC, contributing to late loan effective-
ness (paras. 4.08-.09). The Bank was satisfied with the performance of
the PMSC (para. 8.16-.17); PETROPERU did not fully share this satisfaction
(para. 8.17, Part II, paras. 13-16, pp. 28-31).
11.         As part of a larger effort to assure adequate levels of
financing for the project, the Bank conditioned presentation of Loan 2195-
PE to its Board to satisfactory progress with respect to arrangements for
co-financing. During negotiations, the Government informed the Bank of
preliminary commitments for US$60 million from the import-export banks of
Japan and the United States.   The Bank accepted these commitments as
satisfactory progress; and the Board approved the loan (para. 3.17).
Subsequently, efforts to obtain co-financing from commercial banks were



not successful due to widespread reservations concerning the deteriorating
financial situation of Latin America and Peru (para. 4.05).
12.          rocurmont.  At appraisal, the procure_ent requirements of
the Bank were discussed and agreed upon with PETROPZRU (para. 3.18).
However, local procurement regulations proved to be cumbersome and a
source of delay (para. 4.12-.14).
ResultB.
13.         Reserves, Studies, Trainina. etc.  As measured by actual and
forecast increased proven reserves over the life of the project (13.5
million barrels of oil vs. almost 40 million barrels of oil), results were
marginal (para. 5.01). With Bank agreement, PETROPERU assumed the task of
studying adjacent fields for similar projects, as it felt the work of the
consultant was too general and too theoretical. The Bank had some reser-
vations about the studies carried out by PETROPERU (para. 5.02-.03). The
training component achieved its objective of strengthening PETROPZRU
(para. 5.04). Achievements with respect to other project objectives --
prompting rapid resource exploitation; promoting efficient resource man-
agment and realistic pricing policies; and attracting foreign investment
to the hydrocarbon sector -- were disappointing due to the macroeconomic
and sector policies of the Administration of President Alan Garcia (para.
5.05). Also disappointing was the return on the project. If taxes and
other revenue divisions (Government) are no deducted from the stream of
net benefits, the return on the project (economic) is 18.4%. The appraisal
estimate was 103%. If taxes and other revenue divisions are deducted from
the stream of net benefits (amounting to the appraisal estimate of 55%
annually), the return on the project is -9.4%. The appraisal estimate of
the return on the project (financial) was 35%. The lower levels of proven
reserves and petroleum prices (US$20/bbl. vs US$31/bbl.) is the cause of
the lower returns. PETROPERU calculated the net present value (financial)
of the project at US$15.3 million using a discount rate of 20%, but this
calculation, because its includes adjustments to the cost and benefit
streams for investment expenditures (only PETROPERU's), interest payments,
tax reductions related to depreciation, and loan amortization, does not
resemble the Bank calculation (para. 5.06 and Part II, p. 24).
Performance.
14.         Government and PETROPERU.  The performance of the Government
and PETROPERU were weak.    The macroeconomic, petroleum pricing, and
taxation policies of the Government were directly responsible for the
deteriorated financial and technical condition of PETROPERU and the non-
completion of certain project components. The dual (and contradictory)
roles of the Government as sector policy maker/regulator and
owner/operator of a revenue-earning enterprise explain the over-staffing
and low efficiency of PZTROPERU. The heavy administrative hand of a host
of Government agencies together with the complex administrative procedures
of PETROPERU materially delayed implementation. The Bank was satisfied



- vi -
with the performance of PETROPERU during project preparation and with the
performance of the PPU during the later stages of implementation (paras.
8.02-.08).
15.         The Bank.    The performance of the Bank was mixed -- strong
in some areas, weak and tentative in others. The Bank addressed the right
issues, sector and project, during appraisal; but during implementation,
the Bank was forbearing with respect to the failing financial performance
of PETROPERU. Given that suspension of disbursements is a drastic remedy
and given the Bank's objective of avoiding arrearage on the part of Peru,
it is understandable why the Bank hesitated before taking action; but its
forbearance did nothing to reinforce its credibility (para. 8.09-.15).
16.         Consultants.       The Bank was generally satisfied with the
work of the consultants, including the PMSC.   PETROPERU did not fully
share this sense of satisfaction (paras. 8.16-18; also Part II, paras. 13-
16, pp. 28-31).
Lessons to be Learned.
17.         There are six major lessons to be learned from this project:
(a) Major free-market reforms are necessary to put the sector on a sound
financial and technical basis; (b) domestic petroleum prices should be
kept in line with changes in international prices; (c) a firm commitment
of co-financing in the amounts necessary to complete the project should be
a condition for proceeding with the loan; (d) during appraisal, local pro-
curment laws and practices should be closely reviewed to identify possible
areas of conflict with Bank procurement guidelines. In the event of a con-
flict which cannot be resolved, the Bank should consider withdrawing from
the project; (e) the Bank should be prepared to suspend disbursements if
the need arises as a result of prolonged and serious non-compliance with
financial (and other) covenants; and (f) use of a project management com-
pany can be effective for reinforcing a borrower with a weak project-
implementation capacity (para. 9.01).



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Petroleum Production Enhancement Project
Borrower:         Petroleos del Peru (PETROPERU), S.A.1/
Loan Number:      2195-PE
Loan Amount:      US$81.20 million
Disbursed:        US$49.39 million
Canceled:         US$31.81 million
Loan Dates:       Approval: 08/10/82; Closing: 06/30/87;
Last Disbursement: 01/26/88
RVP Unit:         LAlEI
Country:          Peru
Sector:           Energy
Subsector:        Petroleum
2.          Background
2.01        Bank Lendina to the Enerav Sector.  Since 1960, the Bank has
made eight power loans to Peru amounting to US$222.2 million; and since
1980, the Bank has made three petroleum loans amounting to US$119.0
million (Part III, Table 1). The first petroleum loan, 1806-PE (US$32.50
million, 1980) helped the national petroleum company, Petroleos de Peru
(PETROPERU), S.A, to increase oil production from existing wells and
strengthen its institutional capabilities.   This project substantially
achieved its objectives and is considered a success.   The second loan
(2117-PE, US$5.30 million, 1982) helped to finance engineering studies of
the refinery operations of PETROPERU. The third loan 2195-PE (US$81.20
million, 1982) helped to finance the project which is the subject of this
PCR. As measured by the currently and formerly expected increases of
future production (13.5 million barrels vs. almost 40 million barrels),
the results of the project are marginal.
2.02        Sources and Reserves.  Peru has diverse and as yet largely
untapped energy resources consisting of hydroelectric power, crude oil,
coal, natural gas, some geothermal power, and renewable resources, such as
firewood and bagasse. These energy sources, commercial and non-commercial,
constitute the energy sector.   Commercial sources include petroleum,
hydro- electric power,  natural gas,  and other  (mostly coal).   The
Government has concentrated its efforts on developing the electric power
and petroleum subsectors.
I/    Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) also signed the Loan Agreement as financial
agent of the Guarantor, but played no role during project inplementation.



-2-
2.03        In 1988, total commercial energy uses in Peru amounted to 10.3
millions of tons of oil equivalent (TOE), of which petroleum accounted for
81% (about the same as in 1981) and electricity, 14%. Clearly, petroleum
is the dominant source of energy. Among total proven reserves for commer-
cial energy sources (407.8 M. TOE), petroleum accounted for only 14%;
hydroelectricity, 35%; natural gas, 40.6%: and coal, 10.4%.
2.04               Enerav Sector: Regulation.  The Ministry of Energy and
Mines (MEM) makes policy, coordinates all energy sector activities, and
regulates the energy sector, except for the functions of tariff setting
and budget approvals.   These functions are the responsibilities of,
respectively, the Ministry of Finances (MOF) and the National Development
Corporation (CONADE). Under MEM policy guidance, various bodies carry out
operational activities in their respective subsectors. PETROPERU is the
state oil monopoly, responsible for the petroleum subsector; Empresa
Electricidad del Peru, S.A. (ELECTROPERU) -- the national power company --
and associated electric utilities are responsible for the electric power
subsector.  There is a long history of close Government supervision of
both companies. In recent years, with respect to PETROPERU, the policy-
maker and regulatory role of the Government have conflicted with its role
as owner/operator of a revenue-earning entity (para. 2.07).
2.05               Petroleum Subsector: Oraanization. Established in 1969,
PETROPERU is the official body for conducting all government petroleum-
related activities, including: exploring, producing, transporting,
refining, exporting, importing, marketing, and contracting with private
oil companies. It has a virtual monopoly on the retail distribution of
petroleum products.   It owns a small fleet of petroleum tankers, plus
river transport facilities.
2.06        The Board of Directors sets policy which management, headed by
a General Manager, implements. The Chairman of the Board is the Executive
President.  Reporting to him is the General Manager who supervises key
managers in the areas of exploring, producing, refining, etc.
2.07        Besides being an integrated oil company, PETROPERU has been an
instrument of the Government for implementing public policy.   In this
latter role, PETROPERU has been (and is) the vehicle through which the
Government sets (and subsidizes) domestic petroleum product prices.
Managerial and financial autonomy is heavily constrained by Government
control re labor policies, pricing of refined products, procurement
procedures, operational and investment budgets, etc.
2.08        Subsector Crises.  The petroleum and electric subsectors are
in crisis, technical and financial. During the last half of the 1980s, in
circumstances of near civil war, worsening macroeconomic conditions (high
inflation, stagnating domestic investment, and recurrent balance-of-
payments crises), both subsectors experienced increasing financial
constraint due to low tariffs and prices, which in turn led to inadequate
levels of expenditure on maintenance and investment, deteriorated plant,



-3-
and declining levels of petroleum production and of service quality and
reliability (electricity).
2.09        For example, in 1982, petroleum production amounted to 195,000
barrels per day (bpd). Since 1985, no substantial exploration investments
have taken place, and petroleum production has declined to the present
level of 132,000 bpd (para. 2.22). This decline has been mainly due to
the aging of the fields, but is also due to poor conditions of field
equipment and installations and the inability of PETROPZRU to pay for the
exploration and development of new fields.
2.10        As set forth at greater length below, the financial and
technical crises of the petroleum subsector have their roots in the
macroeconomic and sector policies implemented by the Government during the
last decade and before.
2.11        Macroeconomic Policies.   During the twenty years ended in
1990, a succession of administrations, military and elected, carried out
an inward-looking growth strategy relying on nationalization, an array of
state economic controls, large public investments, rapidly growing state
enterprises, and mounting foreign debt. Together with adverse balance-of-
trade developments and natural disasters, the strategy resulted in a
failing, "stop-start" economic performance, unserviceable levels of
foreign debt, spiraling inflation, capital flight, and declining per-
capita income.   As part of a larger macroeconomic strategy,  the
administration of President Alan Garcia (1985-1990) froze and then lowered
the prices of petroleum products, thereby undermining the technical and
financial health of PETROPERU (paras. 2.08-.09).
2.12          At the time of project preparation and appraisal (1981-82),
the economic performance of Peru was approaching the end of one of its
"start" phases; implementation commenced (1983-1985) in a "stop" phase and
reached its peak in a short-lived "start" phase (1986-1987); and
terminated during a profound national depression (1988-1990).
2.13        In 1983, GDP plummeted by 12% and inflation doubled to 100-
plus percent in circumstances of recession abroad, expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies at home, plus serious natural disasters -- floods in the
north and drought in the mouth. In 1984-85, GDP recovered modestly (7.2%)
from the low of 1983 and cumulative inflation amounted to 446%. At the
same time, the servicing of foreign debt became a problem of such size
that the Government engaged in a policy of "undeclared arrears. In 1985-
90, the Garcia administration formalized the arrearag- policy of the prior
administration and resorted to an array of non-market mechanisms to
stimulate the economy, control inflation, and allocate goods and services.
These mechanisms ranged from subsidies, public spending, and tax relief to
administrative controls on prices, wages, interest rates, import tariffs,
and the structure of exchange rates. Central to this approach were the
beliefs that: (i) the economy could be managed and inflation controlled
through administrative fiat; and (ii) consumption demand could be fueled
by decreeing an increase in real wages, implementing temporary work



-4-
programs, and transferring disposable income from the public sector to the
private sector.  The latter would be effected by reducing taxes and public
sector prices and tariffs; and the resources underlying and financing this
strategy, it was expected, would be the reductions in payments on external
debts.   When the Government stopped servicing Bank debt,  the Bank
suspended (May 1987) disbursements on all of its loans to Peru.   The
suspension impacted adversely on project implementation (para. 4.06). A
short-lived consumption boom peaked in 1986 and ended in 1987.
2.14        Sector Issues: Energv Development Strategy.  At the beginning
of the 1980s, the stated energy development strategy of the Government
consisted of giving priority to accelerated petroleum exploitation and
development and expanded hydropower investment with pricing being the main
instrument for restraining demand and encouraging efficient use of fuel.
With respect to petroleum, the Government wanted to encourage private oil
companies, foreign or local, to take the lead in exploration activities
and to limit the drilling activities of PETROPERU to relatively less risky
activities. To this end, the Government adopted in 1980 tax provisions
("reinvestment tax credit") which generated an initially favorable
response on the part of the private oil companies.   In 1985, the
Government abrogated the "reinvestment tax credit", nationalized the
operations of a foreign oil company, and forced the renegotiation of the
contract of another foreign oil company.
2.15        During the years 1985-1990, the Government subordinated the
above energy strategy to the demands of its larger macroeconomic
objectives with disastrous consequences for the sector: declining
petroleum production  (para. 2.08), the decapitalization of PETROPERU,
thereby causing underinvestment and technical deterioration, and
decreasing participation on the part of foreign oil companies.
2.16         During the 1980s,  the participation of the foreign companies
fluctuated in response to: (a) their success or failure with respect to
exploration activities, (b) world-wide oil prices and market conditions,
and (c) the evolving legal, taxation, and contractual framework -- foreign
and national -- under which the companies operated.   Concerning the
national framework, the foreign oil companies were looking for stability
and competitiveness -- that is, they wanted the Government to stand by
its contractual commitments and to offer terms for exploration and
production which were competitive with worldwide norms.   Exploration
activity by foreign oil companies peaked in the early 1970s, declined
during the balance of the decade, recovered to a low peak in the early
1980s, and then trended downward during the balance of the decade.
Underlying this decreasing pattern of exploration activity were somewhat
disappointing discovery results in Peru, declining oil prices (especially
after 1985) due to a substantial easing of worldwide supply conditions,
and a less-than-fully competitive local framework.
2.17        As indicated by the decline of petroleum production since
1982, the Government adopted macroeconomic and petroleum-pricing policies
during the years 1985-1990 which were a disaster for the sector. Further,



-5-
the strategy of the earlier years -- reliance on PETROPERU and foreign oil
companies -- reflected a lack of clear guidelines on the roles of the
state (para. 3.12) and the foreign oil companies. Clearly, the strategy
did not promote significant and sustained participation by the latter. In
connection with a proposed privatization loan, the Bank is attempting to
persuade the Government to deregulate petroleum prices, open the sector to
free competition in all activities, privatize most or all of PETROPERU,
rationalize the operations of PETROPERU, and provide PETROPERU with a
large measure of autonomy.
2.18       Pricing and Taxation Policies. The Government uses pricing as
the main instrument for influencing the demand for petroleum products
(para. 2.14). In connection with a proposed privatization loan, the Bank
is seeking to persuade the Government that petroleum product prices should
be de-controlled in a competitive market, so that they would reflect
economic costs, i.e., international market prices.   Adjustment would
stimulate economic fuel use on the part of consumers. Clearly, this has
not been the case, although some administrations have made more effort to
correct distortions to the level and structure of prices than other
administrations.
2.19       From the early 1970s to 1976, the Government, to protect the
economy from the disruptive effects of rapidly rising prices in
international oil markets, held prices at artificially low levels.  As
this policy stimulated domestic consumption and put a strain on the
balance of payments, the Government, beginning in 1976, began introducing
price increases over the next seven years which brought the retail prices
for gasoline, diesel, and fuel oil close to and then above their
respective international comparators, while maintaining a subsidy for
domestic kerosene, as shown in Schedule I:
Schedule I
Domestic and Border Prices, 1982. 1983. 1985. 1988
Date: 01/82   Date: 02/83    Date: 01/85    Date: 07/88
Reg. Dom. Die- FueL Reg. Dom. Die- Fuel Reg. Dom. Die- Fuel Reg. Dom. Die- Fuel
Gas Ker. set Oit Gas Ker. set Oil  Gas Ker. set Oil  Gas Ker. set OiL
(in USS/gatton; stated in current prices)
Domestic .97 .24  .74 .49 1.09 .46 .93 .77 1.09 .52 .91 .76  .51 .11 .22 .18
BP*   .94 .96  .94 .58  .96 1.09 1.09 .58  .77 .82 .81 .66  .60 .55 .57 .36
Domes./ 103 25  79 84  113 42 85 133 142 63 112 115  85 20 39 50
BP (%)
*BP: Border price or international price.
2.20       When President Garcia took office in 1985, domestic petroleum
product prices had remained more or less steady as stated in current
prices expressed in US dollars during the preceding three years while
border prices had declined.  Beginning in August 1985, the Government
froze the prices of petroleum products in circumstances of rising
inflation, i.e., aggressively reduced prices in real terms as part of its



-6-
strategy for stimulating consumption (para. 2.14). Between December 1985
and August 1988, the price of gasoline declined 75%; domestic kerosene,
46%; diesel,  84%.   Part of the reduction reflected movement  in
international prices, but domestic prices remained well below their
border-price equivalent (see Schedule I).
2.21        Also distorting the level and structure of petroleum product
prices is the tax scheme, the "Impuesto Selectivo al Consumo" (ICS --
134%) applied to the net cost to PETROPERU. This scheme differs from the
general sales tax (14%) applied to other sectors of the economy.   In
connection with a proposed privatization loan (para. 2.17), the Bank is
seeking to persuade the Government to replace ICS with a tax system as
similar as possible to the general sales tax.
2.22        Physical and Operational Characteristics.   Current oil
production of 132,000 bpd comes from the two state companies: PETROPERU
(32%) and PETROMAR (16%), and the remainder is produced by two private
companies: OCCIDENTAL (47%) and OXY/BRIDAS (5%). While Peru is still at
present a marginal exporter, in 1988-90 it was a net importer.
Furthermore, imports of light petroleum products, to provide the required
mix for the national refineries, have already started, and were running at
about 20,000 bd in 1990. Despite a slight increase in production in the
near term, as a result of the planned emergency investments, further
decline of domestic production is likely to occur in the medium term.
3.          Preparation
3.01        Feasibility.  PETROPERU prepared the project with the help of
a private consulting firm which completed the first draft of the
feasibility study in early 1981. The project would aim at enhancing oil
reserves and production at the Laguna-Zapotal fields located on the north
west coast.   Owned by PETROPERU,  these fields formed part of the
production complex of the Talara region, which had a long production
history.   Despite the large number of wells already drilled,  it was
expected that a considerable volume of crude oil could still be recovered
from this area with little or no risk through the reactivation of old
wells, and by drilling additional infill wells to tap more effectively
known reservoirs.   Underlying this expectation was the assumption of
uniform distribution of fields and reservoirs.
3.02        Loan Processing Timetable.   A Bank mission identified the
project in May 1981. Relying on the final draft of the feasibility study,
the Bank carried out preparation (June 1981) and appraisal missions
(October 1981), identifying a number of difficult issues (paras. 3.09-.18)
requiring resolution prior to loan negotiations (June-July 1982) and board
approval (August 1982) (Part III, Table 2).
3.03        Obiectives.   The identification mission concluded that the
proposed project fitted well within the overall development strategy of
the Government for the energy sector (para. 2.14) and would provide an
opportunity for supporting a high-return, priority project, while



achieving further improvements in the operating efficiency and financial
performance of PETROPERU.   The project had two basic objectives:  (i)
increasing proven oil reserves and production and (ii) improving the
capability of PETROPERU to prepare and implement petroleum development
projects.   Other objectives associated with the project included:
supporting policies of efficient resource management and realistic
domestic petroleum pricing; maintaining Peru as a net petroleum exporter;
continuing to strengthen PETROPERU's ability to effectively carry out the
role assigned to it by the Government; and assisting the Government in its
efforts to attract foreign investment to the hydrocarbons sector.  The
conceptual foundation for the project was clear and consistent with Bank
objectives of supporting the petroleum sector policies of the Government.
The timing of the project was also appropriate because of the urgent need
to increase proven crude oil reserves and production and to improve
PETROPERU's technical and operational capabilities.
3.04        Description.   As initially defined in the Loan Agreement
(Schedule 2), the project comprised components for: (i) enhancement of
existing crude oil production capabilities (Part A); and (ii) technical
assistance and training (Part B). Part A included: drilling 159 new wells
and reactivating 76 existing wells; and acquiring drilling equipment and
materials,  surface production facilities,  and infrastructure.   Under
Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement, PETROPERU covenanted to employ a
project management service company to supervise implementation (paras.
3.13-.16). The enhancement component was expected to increase production
by about 40 million barrels over the life of the project (1983-2002).
Implementation was expected to take about four years: from July 1982 to
December 1986. Contracting for this component would be completed between
July 1982 and July 1983, including contracting the services of a project
management company  (August 1982)  (Part III, Table 3).   Shipment and
delivery of equipment, plus drilling/reactivation activity, would continue
to December 1986.
3.05        Infrastructure included lodging and office space for the staff
of both PETROPERU and the project management service company and storage
facilities for equipment. Equipment included: well completion material,
pumping equipment, and surface production facilities (flowlines,
separators, storage tanks, pumps, and related instrumentations).
3.06        Part B included:  (i) technical assistance in the form of
consultant services to study better ways for optimizing the exploitation
of the Laguna-Zapotal fields and to prepare production enhancement
projects in adjacent areas; and (ii) training. It was expected that the
contracting of consultancy services would be completed by December 1983.
PETROPERU would annually provide the Bank with an updated version of the
project feasibility report, as redefined through the studies mentioned
above. Also the Bank and PETROPERU would exchange views on these studies.
The terms of reference for consultants included the requirement for train-
ing PETROPERU staff assigned to work with them. Training would also be
made available to staff assigned to the special project unit and abroad.



-8-
3.07        Cost and Financing.  The total project cost was estimated at
US$240.0 million (including about US$24 million equivalent in local taxes
and duties), of which US$150.4 million (63%) would be foreign currency
costs. Including a front-end fee of US$1.2 million, total financing would
amount to US$241.2 million. Amounting to US$81.2 million, the Bank loan
would cover about one-third of the total estimated project cost, including
the front-end fee, and about 54% of the project foreign exchange costs.
Of the remaining US$160 million required financing, US$120 million would
come from cofinancing. Half of this cofinancing was expected to come in
the form of exports credits for equipment, spare parts and materials for
drilling and for other services needed by the project.  The balance of
cofinancing would be provided by commercial bank loans. PETROPERU would
provide the equivalent of US$40 million in local cost financing for the
project.
3.08        Issues.   In addition to such project issues as the scope,
content, timetable, economic justification, and cost of the project, Bank
staff focused on sectoral issues -- namely: domestic petroleum prices,
PETROPERU finances, and the dual roles of the Government as sector policy
maker/regulator and owner/operator of a revenue-earning enterprise.  It
also focused on other project issues: project management and organization,
cofinancing, and procurement.
Sectoral Issues.
3.09        Role of Government:  During appraisal, the Bank questioned the
dual roles of the Government as sector policy maker/ regulator and owner/
operator of PETROPERU, a revenue-earning enterprise for developing the
petroleum sector.   The Government used PETROPERU as an instrument for
implementing public policies which were sometimes at variance with the
revenue-earning objectives of the enterprise. The Government explained to
the Bank that the existing political environment in the country did not
permit a re-evaluation of the dual roles of the Government.   In
consideration of this criterium, the Bank did not seek a limitation or
clarification of the dual roles of the Government (paras. 2.04 & 2.07).
3.10        Domestic Petroleum Prices & PETROPERU Finances.  The level of
domestic petroleum prices was a key issue, affecting the financing
capacity of PETROPERU.   During project preparation, the financial
situation of PETROPERU in 1981 was of great concern to the Bank due to a
drastic reduction of Government equity contribution, the need to purchase
crude oil supplies at international prices from foreign contractors, and
the decline of petroleum production as a result of some technical
problems.   Preliminary financial projections indicated that without
measures to cope with its financial situation, PETROPERU would suffer
rising operating deficits over the decade and beyond.  To address this
problem, the Government agreed with the Bank on a financial recovery
program which would ensure progressive compliance with certain target
financial ratios agreed in connection with Loan 1806-PE.



- 9 -
3.11        The program included: (i) an increase in November 1981 of S/50
per gallon in the average price of controlled products; and (ii) periodic
price increases in 1982 totalling 25% in real terms. It was expected that
such increases would bring domestic prices of refined products to (or
close to) the international price, thus improving the level and structure
of domestic petroleum product prices.
3.12        Because restoring the financial health of PETROPERU was
important, the Bank conditioned negotiations to the implementation of
point (i) of the program mentioned above (para. 3.11) and the first steps
of point (ii).   By the time of Board approval, the average price of
petroleum products was US$30.70 per barrel. The Government confirmed its
intention to raise the domestic price of petroleum products to reach
international price levels by year end (US$34 per barrel) by a side letter
to Loan 2195-PE.2/  To restore the financial health of PETROPERU, the
Loan Agreement (LA) for Loan 2195-PE reaffirmed the financial targets
established in the LA for Loan 1806-PE: (i) debt-service coverage ratios
of 1.9X in 1982 and 2.OX in 1983 and subsequent years (Section 5.05); (ii)
ratios of current assets divided by current liabilities of 0.7, 0.9, and
1.0 in 1982, 1983, and 1984 and later years (Section 5.06); and (iii) debt
equity ratios of 70/30 in 1982 and 60/40 in 1983 and later years (Section
5.07). There was no covenant in the Guarantee Agreement committing the
Government to align domestic petroleum prices periodically with
international prices, but there was a covenant (Section 3.03) obligating
the Government to take all such action as required to permit PETROPERU to
meet the financial targets specified in the Loan Agreement.
Project Issues.
3.13        Proiect Management and organization.    The Petroleum
Production Rehabilitation Project (1806-PE), which preceded the proposed
project, experienced long implementation delays because of PETROPERU's
unwieldy organization, shortage of technical staff, frequent staff
changes, and disruptions caused by its reorganization -- in short, its
non-project specific organization. When it became apparent that special
implementation arrangements were necessary to carry out the project
successfully, the Bank recommended the establishment of an autonomous
project entity.  PETROPERU agreed but "...the scheme failed to achieve its
goal due mainly to difficulties derived from PETROPERU's reluctance to
delegate authority and to allocate resources to the project entity.'@/
3.14        To avoid future implementation delays under the proposed
project, PETROPERU proposed the creation of a special project unit
(PETROPERU Project Unit -- PPU) which would oversee the operations of the
project management service company (PMSC) (para. 3.04). Further, during
I/ The ftiles for Loan 2195-PE do not contain this document.
]/ Source: Prolect Performance Audit Report: Petroteun Production Rehabilitation Proiect, page 12,
paragraphs 40-42, (Report No. 7944, dated June 30, 1989)



- 10 -
appraisal, an action plan to minimize problems in the implementation of
the project was designed. The Bank agreed to these proposals.
3.15        The PPU was to be properly staffed and would be solely
responsible for supervising the PMSC, which would be contracted to
coordinate and supervise day-to-day project activities, including those to
be carried out by the drilling and well workover contractors. The PMSC
would prepare the detailed project work programs and budgets; prepare and
evaluate bids and recommend awards; and administer contracts on behalf of
PETROPERU for all equipment, materials and contractor services.   The
company would be hired under an incentive contract to make the project
more attractive.
3.16        Because of the importance  it attached to the proper
organization for project management, the Bank conditioned negotiations to
establishment of the PPU headed by a qualified manager and confirmation by
the PETROPERU Board of its intention to contract a PMSC.  Further, the
Bank conditioned loan effectiveness to the contracting of a PMSC
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.03 (a) and 7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement) (paras. 4.08-.09).
3.17        Cofinancina:  During project preparation, the Bank understood
that it would take time to mobilize the necessary amount of cofinancing
required for the project. However, it was agreed that once the project
was under way, and if similar projects for the over-all production
enhancement program emerged from the studies contemplated, it would be
easier to attract additional cofinancing, since some positive results
derived from the project would be available. It was then agreed that as
a condition of Board presentation satisfactory progress would be made for
cofinancing the project with other banks.   During negotiations,  the
Government informed the Bank, that there were preliminary commitments of
about US$60 million of credit cofinancing already approved by the export-
import banks of the United States and Japan.
3.18        Procurement:  The procurement requirements of the Bank were
discussed during appraisal and agreed upon with PETROPERU. This included
the contracts for drilling equipment, services for production and for
maintenance. Highly specialized services for well completions, recomple-
tions, workovers, and drilling were procured under limited international
tendering. The selection of the PMSC and the technical consultants were
to be effected following Bank guidelines for hiring consultants.
4.          Implementation
4.01        Actual and Forecast Cost.  According to PETROPERU, the actual
project cost was US$164.4 million as compared with the forecast cost of
US$241.2 million  (Part III, Table 4).   These values do not include
expenditures for an emergency repair component added to the project in
December 1983 (Part C, para. 4.18). Certain project components and their
costs, actual and forecast, are comparable (paras. 4.02-.03); however,
total actual and forecast costs are not fully comparable because: (i)



- 11 -
PETROPERU did not complete certain components for lack of adequate
financial resources; and (ii) actual proven recoverable reserves differed
from what had been expected (about 65.8% below the target level), making
the actual and expected projects quite different. (Because there is some
question abut the level of Bank disbursements in support of the project
-- para. 4.17-- the actual cost of the project may be US$0.56 million
higher than calculated by PETROPERU.)
4.02       The actual and forecast numbers of wells drilled and worked
over were roughly comparable -- (i) new wells, 161 and 159; and (ii) work-
overs, 51 and 76.  Also comparable was the actual and forecast work
carried out by the PMSC.  The same is true for "infrastructure".  But
except for surface facilities for production, expenditures for the other
elements of the project -- well completion materials and equipment and
consultant services -- were less than half of what had been expected.
These similarities and differences are not nearly so important as the
differences in assumptions and facts underlying actual and target levels
on proven recoverable reserves (para. 5.01).
4.03        Roughly comparable are the actual and forecast costs for
drilling services: US$98.2 million vs. US$136.0 million. The same is true
for the PMSC contract, US$17.9 million vs. US$16.1 million, and
infrastructure, US$7.8 million and US$7.9 million.  Not comparable were
actual and forecast expenditures for surface facilities for production,
US$8.3 million vs. US$4.5 million Also not comparable were expenditures
for materials and equipment: US$29.2 million vs. US$71.4 million; and
other consultancy services, US$1.8 million vs. US$4.2 million.
4.04        Sources of Financing.  The following table, which is based on
data supplied by PETROPERU, shows that Bank financing for the project
(US$42.1 million) was 48.2% less than expected while that of PETROPERU
(US$85.8 million) was 114.5% greater than expected and that from of co-
financiers (US$37.4 million) was 68.8% less than expected (also see Part
III, Table 4).
Schedule II
Actual and Forecast Financina Plan
Actual       Forecast  Percent (X)
Difference
Per-          Per-   from
Ahut cent      Amount cent  Forecast
Source      (USS M.)       (USS M.)
PETROPERU   85.8  52.2    40.0  17.0  114.5
1BRD*       42.1  25.6    81.2  33.0  -48.2
Co-fin nc ino   365   22.3    120 0  50 0   -_A8
Export credits 33.0  20.1    60.0  25.0  -45.0
Comnercial Bks. 0.0   0.0    60.0  25.0    NA
Other       3.5    2.2      0.0  0.0    NA
Jilla    164.4  100.0    241.2  100.0   -31 8
* Bank records Indicate disbursements supporting the project amounting to USS42.6 miliion (para. 4.17).



- 12 -
4.05        Despite informal contacts with several foreign banks,
PETROPERU was not able to secure commercial bank financing, mainly due to
the general apprehension on the part of those banks about lending to Peru.
Because of its harsh terms, PETROPERU rejected the financial proposal
(US$20 million) from a Japanese consortium to buy materials and equipment.
PETROPERU signed a credit agreement with the U.S. Eximbank for US$26.25
million, complemented by a loan (US$3.5 million) from a commercial bank
and the drilling contractor. Additionally, PETROPERU obtained approval to
draw US$25.0 million from a line of credit from Argentina to purchase
drilling materials and production equipment.
4.06        Timetable and Procurement.   The actual and forecast
implementation periods were, respectively, (i) August 1983-December 1989
(77 months); and (ii) August 1982-December 1986 (53 months) (Part III,
Table 3).   After a slow start due to various causes   -- delayed
effectiveness and a severe natural disaster (para. 4.07), financing
difficulties (para. 4.06), Government administrative constraints and
complex procurement procedures (para. 4.12-.13) -- considerable drilling
progress was made in 1986 and the first part of 1987.  After the Bank
suspended (May 1987) disbursements on all loans to Peru, PETROPERU carried
out the balance of the project at a very slow rate.
4.07        The project experienced a slow start due to:  (i) delayed
effectiveness of the loan agreement and (ii) heavy rains between January
1982 and July 1983 which caused great damage to the production
infrastructure of the entire Talara area.   The heavy rains required
PETROPERU to use most of its existing equipment for field repairs,
including the utilization of those materials already dedicated for the
Laguna-Zapotal project.
4.08        At the request of PETROPERU, the Bank postponed the deadline
for effectiveness to July 28, 1983 4/, almost a year after loan approval
(August 10, 1982) and seven months after the original deadline (December
20, 1982), to allow PETROPERU to negotiate its PMSC contract (which was
finally signed in September 1983) and in consideration of the flood-
devastated state of the oil fields of the Talara region. Hiring the PMSC
was the most important, but not the only, special condition for
effectiveness. Also contributing to delayed effectiveness was slow action
on the part of PETROPERU in: (a) hiring the technical consultants to
undertake studies to upgrade the production enhancement programs; and (b)
staffing the PPU (LA, Article VII, Section 7.01 (a), (b), and (c) ).
Because PETROPERU could not meet a covenanted financial target, the Bank
waived compliance, but this was not a source of delay (para. 4.10).
4.09        The selection of the PMSC was delayed about 10 months because
the invitation to submit proposals was made only after loan signature in
September 1982, and later the consulting firms requested additional time
to prepare their proposals. Of the six consulting firms, only three were
V Source: lank telex to PETROPERU, dated April 29, 1983.



-13 -
qualified and submitted price bids for their services. Having established
the PPU in June 1982, PETROPERU assigned five experienced engineers to the
PPU a year later. Later, following Bank recommendations, the selection of
five additional staff was accelerated, so that the PPU could be fully
staffed before the PMSC started operating in the field.
4.10        Since PETROPERU had been unable to comply with the financial
covenant requiring a quick ratio of 0.7 in 1982, the Bank waived this
covenant in order to declare the loan agreement to be effective.   The
actual ratio for operations in 1982 was 0.5.  The shortfall was due to
price and production declines and the growing reluctance of commercial
banks with respect to lending in Latin America 5/. (At negotiations, it
had been anticipated that borrowing from commercial banks would permit
conversion of some short-term debt into long-term debt.)
4.11        Financed by PETROPERU,  a drilling company with two rigs
commenced project operations in August 1983 under the direct supervision
of PETROPERU. The PMSC contract was signed in September 1983 and normal
operations started in March 1984, when the PMSC took over from PETROPERU.
The PMSC started work with a seven-months delay after contract signing
because of logistical problems caused by the heavy rains and procurement
problems related to the acquisition of vehicles, office space, and
communications facilities. By July 1984, ten wells had been drilled; by
February 1985, thirty-two wells had been drilled. It was not until the
end of 1985 that all drilling contracts were signed. This slow progress
was due to administrative, financing, and procurement problems.
4.12        Heavy administrative and procurement constraints imposed by
the Contraloria General, difficulties in obtaining non-Bank foreign
financing, and low levels of internally generated financial resources were
among the general factors for slow implementation. The protests of non-
selected firms were a cause of delay.   During the initial stages of
implementation staff of both the PMSC and PETROPERU did not have
experience with Bank procurement guidelines and this was a cause of delay.
In addition, PETROPERU procurement procedures were complicated, involving
many steps and requiring approvals from either CONADE, the Ministry of
Energy or the Contraloria General.
4.13        The emergency repair program offers a particular example of
the complexity of local procurement procedures.   To supervise the
contractor carrying out road repair work in the Talara area, PETROPERU
needed help from a consultancy firm.  This work was performed under a
schedule of working rates for service contracts that had to be approved by
Ministerial Resolution. For contracting purposes, the Talara oil field
area was subdivided into several zones, and the road repair work of each
zone constituted a separate contract. Contractors were invited to pre-
qualify, at which time they were ranked to become eligible for executing
one or more contracts. Awards of contracts were based on the lowest eval-
I/ Source: Internal Bank memo, dated July 28, 1983.



- 14 -
uated bids; however, PETROPERU retained the right to decide which contract
might be awarded to a particular firm, if such firm was low bidder on more
contracts than it had capacity to execute. Because of the complexity of
procurement procedures for road repair work, serious delays attended the
selection of the consultancy firm and the letting of the repair contracts.
4.14        While PETROPERU received bids from Argentina and US suppliers
for 180 mechanical pumps, the award to the lowest evaluated bidder was
complicated by the uncertainty of availability of financing from
commercial banks. PETROPERU awarded the contract for workover services to
a local private company. However, this company was not able to provide
the required bank guarantee before contract signature. As a result, and
after further delays, PETROPERU awarded the contract to another company.
4.15        During  1986 and the  first part of 1987,  the rate of
implementation became satisfactory -- that is, the number of rigs in
operation increased from two in 1985 to five in 1987; but after the loan
was closed (June 30, 1987), implementation proceeded at a slow rate until
December 1989.
4.16        Disbursement and Allocation.  Disbursement did not begin for
about a year after project approval. At the end of fiscal 1984, only 6%
of the proceeds had been disbursed, as compared to the appraisal forecast
of 29.6%. The pace of disbursements started to pick up as soon as the
consultants for design and supervision and the contractors for project
execution began working (Part III, Table 5).   In May 1987, the Bank
suspended disbursements on all loans to Peru because of debt service
arrears. The Bank did not extend the loan closing date beyond its original
deadline, June 30, 1987. The last disbursement was on January 26, 1988.
Due to the arrears in debt servicing and the lack of progress in
normalization of relation with Peru, the Bank decided to cancel the
undisbursed balance of the loan of US$ 31.8 million effective September
12, 1989.
4.17        According to PETROPERU, when disbursements stopped in 1988,
disbursements for Parts A and B of the project amounted to US$42.1
million, or 52% of the loan amount (Part III, Table 6).  Bank records
indicated a higher figure: uS$42.6 million, i.e., the sum of disburse-
ments in Categories 1-3 and 6-7.   The difference  (US$0.56 million)
reflects a differing understanding as to amounts disbursed for an
emergency repair component (Part C) added to the project in 1983 (para.
4.18). As outlined below, this component provided for equipment, some of
which was similar to that acquired under Part A (such as flow-lines --
para. 3.05); and this appears to the source of the difference. If PETRO-
PERU records are correct, disbursements for the emergency component
amounted to US$7.3 million. Bank records indicate a lower figure: US$6.8
million, i.e., the sum of disbursements in Categories 4 and 5.  Total
disbursements from Loan 2195-PE amounted to US$49.4 million.
4.18         In December  1983,  at the request of the Government and
PETROPERU, the Bank redefined the project to include an additional



- 15 -
component (Part C) for the emergency repair of flood-damaged roads and
infrastructure in the project area (para. 4.07).   The corresponding
reallocation (US$20.0 million) of loan proceeds was expected to cover the
cost of road repairs (200 kilometers), about 100 four-wheel drive and
other vehicles, earth-moving equipment and accessories, flow-lines, valves
and other supplies for the rehabilitation of crude oil production
facilities, and consultant services for design work and supervision. This
reallocation was part of a larger Emergency Program (also approved in
December 1983) including reallocations of other loans. Bank staff did not
recalculate the cost of the project to include Part C. The use of the
above amount was not expected to affect the normal initial project
implementation, as these funds were not expected to be needed until much
later. Further it was expected that these funds would be replaced by a B-
loan that was being prepared at the end of 1983 to complete the financing
package of the project. However, because of the poor economic situation
of the country, it became almost impossible for PETROPERU to obtain any
additional funds through cofinancing. Only US$6.8 million, according to
Bank records, was disbursed from Loan 2195-PE for the Emergency Program.
5.          Results
5.01        Recoverable Reserves.  Actual results, which are estimated at
13.5 million barrels of proven recoverable reserves, are below the
appraisal target of almost 40 million barrels over the life of the project
(1983-2002) (Part III, Table 7). The assumptions underlying the appraisal
target were not sustained under the project as completed, even though
PETROPERU drilled and worked over almost as many wells as expected (para.
4.02).  Of the additional production of 13.5 million barrels of proven
recoverable reserves, 11.6 million barrels are expected to come from new
wells and 1.9 million barrels from existing wells. PETROPERU increased
its proven recoverable reserves from the Laguna-Zapotal fields up to
approximately 55.5 million barrels.  The appraisal target of almost 40
million barrels was based on the assumption of uniform distribution of
fields and reservoirs.   This assumption was not sustained by what
happened.   The following table compares actual and forecast annual
production related to the project.



- 16 -
Schedule III
Actual and Forecast Annual Incremental Productlon
(in ofIlfone of bbl.)
Year        1983 1984 1985 190 111! t98  1982 1990 11 1 199Z I199
Production
Actual    0.01 0.44 1.40 2.07 2.43 1.66 1.39 1.04 0.75 0.51 0.44
Forecast   0.90 2.60 4.60 4.50 3.80 2.80 2.50 2.30 2.10 1.90 1.70
Percent tX)  - 99  -83  -70  -54  -36  -60  -44  -55  -64  -73  -74
Shortfall
from Fore.
Year        1994 1995 I   1W7 12111 2  20 2M1 ZDflZ Summr
Production
Actual     0.35 0.28 0.22 0.17 0.12 0.08 0.11  --   -    13.47
Forecast    1.50 1.40 1.20 1.20 1.00 1.00 0.90 0.80 0.70  39.40
Percent CX)  -77  -80  -82  -86  -88  -92  -88 NA  NA  -66
Shortfall
from Fore.
5.02        Studies.  The project included adequate financing to prepare
studies to increase production by implementing similar projects in areas
adjacent to Laguna-Zapotal. The PHSC made a quick evaluation of adjacent
areas identifying certain areas of high priority for the purpose of start-
ing additional studies for which data gathering were required. However,
because PETROPERU felt that it could do the work of the consultants which
was considered to be too general and theoretical, it decided to carry out
these studies with its own personnel (Part III, Table 7). The Bank agreed
with this approach.
5.03        PETROPERU continued work on the studies of areas adjacent to
Laguna-Zapotal, which war divided into two groups of fields: (i) El Alto,
which included the fields of Verde, Taiman and Central; and (ii) El Sur,
which included the fields of Carrizo, Carrizo Este and La Tuna. Studies
of these fields have been completed. The Bank had some reservations about
these studies.
5.04        Trainina Comoonent. Initially PETROPERU submitted to the Bank
a list of five professionals from the Talara area for training on a part
time basis to be provided by the technical consultants and the PMSC. Due
to Bank recommendations, younger and less experienced geologists and
petroleum engineers received additional training on a full basis with the
same companies. Two professionals received training at overseas locations
and the rest received their training through the PHSC.   This project
component achieved its objective of strengthening PETROPERU.
5.05        Other Results.   Other objectives included supporting
Government policies of: (i) rapid resource exploitation; (ii) efficient
resource management; (iii) realistic pricing of petroleum products; and
(iv) attracting foreign investment to the hydrocarbon sector. As shown
by: declining exploration activity by foreign oil companies (paras. 2.16-
.17); lowered prices for petroleum products (para. 2.20); falling
production and reserves (para. 2.22); and the shortfall with respect to



- 17 -
financing from commercial banks (para. 4.05), the project did not achieve
expected results.  This situation reflected the negative impact of the
macroeconomic and sector policies of the Administration of President Alan
Garcia.
5.06        Return on Proiect.  The return on the project was disappoint-
ing. If taxes and other revenue divisions (Government) are not deducted
from the stream of net benefits, the return on the project (economic) is
18.4%.  The appraisal estimate was 103%.   If taxes and other revenue
divisions are deducted from the stream of net benefits (amounting to the
appraisal estimate of 55% annually), the return on the project (financial)
is - 9.4%.   The appraisal estimate of the return on the project
(financial) was 35%. The lower levels of proven reserves and petroleum
prices (US$20/bbl. vs US$31/bbl.) are the causes of the lower returns.
PETROPERU calculated the net present value (financial) of the project at
US$15.3 million using a discount rate of 20%, but this calculation,
because it includes adjustments to the cost and benefit streams for
interest payments, tax benefits related to depreciation, loan repayments,
and disbursement of only its funds as the cost of the project, does not
resemble the Bank calculation (Part II, para. 1, p. 25).
6.          Financial Performance of PETROPERU
6.01        Actual and Forecast Data. 1982-1986.  An extended comparison
of the actual and forecast financial results is an exercise of limited
utility because the underlying expectations for the appraisal forecast
were materially contradicted by events. For example, for the period 1982-
1986, the original project implementation period, the volume of domestic
sales was 32.2% lower than expected (212 MBB vs. 281 MBB) (Part III, Table
8) primarily because of protracted domestic economic difficulties (para.
2.12). Due to reduced investment expenditure, both PETROPERU and the
foreign oil companies produced less oil than expected -- for PETROPERU,
11.5% less than expected (119 MBB vs. 107 MBB); for the foreign oil
companies, 18.7% less than expected (227.5 MBB vs. 270.1 MBB). Since the
foreign oil companies divided their production with PETROPERU on a 50-50
basis, their reduced production directly and adversely affected the
revenue of PETROPERU.
6.02        Also adversely affecting revenue were the: (i)  freezing (and
later downward trend) of domestic petroleum prices; (ii) downward trend of
world petroleum prices, and (iii) increasing share of petroleum revenues
taken by the Government. At appraisal it was expected that the average
revenue for domestic petroleum products would be US$37 bbl in 1983-1986,
that export prices would range upward from US$31 bbl to US$40.80 and that
the Government share of such revenue would amount to 47%. In 1984, 1985,
and 1986, average revenue for domestic petroleum products was,
respectively, US$32 bbl, US$37 bbl, and US$30.27 bbl; between 1982 and
1986, the average revenue for exports declined from US$31.77 bbl to
US$10.89 bbl and the Government share of domestic revenues rose from 56%
to 64%. Cumulative domestic inflation was far greater than expected --
3,363% vs. 440%. In other words, declining production, frozen domestic



- 18 -
prices (after 1985) in circumstances of accelerating inflation, decreasing
export prices, and the rising Government share of revenues provided
PETROPERU with revenues which did not cover costs, especially after 1985.
Based on the foregoing, it is easy to understand why actual and forecast
summarized revenues and operating costs for the years 1982-1986 --
respectively, US$4.7 billion vs US$8.0 billion and US$5.0 billion vs.
US$6.1 billion -- do not represent comparable operations (Part III, Table
9).
6.03        Factors limiting the utility of asset comparisons include a
change in revaluation practices. Prior to 1986, PETROPERU revalued its
assets annually only to the extent that there was a corresponding
revaluation of long-term debt to be repaid in foreign currency.  This
revaluation practice led to a significant undervaluation of assets and
understatement of depreciation expenses. To rectify such undervaluation
of assets and the understatement of depreciation expenses, in 1986,
PETROPERU, with Bank prompting, adopted new accounting procedures to take
account of domestic inflation on asset revaluation. These procedures were
retroactively applied to operations in 1985 but not prior years; these
procedures constituted a radical change from what was expected at
appraisal, thereby making comparison of actual and forecast balance sheets
not fully useful. Actual data is set forth in Part III, Table 9.
6.04        Prior to 1985, the audited financial statements did not
include sources and applications of funds or the schedules to permit their
approximation. In the course of supervision, Bank missions estimated that
PETROPERU invested a total of about US$694.8 million during the years
1982-1986, almost 57% less than what was expected at appraisal (US$1,613
million).   The missions also made estimates to compare actual and
covenanted financial ratios (see below).
6.05          As indicated by the schedule of actual and covenanted
financial ratios below, the financial situation of PETROPERU deteriorated
during project implementation:
Schedule IV*
1982     1983      1984     1985    1986
Act- Fore-  Act- Fore-  Act- Fore- Act- Fore- Act- Fore-
uat cast  ual cast  uat cast ual cast  ual cast
Debt-service coverage (x)  1.7  1.9  1.3 2.0  1.6  2.0  1.7 2.0  1.0 2.0
Quick ratio              .4  .9  .4  1.0  .5  1.0  .6  1.0  .8  1.0
Debt-equity ratio (x)  81/19 70/30 82/18 60/40 81/19 60/40 80/20 60/40 59/41 60/40
*t Sources: Project Performance Audit Report: Petroleun Production Rehabititation Project, p. 54.
(Report no. 7944, dated June 30, 1989).
6.06          The Bank reminded the Government of non-compliance on the
part of PETROPERU with respect to its covenanted financial performance,
but did not threaten suspension of disbursements in 1984-1986 due to
project and country considerations.   Bank files reflect no internal
discussion of  non-compliance or consideration of suspension prior to
1987.



- 19 -
6.07        About half of PETROPERU equity --which amounted to about
US$1.1 billion at the end of 1983 on revalued basis--was lost during the
three years from 1985 to 1988.   Net losses exceeded US$200 million
equivalent at the end of 1988. The continued drain of its resources led
to delays in paying its suppliers, to a reduction in the investment
program, and to the suspension of payments to the Central Bank on behalf
of its debt services.
6.08          Equity at the end of 1989 was a negative US$3.2 million and
preliminary estimates for 1990 show another loss of about US$800 million,
bringing the accumulate losses over the last three years to more than US$2
billion.
6.09        The cause underlying this dismal financial performance was
Government policy with respect to the level and structure of petroleum
product prices and the Government's share of petroleum revenues. Domestic
prices of nearly all petroleum products (gasoline, kerosene, and fuel oil)
are controlled by the Government, leaving only certain special products
(mainly lube oils) with uncontrolled prices. Therefore, price-controlled
products constitute nearly 95% of PETROPERU's domestic sales.   The
Government introduced a general price freeze in late 1985, and during the
subsequent years no adjustments were made on domestic petroleum products
process, despite inflation rates of over 300% annually over the same
period. During 1987, the price of gasoline was adjusted upwards by 51%,
but leaving the prices of other fuels unchanged.   Because of this
situation, PETROPERU's operating costs appear to be very high--in the
US$20 per barrel range--compared to those in Colombia, Ecuador, Argentina
and Brazil. However, the high inflation of Peru makes it very difficult
to make a definitive judgement on the issue. Besides these costs reflect
the imposed charges for maintenance of the infrastructure of the towns
where PETROPERU operates and the direct taxes paid to the Central
Government and the regional treasuries.
7.          Sustainabilitv
7.01        Since 1984, the financial performance of PETROPERU has been
deteriorating and this deterioration is continuing. Management inability
to cope with Government impositions have not been solved. At present, the
Government roles as policy maker, regulator, and shareholder of PETROPERU
are not clearly defined.  In connection with a proposed privatization
loan, the Bank is seeking to persuade the Government to increase the
administrative, operational, and financial autonomy of PETROPERU, to limit
its role to reviewing strategic plans within the framework of its larger
sector policy objectives, to deregulate prices within a competitive
environment, etc. (paras. 2.17; 2.21).
7.02        The hydrocarbon sector requires large size investments, and
there are associated technical risks involved.  Therefore, the present
lack of an adequate level of investment is a major issue that needs to be
properly addressed, if Peru is to continue to be an important crude oil
producer. Finally, due to the uncertainty of the level and timing of the



- 20 -
investment budget allocation by the Government, PETROPERU cannot optimize
its investments and continues to operate on a day-to-day basis, and is
unable to reduce its deficit and to increase its operating efficiency.
For all these reasons, no sustainability of the project can reasonably be
expected, unless important and radical changes occur in PETROPERU's
financial and management situation and/or appropriate measures are taken
by the Government to entice important participation of private capital in
the exploration, exploitation, refining and marketing of petroleum
resources in the country.
8.          Performance
8.01        Government Performance.  The performance of the Government was
weak, especially in the years 1985-1990.   The macroeconomic, petroleum
product pricing, and taxation policies of the Government were directly
responsible for the deteriorated financial and technical conditions of
PETROPERU (paras. 6.01; 6.04; 6.08) and the non-completion of certain
project components (paras. 4.01-02; 4.05). The contradictory roles of the
Government as sector policy maker, regulator, and owner/manager also
explain the over-staffing and low efficiency at PETROPERU (paras. 2.04,
2.07; 2.17; 6.08). With respect to procurement, serious delays occurred
due to the interference of non-selected private suppliers, Government
agencies (para. 4.12). The Government did not comply with its covenanted
obligations to provide PETROPERU with sufficient funds to complete the
project and to take such action as required to permit PETROPERU to comply
with its covenanted financial targets (para. 6.06 and Part III, Table 10).
It is also worth noting that the Government did not provide a consistent
and attractive framework for the operation of foreign oil companies (para.
2.17).
8.02        Borrower Performance.   The performance of PETROPERU was
financially and technically weak, although with respect to the project
there were some strong points  (paras.  8.06-.07).   Judgements on the
performance of PETROPERU have to take into account the fact that the
borrower operated under the very close supervision of a host of Government
agencies which imposed financial and operating policies which were highly
deleterious to PETROPERU.   Except for financial covenants,  PETROPERU
complied with its obligations under the loan agreement (Part III, Table
10).
8.03        With adequate Bank assistance, PETROPERU carried out project
preparation and design satisfactorily, but PETROPERU did not carry out the
project according to the expected timetable. For example, PETROPERU was
slow in complying with the main effectiveness condition (para. 4.08-.09
and its complex and time consuming procurement procedures delayed progress
(para. 4.12).   PPU staff were not familiar with Bank procurement
guidelines, which resulted in delays in the hiring of contractors and
consultants.   PETROPERU on some occasions was also reluctant to hire
consultants on the premise that it had the technical capability to
undertake the corresponding studies on its own.



- 21 -
8.04        The financial performance of PETROPERU was dismal due to the
pricing and taxation policies of the Government (para. 8.01).  Lack of
sufficient financial resources available to PETROPERU led to non-
completion of certain project components and to the deterioration of its
operating capabilities in both the downstream and upstream activities.
The poor financial performance,  high costs,  and low efficiency of
PETROPERU were (and are) tied to issues related to dual roles of the
Government as policy maker, sector regulator, and the owner/operator of
PETROPERU.
8.05        PETROPERU was  (and is) an inefficient high-cost producer.
There were (and are) excessive numbers of poorly-paid, lower-level staff
(7,100); and inadequate numbers of professionals (2,100).   Salaries of
management level staff and highly skilled and experienced staff were (and
are) much lower than those paid by the local petroleum industry.
8.06        The implementation of inflation accounting and stock-inventory
and budgeting procedures has improved the financial information system,
especially allowing a close follow-up of the economies and costs of the
project.   The planning capabilities of PETROPERU have also been
reinforced, and as result PETROPERU has elaborated a long term investment
plan. However, a considerable effort remains to be done to implement all
consultant recommendations.
8.07        The PPU acquired adequate competence and expertise to ensure
suitable evaluation and supervision capacity of the project.  This was
satisfactorily accomplished by the technical assistance component of the
project. Several engineers and technical staff received training abroad.
Foreign consultants have transferred to PETROPERU advanced technology --
e.g., reservoir engineering models.
8.08        The monthly and quarterly progress reports submitted by the
borrower, though submitted regularly, did not reflect the true financial
situation of PETROPERU.
8.09        The Bank.   The overall performance of the Bank was mixed --
strong on some points, tentative and weak on other points. At the time of
preparation, the Bank correctly highlighted the: (i) weak project-
execution capacity of PETROPERU (para. 3.13); (ii) need to improve the
financial performance of PETROPERU (para. 3.10); and (iii) institutional
shortcomings stemming from the dual roles of the Government as policy
maker, regulator, and owner/manager of an enterprise which was used to
execute public policy objectives at variance with its revenue-earning
objectives  (para.  3.09).   The Bank did not adequately highlight the
technical risks of the project, and with the gift of hindsight, the basis
for estimating proven recoverable reserves deserved more attention and a
wary eye (para. 5.01).
8.10        If it is clear that the Government was responsible for the
failing financial and technical performance of PETROPERU and the non-
completion of certain project components, it is not obvious whether the



- 22 -
Bank should have pursued at appraisal a clarification and/or limitation of
the dual roles of the Government with respect to PETROPERU. Lack of such
clarification was not perceived as a necessary condition for successful
project completion; and given the political climate in Peru in the early
19809, it is likely that clarification/limitation was not a feasible
objective.   Currently,  the Bank is seeking such clarification in
connection with a proposed petroleum privatization operation (para. 2.17).
8.11        The covenants related to improving financial performance and
improving project execution through establishment of the PPU, etc., were
appropriate (paras. 3.13-.16). In the opinion of the Bank, the PPU and
the PMSC performed as expected. As for the financial covenants, the Bank
relied upon the Government to implement pricing and taxing policies which
would assure the financial performance of PETROPERU (paras. 3.13-.16).
When this did not happen, the Bank drew the attention of the Government to
the financial losses of PETROPERU caused by the application of negative
pricing and taxation policies and the highly dangerous erosion of equity.
However, in consideration of country and project conditions, the Bank did
not threaten suspension of disbursements for non-compliance in 1984-1986
(para. 6.05).   In retrospect, forbearance did nothing to reinforce the
credibility of the Bank.
8.12        The Bank was strongly committed to assist Peru to achieve
fully its petroleum potential.   The Bank, PETROPERU and the Government
maintained an adequate relationship and a good understanding concerning
some of the constraints affecting the project.   The Bank provided
extensive technical support to analyze the causes of the Peruvian economic
crisis, and most importantly, to identify the steps required to curb
inflation and balance the external accounts. To sustain project momentum,
the Bank continued to finance most of the project components through
December 1987, almost eight months after the general suspension of all
loan disbursements to Peru, but without having received any payment on the
rapidly accumulating arrears.
8.13        Concerning procurement procedures, to avoid delays, the Bank
advised PETROPERU to convince the Government to approve direct contracts
with several contractors, even though these had not maintained their
original bid conditions. These awards had already been approved by the
Bank, and further delays in contracting services would result in
postponing revenues.  To avoid additional delays in procurement and to
start operations sooner, the Bank recommended that PETROPERU: (i) finance
with its own resources, or through the Eximbank loan, the drilling rigs
needed for the project; and (ii) later invite international bidding for
contracting the rigs to be financed by the Bank.
8.14        The number of Bank staff supervision missions appears to have
been insufficient for the complexity of the project (Part III, Table 11).
There were nine supervision missions, which resulted in an average of 1.5
missions per year. The major supervision weakness was the lack of more
decisive action on the financial issues of PETROPERU, and in some respects
to procurement, monitoring and supervision procedures, in spite of the



- 23 -
more than adequate attention paid in the field to technical matters. The
Bank only tried to speed-up project implementation, rather than to assess
PETROPERU's reasons for the delays and make the procurement process more
efficient.
8.15        The legal agreements and SAR were adequately prepared and
generally of a comprehensive nature. Supervision reports provided a good
and comprehensive picture of the technical matters concerning the project,
but not enough information in relation to the financial and institutional
aspects of PETROPERU.
8.16        Consultant Services.  Contractors, consultants and suppliers
both local and foreign, generally performed well. The PMSC terminated its
contract at the end of 1987, but PETROPERU hired 28 staff from the total
of 64 from this management company to help the PPU, thus allowing the unit
to continue running the project, albeit at a slower pace.
8.17        The PMSC completed the construction of offices and houses for
the staff,  and a warehouse with a good stock inventory system,  and
implemented a cost control system that has allowed a close follow-up of
the economies and costs of the project. The PMSC established a well-by-
well monitoring system of operations and an overall production and
reservoir pressure follow-up system which allowed design of measures to
reduce mechanical failure in the production equipment, thus avoiding high
levels of deferred production.   Delays in procurement of equipment and
services for drilling and workover of wells forced the PMSC to postpone
improvements in production from existing wells, and to give priority to
equipping new wells using equipment from old wells. In the opinion of Bank
Missions, the PMSC was very competent. In the opinion of PETROPERU, the
PMSC was insufficiently knowledgeable about procurement practices in Peru.
Further, PETROPERU found it legally impossible to delegate authority
completely to the PMSC for supervision of contractors (Part II, pp. 29-30,
para. 14).
8.18        In the opinion of the Bank, the engineering firm that was in
charge of updating reservoir performance did satisfactory work, especially
providing adequate data derived from the wells being drilled or workover
jobs done in old and new wells. Also this firm did quality control work
and proved to be efficient in providing satisfactory training to PPU
personnel in reservoir and production engineering. Cooperation between
the engineering firm and PPU was satisfactory. PETROPERU was marginally
pleased with the performance of the engineering firm (Part II, p. 29-30,
para. 14).
9.          Lessons to be Learned
9.01        The principal  lessons to be learned from this project
experience are:
(a)   The generally weak performances of PETROPERU and
the Government underline the need for reforms in the or-



- 24 -
ganization of the sector -- reforms aiming at deregulation of
prices, privatization of most or all of PETROPERU, opening the
sector to free competition, etc. These reforms are being
sought in connection with a proposed privatization loan
(para. 2.17).
(b) For a revenue-earning borrower in countries experiencing
high inflation, efforts to maintain prices should be continued
even after the prices are increased to an adequate level.
Accordingly, suitable measures, such as linking domestic
prices with international prices on a monthly basis, should be
included in the conditions of the loan (para. 3.10-.12).
(c) For countries which have weak macroeconomic situations
such as highly indebted countries, a firm commitment of
cofinancing should be a condition for proceeding with the loan
to assure viability and successful implementation of the
project.   Possibility of additional cofinancing currently
contemplated at negotiations, could diminish as the country's
economic situation deteriorates (paras. 3.19 & 4.04).
(d)   The Bank should devote special attention and make
continuous efforts to assist its borrowers in understanding
and using the Bank's procurement guidelines to eliminate
procurement delays, accelerate disbursements, and to improve
the implementation of the projects (para. 8.03).   A close
review of country laws, regulations and practices should be
made during appraisal to identify problem areas and to seek
their solution during loan negotiations.   In the event of
conflict between local laws, etc. and Bank procurement guide-
lines, the Bank should seek Government agreement to a waiver
of local laws with respect to the Bank-financed project. If no
such waiver is possible, the Bank should consider withdrawing
from the project.
(e) Although flexibility is needed for adapting financial
covenants to changing circumstances, the Bank should be ready
to suspend disbursements if the need arises (para. 8.11).
(f) When the borrower's capacity is insufficient to carry out
a project, the use of a project management service company
responsible for day-to-day operations can be very effective
and helpful to reinforce the Borrower's capacity.   This
approach can also be helpful to attract cofinanciers for such
a project (para. 8.17).



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Editor's Note: Set forth below are comments of borrower which have been
excerpted from the final project report. They have been edited to achieve
stylistic consistency with Part I.)
1.          Despite smaller reserves than assumed in the feasibility
study, the general delay experienced by the project as a result of
problems related to the major bidding items (e.g. drilling services) as
well as the difficulties that made it impossible to carry out the original
financing design, the project was still profitable for the Empresa,
reaching a net present value (NPV) at 20% of US$15,347,000 6/ and an
earnings/investment ratio of US$9.30 for every US$100 invested.
2.          Despite the negative factors indicated above, the two main
factors in the favorable financial outcome were lower investment (US$164.4
million versus US$244 million in the feasibility study) and lower
operating costs.
The lower investment figure resulted from the lower prices
obtained through international competitive bidding for the project, both
for petroleum services and for materials and equipment.
Lower operating costs resulted from an overall increase in
operational efficiency throughout the project, making it possible to
contain costs for pulling services, mechanical and production maintenance,
as well as the consumption of materials and spare parts.
3.          During project implementation, 161 new wells were drilled (10
in the Amotape reservoir, 133 in the Mogoll6n reservoir and 18 in the
Echinocyamus reservoir,  as against the 159 wells projected in the
feasibility study (23 in the Amotape, 109 in the Mogoll6n and 27 in the
Echinocyamus).
The smaller number of wells drilled in the Amotape and
Echinocyamus reservoirs compared to the feasibility study was due
exclusively to the recommendations based on the economic and technical
results achieved in those formations (low success factors).
4.          Under the project, a total of 80 wells were reconditioned (29
were new wells or recompletions and 51 existing wells or reactivations),
as against the 177 planned in the feasibility study (101 new wells and 76
existing wells).
W    See Attachment 1 to Part 11. UnLike the Bank, PETROPERU catculated the present value of the
project (financial) by making adjustments to the streams of costs and benefits for interest costs,
tax benefits related to depreciation, debt repayment, and disbursements of Its own funds only.



- 26 -
The lower number of workovers of existing wells was due to the
revaluation of the wells proposed in the feasibility study as results
became available, thereby eliminating those with less potential or higher
risk. The lower number of recompletions was due solely to the delay in
the project drilling program, which meant that in the third or fourth year
of operations (when funds from the financing were still available), many
of the new wells had high production rates as their primary objectives,
which prevented recompletions at more frequent intervals.
5.          As a result of the intense well drilling and reconditioning
program, there will be incremental production of 13,528,000 barrels up to
the economic limit, distributed as follows:
New wells                         11,625,000
Recompletions                        531,000
Workovers                          1,372.000
Total                             13,528,000
6.          Six years after project development began (1983-1989), it is
still feasible to continue well drilling and reconditioning, in the light
of an "individual or differential economy," i.e. without charging the
investments made in nonproductive facilities.
Thus, in accordance with the geological studies and reserves
estimated by this Commission, it was concluded that it is still feasible
to continue development of the area. Twenty-three feasible locations for
drilling have been identified, with a total of 2.27 million barrels of
reserves, in accordance with the following:
Formation                  No. Wells                    Location
Amotape                                 4              Area of well 2414E
Mogoll6n                               13              3 in Zapotal
10 in Organos Norte
Echinocyamus                            6              2 in Zapotal Sur
4 in Zapotal Norte
As regards reconditioning, 85 prospective wells have been
selected, 24 of which are existing wells (workovers) and 61 new wells
(recompletions), which would provide estimated reserves of 1.5 million
barrels.
7.          The results obtained to date suggest that infill drilling in
the Mogoll6n in the Zapotal field is highly risky, particularly between
existing wells that have been operating for some time, as this often leads
to rapid depletion in the block, which prevents the infill wells from
obtaining sufficient final recoveries to justify the investment.



- 27 -
Thus, of six infill wells drilled by the project, only one
(well 7131) was profitable (NPV = US$264 thousand); in the others, the
developed reserves were insufficient to justify drilling.
However, from the history of available production it is still
not clear whether the production of these wells represents only an
"acceleration of reserves" or in fact the mobilization of new reserves.
8.          Well drilling contracts on a per-foot basis led to a better
drilling yield than contracts based on a daily rate, in both terms of net
rate and total drilling (feet/hour), as well as in cost per foot drilled
(USS/foot).  Thus, in the Laguna Este area (Mogoll6n formation), a net
penetration of 20.05 feet/hour and a total penetration of 13.43 feet/hour
were achieved, which is higher than the results for contracts based on an
hourly rate, for which the respective figures were only 13.36 and 11.42
feet/hour for net penetration and total penetration. Similar results were
also obtained in the Zapotal area.
In terms of cost, the use of per-foot contracts led to a
favorable change in the cost per foot drilled, from US$62.61/foot (hourly
contract with Geosource at the start of the project) to US$34.90/foot
under the last per-foot drilling contract (Contract PER-LZ-020).
9.          The decrease in total deferred production, which fell from an
average of  1,000 BD at the start of 1984 (15% of field production) to
250 BD in 1989 (less than 5% of field production), is a result of the
combined effect of a series of improvements in operational administration
in the field, including:
(a)   Reformulation of the duties of the field production repair and
maintenance crews (recorredores) and mechanics, through
maintenance contracts, allowing the detection and timely
resolution of extraction problem;
(b)   Adjustment of the work schedule of the pumping units to the
real output capacity of the wells, through strict operational
controls using physical measurements (pressure and fluid
levels);
(c)   Permanent control of the handling of downhole materials
(tubing, rods and downhole pumps), in accordance with API
standards, by the transportation and well servicing companies;
(d)   Use of higher-grade metal spare parts for downhole pumps and
ongoing supervision of their repair in the shops; and
(e)   Statistical control of failure, for both downhole and surface
equipment, making it possible to detect repeated failures
and/or those with a strong impact on production.



- 28 -
10.         Following improvements in the extraction systems, pulling
requirements were gradually lowered from 5 servicings per well/year at the
start of 1984 to only 1.5 per well/year at the end of 1989 (two-thirds
reduction). Fishing for broken rods also fell, from 2.1 servicings per
well/year in 1984 to 0.5 per well/year in 1989. The cumulative effect was
a substantial decrease in operating costs and an improvement in the
overall financial position of the project.
11.         Another aspect that had a marked impact on the decrease in
deferred production was the solution to the problem of lost efficiency in
downhole pumping, by increasing the gas/liquid ratio (GLR). To solve this
problem, which is rather common in the area, a system was introduced to
recover associated gas as follows:
(a)   recovery of the gas and delivery to the combustible gas
system;
(b)   recovery of the gas for use in compressors; and
(c)   testing of beam-mounted gas compressor  (BMGC) systems
manufactured fully with materials recycled from operations.
All of this led to a substantial increase in pumping
efficiency, reducing typical fluid pound and gas lock problems. Likewise,
approximately 300 MCFD of gas was recovered, which had previously been
vented to atmosphere.
12.         The project's main surface facilities (three new batteries,
three remodeled batteries, one booster pumping plant, pipeline system, gas
flowline system, etc.) were designed in order to be simple, modern and at
the same time safe to operate and flexible in terms of the changes
inherent in a development project.  In addition, the overriding concern
was orderliness and cleanliness at all facilities.
The works were carried out gradually, reflecting steady
development in the field and growth in production, resulting in a
significant reduction in investment of some USS3 million compared to the
projections in the feasibility study.
The project moreover built a complex of administrative
facilities at the center of the field, consisting of offices, storehouses,
workshops and materials yard, along with a residential compound composed
of 36 single-family houses, quarters for unmarried personnel, social hall
and other facilities such as a raised cistern, power house, wastewater
treatment plant, etc.
13.         Administratively, the performance of PMSC was generally below
what PETROPERO could have expected from a private company of its class.
In relative terms, some of the weaker aspects were as follows:



- 29 -
(a)   PMSC took 48 days on average to evaluate a round of
international competitive bidding (period between opening of
bids and final recommendation), which was excessive.
Nevertheless, for the second bidding package (1985/1986), PMSC
took an average of 38 days for the same work, as compared with
56 days for the 1984 bidding, reflecting an improvement as the
project proceeded;
(b)   Delay in the implementation of the project's general cost
accounting system, which was introduced two years after the
start of the contract, making financial evaluation difficult
at the outset;
(c)   Programming and planning were deficient, and did not integrate
needs and requirements over time (PERT techniques); and
(d)   PMSC could have been more creative and dependable in favorably
resolving for PETROPERO certain bidding rounds such as PER-LZ-
001-84 (drilling services), which owing to its importance was
the backbone of the project. Ultimately, this meant a delay
in the drilling program.
PMSC performed better from a technical and operational
standpoint, its strong points being as follows:
(a)   Improved drilling efficiency in relation to historical
experience in the area, as a result of drilling with low-
weight mud and the use of contracts based on per-foot rates,
which provided an incentive to improve the drilling rate;
(b)   Substantial decrease in deferred production (see item 9 in
Conclusions);
(c)   Lower costs for drilling, priming, cementation, mud, etc. in
relation to historical costs in the area, as a result of
competitive bidding.  This, together with a lower cost for
materials and equipment, reduced project costs by some US$80
million;
(d)   Installation of modern, simple and safe batteries and other
production facilities, using all available technological
advances for efficient separation and treatment of crude; and
(e)   Optimal use of combustible gas and solution of the problem of
high GLR for downhole pumping, through the installation of
low-pressure gas rings.
14.         The project consultant did not  fully meet PETROPERO's
expectations.   Some aspects,  nevertheless,  were sound,  such as the
following:



- 30 -
(a)   determination of the best spacing in the Mogoll6n for starting
production, in accordance with the characteristics of the
reservoir, using porosity profiles (CNL and FDC), gamma rays
and induction, measured using core analyses;
(b)   financial  analysis using a Monte Carlo probabilistic
simulation;
(C)   evaluation of cementing operations, for which a specialist was
kept in the area for field evaluation, whose final
recommendations were for a substantial reduction in cementing
additives and thus in costs;
(d)   training of PETROPERU technicians in both Talara and France.
15.         The experience accumulated over the six years of the project
shows that there are insufficient technical, operational, administrative
and financial reasons for retaining a private management company for a
petroleum development project on the lines of Laguna-Zapotal. This point
of view in based on the following:
(a)   From the technical and operational standpoints, since this was
a development project, there is sufficient experience
available locally, which means that a foreign management
company need not be hired, as might have been the case for
projects of broader technical scope, such as secondary or
tertiary recovery;
(b)   Administratively, because in general private companies have
little or no experience in managing the complex competitive
bidding processes typical of the public sector, which
necessarily had to be used for the project, since the
investment used public resources.   This situation was even
further complicated by the fact that a foreign company such as
PMSC began to gain familiarity with PETROPERO's procedures and
the country's legislation only after it became involved in the
project;
(C)   Strictly speaking, there cannot be a management company on the
lines of PMSC with all the prerogatives that implies, as all
its actions are contingent on the final decision of PPA,
which was the ultimate manager of the project, as it carried
full responsibility for its decisions. In practice, PMSC was
responsible only for technical and administrative management
on behalf of PETROPERO, but was not empowered to make final
decisions regarding the project (see chapter on
Administration); and
(d)   From a financial standpoint, the use of PMSC was instead an
additional cost to the project, accounting for more than 10%
of the total investment.



- 31 -
16.         In view of the foregoing, a project such as Laguna-Zapotal
should be managed by a decentralized entity with broad decisionmaking and
approval powers, attached directly to the general management, but without
the involvement of a private management  company.   In any event,  a
technical advisory company could be brought in, depending on the technical
difficulties involved in each specific project.
17.         The main administrative difficulties faced by the project were
basically as follows:
(a)   Impossibility of carrying out the original financing program
for the project, which included cofinancing from private banks
(with the World Bank as guarantor), in addition to funding
from the World Bank, the Linea Argentina and Eximbank;
(b)   Limited decisionmaking and approval powers of the PETROPERO
Project Unit (UPP), despite the scope and importance of the
project;
(c)   Insufficient organization on the part of the UPP to carry out
administrative and legal tasks in particular;
(d)   Slow adaptation by the petroleum services company (PSC) to
PETROPERU's administrative systems and the country's
legislation;
(e)   Lack of planning from the outset of the project.  When PSC
officially began its contract, two drilling outfits had
already been operating in the area for seven months and their
contracts and method of operation (hourly rate) did not come
under the responsibility of the PSC.
This situation also impeded proper planning, since PSC was
pressured to obtain materials (casing, tubing, pumping units,
etc.) at the start, when it had only recently begun to become
familiar with the competitive bidding processes; and
(f)   Elements and factors external to the project,  such as the
involvement of the Office of the Comptroller in Call for Bids
PER-LZ-001-84 (for drilling equipment), which was finally
declared unsuccessful and affected the project's drilling
program.
Another external factor that had a significant impact on the
project was the suspension of World Bank disbursements as a
result of the country's economic and financial situation.



-32-
Part II
Attachment 1
Net Present Worth of Petroleu Enhancement Project as Calculated by PETROPERU
(1)    (2)    (3)    (4)    (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)   (11)   (12)   (13)   (14)   (15)
(1*2)                              (3-(4+5+6+7)   (8*9) (8-9)  (5*1-.55)              (3-(4+5)-10-(14+5))
Net
Net                   Inc.
Inc.    Inc.                       Income                After-         Aaor-
Price  Rev-   Oper.   Fin. Deprecfation  Before                    Tax  Salvage tiza- Invest-  Not
Produc-  Per   *nuee  Costs   Exp. Intang. Tang.  Taxes           Taxes   Rev. Value  tion   ment   Cash
tfon   Barrel  (USS   CUSS   (USS   CUSS   (USM   CUSS   Tax    (USS   (USS   (USS   (USS  (UUS    Flow
Year     (000)  CUSS)   000)   000)   000)   000)   000)   000)   Rate   000)   000)   000)   000)   000)  (USS)
1983    11.41  23.00    262       0    107   7637       4  -7485   0.55  -4117  -3368       0       0   3431    841
1984   439.68  23.00  10113    647    794  24202    539 -16069   0.55  -8838  -7231         0       0  23858  -6348
1985   1403.5  24.00  33685   2679   1116  20270   2354   7266   0.55   3996   3270         0       0  11269  14625
1986   2066.9  21.50  44439   5124   1911  34115   4272   -983   0.40   -393   -590         0       0  20433  17364
1987   2428.4  20.00  48569   4836   5420  24962   6956   6395   0.35   2238   4156         0   3924  16618  15533
1988   1661.5  19.00  31569   4331   7838   6149   4815   8436   0.35   2953   5483         0   7389   6072   2986
1989   1385.1  17.20  23824   5671   7647   4267   3929   2310   0.35    808   1501         0   7978   4128  -2408
1990   1043.0  19.80  20653   3875   6768            3163   6847   0.35   2396   4450       0   8218       0   -605
1991   748.41  19.80  14819   3782   5848            2452   2736   0.35    958   1779        0   7837      0  -3606
1992   568.07  19.80  11248   3588   4977            2015    668   0.35    234    434        0   7547      0  -5098
1993   442.59  19.80   8763   3376   4085            1716   -414   0.35   -145   -269        0   7126      0  -5679
1994   351.34  19.80   6957   3139   3238            1506   -926   0.35   -324   -602        0   7126      0  -6222
1995   278.01  19.80   5505   2878   2464            1301  -1138   0.35   -398   -740       0   7126       0  -6565
1996   217.29  19.80   4302   2490   1615             742   -545   0.35   -191   -354       0   4233       0  -3846
1997   167.36  19.80   3314   2074   1135             630   -526   0.35   -184   -342       0   3565       0  -3276
1998   122.66  19.80   2429   1621    714             535   -441   0.35   -154   -287       0   3266       0  -3018
1999    81.41  19.80   1612   1076    306             431   -201   0.35    -70   -131        0   3266      0  -2965
2000   111.15  19.80   2201    781                   1841   -421   0.35   -148   -274   3605               0   5172
13528        274262  51968  55982 121602  39202                   -1379   6887                 85809   6887
Dlscoumt Rate MX) and Net Present Value:       0.1 18369.
Discount Rate CX) and Net Present Value:       0.2 15347.



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2195-PE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Loan                         Purpose               Approval       Status
a.  Petroleum Production   Rehabilitate existing wells,         1980      Completed
Rehabilitation Project      reactivate abandoned wells,                   August 31,
(Loan 1806-PE; US$32.50    develop new production                         1985.
million)                    potential, and preparation of
a secondary recovery project.
b.  Petroleum Refineries   Provide consultant and                1982     Completed
Engineering Project (Loan  technical services and                         August 12,
2117-PE; US$5.30 million)  training to improve                            1988.
efficiency of refinery
operations, as well as other
petroleum industrial plants.
c.  Petroleum Production   Increase proven oil reserves          1982     Completed
Enhancement Project (Loan  at the Laguna-Zapotal fields                   December
2195-PE; US$81.20           and improve the capability of                 1989.
million)                    PETROPERU to prepare and
implement petroleum
development projects.



- 34 -
Table 2: Loan Processina Timetable
Date              Date               Date
Item                 Planned           Revised             Actual
-  Identification                                                    10/23/80
-  Preparation                                                       06/30/81
(Preappraisal)
-  Appraisal Mission            10/15/91                             10/20/81
-  Negotiations                02/15/82                              07/02/82
-  Board Approval              03/15/82                              08/10/82
-  Signature                                                         09/17/82
-  Effectiveness                12/20/82          07/28/83           07/28/83
-  Loan Closing                06/30/87                              06/30/87
-  Last Disbursements                                                01/26/89
-  Cancellation                                                      08/23/89



- 35 -
Table 3: Actual and Forecast Proiect Timetable
Date                   Date
Item                      Planned                 Actual
1. Enhancement of Existing Production
(a)  Signing of PMSC contract                 08/82    03/83
(b)  Effectiveness of PMSC contract           09/82    07/83
(03/84: PMSC takes over
operations.
(c)  Signing of contract for PMSC             07/82    04/84
residential and office space,
storage facilities, etc.
(d)  Completion of construction of            12/83    05/85
facilities under (c).
(e) Signing of contracts for:
(i) drilling services, and               12/82    07/83
(ii) well services                        12/82    07/84
(f)  Completion of mobilization under         01/83    06/85
(e,i)
(g)  Placing of equipment orders              07/83    06/84 (E)
2.  Consultancv Services and Trainincs
(a)  Staffing of PPU                          08/82    08/82
(b)  Selection of consultants to              08/82    07/83 (contract signing)
help PPU
(c)  Completion of feasibility studies        12/83     12/83
(03/84: studies of adjacent
areas)



- 36 -
TabLe 4: ActuaL and Forecast Cost
and Sources of Financing
Page 1 of 2 pages
Per-
Categories                     ActuaL                   Forecast           cent (X)
------- ------------------------  --------------------    ----------------------  Diff.
For-                     For-                    from
eign  Local  TotaL       eign   Local   TotaL   Fore-
Cost   Cost   Cost       Cost    Cost    Cost   cast
1. Production Enhancement             Una-    M       ==a.      a..-  ss..       a=s2 _______
in USt millions, reflecting current prices )
(a) Infrastructure                  0.0    7.8    7.8         3.8     4.1      7.9      -0.7
(b) WeLl cowpletion materiaLs      14.4   14.8   29.2        41.0    30.4    71.4      -59.1
A pWuing equipment
(c) Surface facilities for          4.1    4.2    8.3         3.1     1.4      4.5      83.4
production
(d) Drilling services              43.2   55.0   98.2        84.3    51.7   136.0      -27.8
Infrastructure
(e) Project management contract   17.9    0.0   17.9         14.7     1.4    16.1       11.1
Zx=x=ZZ===zz=C=Zxwr=Z==ZZ=w=   zz===   3=3=   ====           ====    ====    ====        ==
Sub-totaL               79.6   81.8  161.4      146.9    89.0   235.8       -31.6
2. Consultancy services
(a) Studies                         1.1    0.6    1.6         2.3     0.4      2.7     -40.7
(b) Training                        0.2    0.0    0.2         1.2     0.3      1.4     -89.0
-=3=3=3s3o=====33==3333s3=333xN    Manz   == 3     ===       =3=m    Zama    =3Z=       3=3=
Sub-total                1.2    0.6    1.8        3.5      0.6     4.2      -57.3
Total Project Cost           80.8   82.4  163.2       150.4    89.6   240.0      -32.0
3. Front-end fee on Bank loan           1.2    0.0    1.2        1.2      0.0     1.2        0.0
Project Cost plus Front-End Fee        82.0   82.4  164.4      151.6    89.6   241.2       -31.9



- 37 -
Table 4 (Cont'd.1
Page 2 of 2
Source             Aareement         Revised           Final
(USS million)    (USS million)    (US$ million)     t
IBRD                         81.2                            42.1          26%
Co-financing
Export Credits          60.0                           33.0          20%
Commercial Bank         60.0
Domestic
PETROPERU               40.0                           85.8          52%
Others                                                  3.5           2%
TOTAL                  241.2                           164.4        100%
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------_
Comments:  The amount of IBRD financing, USS 42.1 million, excludes the amount (USS
7.3 million) reallocated and disbursed to finance the foreign component of an
emergency program aiming at repairing flood damages in the Talara area.



-38-
Table 5: Actual and Forecast
Disbursant Timtable
Actual as
a Percent (X)
Date              Actual               Forecast        of Forecast
.........   ................. ..    -----------        ---- -------
Cuo-                 Cuo-
Annual   lative      Ar,uAL    Lative
(     -   In US$ miltions    -     )
06/3/83          1.2      1.2         13.1     13.1              9.2
06/3/84          3.7      4.9         11.2     24.3             20.1
06/3/85          5.4     10.3         21.7     46.0             22.4
06/3/86         19.8    30.1          24.5     70.5             42.7
06/3/87         17.6     47.7         10.7     81.2             58.8
06/3/88          1.7    49.4          ---      81.2             60.8



- 39 -
Table 6: Actual, Revised, awd Forecast
Allocation of Loan Proceed.
Page 1 of 3 pages
Col. a     Col. b     Col. c      Col. d       Col. e
Original   Revised 1/ Actual 2/  Actual 3/   Difference
(per LA*)             (per Bank   (per         (Col. d
records)     PETRO-      mirns
PERU)      Col. c)
Category (Parts A & B)
1. Services for drilling                       S62,000    S42,000    S26,611        26315         -296
2. Services for project management               14,000     15.000     13,407       13407             0
3. Consultant fees: studies & training           3,000       4,000       1,401       1134          -267
6. Front-end fee                                  1,200      1,200      1,200        1200             0
7. Unallocated                                   1.000       2.700
81.200     64U900     42,619      42,056          -563
Category (Part C)
4. Civil works for repair to infrastructure                  5,000      2.267        NA           kA
5. Equipment, mterials, & supplies                          11,300      4.506        KA           kA
for repairs to infrastructure                          ---------  ---------  ---------   ----------
16.300      6m773      7,336           563
Total             81,200      81.200     49.392      49,392
LA: Loan Agreement
1/ Bank letter of February 24. 1983 reflects
modification of allocation of loan proceeds
(USS20 million) to reconstruct infrastructure
and productive facilities damaged by floods of
1982-1983.
2/ Actual and forecast closing dates were June 30.
1987. Last disbusement occurred On January 26.
1988. Bank cancelled remaining balance of loan
in 1989.
3/ Pertains to Parts A & B only. PETROPERU provided
no data on disbursements for Part C.



- 40 -
Table  6  (Cont'd.)
Page 2 of 3
PazroleOs del Peru S.A
P,oWec.o Lagua-Zapatal
I N V E R S  4 N  -  F I N A N C I A C I 0 N
(En MUs Corrientes)
UTLIZACION CREDITO BIRF
R           U  3  R    SAcum. a1
1983    1984    190   1996    1987    1988          1989   31-12-F9
SERVICIOS DE PERFORACI0N
Equipos de Georce 
Equipos Contratados      1-18    2042                                         369      I99      3,689
Pertilaie Pozo Abierto                     172      436      977     263                        1,74a
Ingenioria de Lodos                                 152      178       a                          330
Lcdas de Psrforacion                              1,122      327        a                       18a49
Control Goologico                                              5      9n                          198
0     172   1,611    2S85    24W         36       19e      7,797
SERVICIOS DE COIMPLETACION
Equipas Ccntratados                                          661      279                         944
Cosntacion                                 168   1,181    2;3        717                       4,383
Estimulacion                                      1,259    382    1771                          6,832
Perfila,s Pozo Entubado                     44      111      344     13!                          634
Punzaao                                    16!      321      739     291                        14546
Otros Servicios Esecialns                                     26      99                          276
Sub-Total                  a     329   2, 872     977    3273         J        1    14.611
SERVICI'OS RETRA3AJOS
Euiujos Cotcntratados                                        za1      1i2                         413
Commntacian                                          11       17       4
Estinuiac:cn                                        90a    18        5- '36
Par'i; a.  Pozo Entubadc                             4a       2a       7                           73
Punzado *                                           192      162      53                          487
0Otros Sorvicios Eswecia;es                         2B7     829        a
Sub-Total                  a       a   1,436    1:e^9      7;2        3        a     3,997



-41 -
Table  6  (Cont'd.)
Page 3 of 3
Pgtroleos dtl Peru S.A.                                                               2 da 2
Projcrto Launa-Zaotal
I N V E R S I 4 N  -F I N A N C I A C I O N
(En WI Corrientu)
UTI'LIZAC:ON CREDITO BIRF
R  U  B  R O   S                                                                       Acuo. al
1993    1984    1985    1986    1987    19      1989   31-12-99
SERVICIOS PROOUCCION Y APOYO
Estudios Especialus                                       III     31                        142
Sub-Total                                       I I  111  31     a       a        142
ADM1INISTRACION Y FACILIDADES
Cia. Servicias Putralaros        778   2,919   3.3T3   3,159   3,478                     13,487
Consultorn Tncnicos              166      53     319      169     146                       835
Hovrarics Banco .'Iundial      1,289                                a                     1.291
Entrenauiento UPP                         16      2        78      35                       157
Sub-Total            2,144   2,M99   3,411   3,397   3,659        I       a    15,599
TOTAL              2,144   3,'49   9,3:9  .6,399  18,99      3-6      188    42,056



- 42 -
Table 7: Proiect Results and Net Present Value
Page 1 of  3
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal                    Estimated at Full
Indlcators                         Estimate                        DeveloDment
increase of Production       40 million barrel      13.5 million barrels
of Crude Oil
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------_
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                    Actual
Estimate               (At Final Development)
Economic
Rate of Return                     103%                          18.4% (see p. 44)
Underlving AssumDtions
1.   At appraisal incremental it was assumed that the Project would increase
the production of crude oil by 40 million barrels in the entire project
life, however, now it is estimated that it will increase the production
of crude oil by 13.5 million barrels.
2.   At appraisal crude oil price was assumed to be USS 31 per barrel, but the
price turned out to be between USS 17 and USS 23 from 1983 to 1990, and
it is assumed that the price will be USS 21.94 from 1991 through 2000.
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------_
C. Studies
Impact of
PurDoSe as defined at Aporaisal    Status              Study
1       Updating of the    Completed in           Significant modifi-
Project feasi-     December  1983        cation in drilling,
bility study                             completion, and
productivity of
wells
2       Study on the      Completed in            No significant impact
appropriateness   July 1984              on the improvement of
of the existing                          the well space
well space
3       Feasibility       Completed in            PETROPERU proceeded to
study on the     March 1985              detailed feasibility
development                              study for two areas
of the adjacent                          (El Alto and Carrizo-
fields.                                  Merino-La Tuna) which
the consultants recom-



- 43 -
Table 7 ICont'd.1
Page 2 of 3
mended ac promising
area. These projects
have been implemented.
Comoents:   PZTROPERU estimated that the studies were so general and purely
theoretlcal that they did not satlsfied Its expectation.



Table 7 (Cont'd.)
Page 3 of 3
Attachment 1
Internel Rate of Return on Investment
(1)    (2)    (3)    (4)    (5)    (6)    (7)    (8)    (9)   (10)   (11)   (12)   (13)   (14)   (15)
(1*2)                              (3-(4+5+6+7)   (8*9) (8-9)  (5*1-.55)               (3-(4+5)-10-(14+5))
Met
met                   Inc.
Barrels         Inc.    Inc.                        Income               After-          Amor-
of    Price  Rev-   Oper.   Ffn. Depreciation  Before                     Tax  Salvage tiza- Invest-  Net
Produc-  Per   enues  Coats   Exp. Intang. Tang.  Taxes            Taxes   Rev.  Value  tion  ment   Cash
tion   Barrel  (USS   (USS   (US#   (USS   (US#   (USS   Tax    (USS   (US$   (USS   (USS  (USS   Flow
Year     (000)  (US#)   000)   000)   000)   000)   000)   000)   Rate   000)   000)   000)   000)   000)  (USS)
1983    11.41 23.00    262        0       0      0      0    262   0.00        0    262       0      0   8202  -7940
1984   439.68  23.00  10113    647        0      0      0   9466   0.00        0   9466       0      0  32351 -22885
1985   1403.5  24.00  33685   2679        0      0      0  31006   0.00        0  31006       0      0  27000   4006
1986   2066.9  21.50  44439   5124        0      0      0  39315   0.00        0  39315       0      0  45469  -6154
1987   2428.4  20.00  48569   4836        0      0      0  43733   0.00       .0  43733       0      0  37718   6015
1988   1661.5  19.00  31569   4331        0      0      0  27238   0.00        0  27238       0      0   8644  18594
1989   1385.1  17.20  23824   5671        0      0      0  18153   0.00        0  18153       0      0   5025  13128
1990   1043.0  19.80  20653   3875        0      0      0  16778   0.00        0  16778       0      0      0  16778
1991   748.41  19.80  14819   3782        0      0      0  11037   0.00        0  11037       0      0      0  11037
1992  568.07  19.80  11248   3588         0      0       0   7660   0.00       0   7660       0      0      0   7660
1993   442.59  19.80   8763   3376        0      0      0   5387   0.00        0   5387       0      0      0   5387
1994   351.34  19.80   6957   3139       0       0      0   3818   0.00        0   3818       0      0      0   3818
195   278.01  19.80   5505   2878        0      0      0   2627   0.00        0   2627       0      0      0   2627
1996   217.29  19.80   4302   2490        0      0      0   1812   0.00        0   1812       0      0      0   1812
1997   167.36  19.80   3314   2074        0      0      0   1240   0.00        0   1240       0      0      0   1240
1998  122.66  19.80   2429   1621         0      0      0    808   0.00        0    808       0      0      0    808
1999    81.41  19.80   1612   1076        0      0       0    536   0.00       0    536       0      0      0    536
2000   111.15  19.80   2201    781        0      0       0   1420   0.00       0   1420   3605               0   5024
13528        274262  51968                                              222294                 164409  61489
Internal    Net
Rate of Present
Return CX) Value
0.1841 0.8596



- 45
Table 8: PETROLEUM PRODUCTION & BALANCE
Sumazed      Per-
Results,    cent
1983-86      (X)
1982           1983           1984           1985          196                       Diff.
Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-   from
uaL  cast      uaL  cast      ual  cast      usl  cast      uml cast       usl  cast    Fore-
1. NationaL Production and Use
cast
(in miLlions of barreLs)                                                   ....
Production
PETROPERU          19.5  20.8    17.3  23.0    22.2  23.4    24.7  25.6    23.3  26.3   107.0 119.1  -1i.3
Other              51.7  54.8    45.2  53.1    45.0  52.4    44.1  53.5    41.6  56.4   227.5 270.1  -18.7
Total              71.2  75.6    62.5  76.1    67.2  75.8    68.8  79.1    64.8  82.7   334.5 389.2  -16.3
Inports               0.7   0.0      2.2   0.0      0.7   0.0      0.2   0.0      1.6   0.0      5.4   0.0  100.0
1/
Total Sources        71.9  75.6    64.6  76.1    67.9  75.8    69.0  79.1    66.4  82.7   340.0 389.2  -14.5
Domestic Sales       46.9  50.7    40.6  53.3    41.6  56.0    39.9  58.8    42.9  61.7          212   281  -32.3
Exports              24.0  24.8    21.0  22.8    23.9  19.7    27.8  20.3    22.4  21.0          119   109    8.9
Refinery              0.8   0.0      3.0   0.0      2.3   0.0      1.3   0.0      1.2   0.0        9      0  100.0
Total Sales          71.8  75.6    64.6  76.1    67.9  75.7    69.0  79.0    66.4  82.7   339.8 389.1  -14.5
2.  Product AvaiLable for PETROPERU Sales
a. Production Available to PETROPERU
PETROPERU Prod.   19.5  20.8    17.3  23.0    22.2  23.4    24.7  25.6    23.3  26.3   107.0 119.1  -11.3
Other's Prod. 2/  22.4  23.7    20.2  22.9    20.3  22.9    20.0  23.8    19.2  25.6   102.1 119.0  -16.5
Contractor          6.8   7.3      4.8   7.3      4.4   6.6      4.0   5.8      3.2   5.1    23.3  32.1  -37.9
Sub-total  3/    48.8  51.8    42.3  53.2    46.9  52.9    48.8  55.3    45.7  57.1   232.4 270.2  -16.3
Purchases           9.5   0.0    12.2   0.0    13.0   0.0        8.9   0.0      0.1   0.0    43.6   0.0    NA
TotaL           58.3  51.8    54.5  53.2    59.9  52.9    57.6  55.3    45.7  57.1   276.0 270.2    2.1
1/ Reduced production due to impact of rains and floods.
2/ 50% of production.
3/ PETROPERU's Contractual Share of Country Production



-46
Tcblo 9: ACTUAL* AND FORECAST FISANCIAL RESULTS, 1962 - 19J6
Pag 1  of 2 page
Su_mrized    Per-
1. Incom  Statomnts                                                                          Resulto,    cent
1962-86      (%)
1962          1963          1984           1965          1966   D_ 0ff.    1967    196
Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fort-    Act- Fore-    Act- Fore-!  from       Act-    Act-
ual cat       uul cast      ual  cast      umt cast      uml cast       usl cast    Fore-    ual    ual/
ccst             Est.
(in miLlions of USS's, stated In current prices)                          --
Revneuas
Domestic Sales     818   893    810  1097       731  1252     624  1413      722  1582    3705  6237  -40.6       546     612
Export Sales       531   522     407   S60      47   S22      544   578      250   645    2219  2827  -21.5       217     140
Other               S7    81      51    86       43    9       25   104       14   112     190  478  -60.3         11      10
Total         1406  1496    1268  1743    1261  189    1193  2095       966  2339    4708  8046  -41.5        774     762
Oper. Expnses       1247  1303    1237  1341    1386  1447    1245  1577    1160  1728    5027  6093  -17.5        1089     975
Not Op. Inc.         19   193       31   402    -125   422      -52   518    -173   611    -319  1953   -116       -315    -213
Net Interest Exp.     56  117       33    68       15    62      18   75        26   103      93   308  -69.9        30      46
Non-operational        6    15       -6    13     -13    12      30    12       14    10      25    47  -46.3        31       0
Gains (or Losses)
Inc. Before Tax      109    90      -8   347    -153   373      -40   455    -186   517    -386  1692   -123       -314    -259
Income Tax             0    50       1   191        9   205      32   250       0   285       41   931  -95.6         0       0
Not Income           109    40       -9   156    -162   168    -71   204    -186   233    -428   761   -156        -314    -259
Exch ngeLocsa        103     0        0     0       0     0       0     0      -12     0     -12     0    MA       -243       0
looked Loss            0     0       -9     0    -162     0     -71     0    -197      0    -439     0    NA       -556    -259
'Actual dats ha been adjusted for inflttion accounting
for years 1983-1968.



- 47 -
Table 9 ICont'di
Page 2 of 2
2. Balance Sheet j/
((USS Million)
Assets                     1119
Current Assets                               568.1      471.3     703.9       652.4
Fixed Assets                              2,582.1   2,446.2  2,565.4        2,727.2
Accumulated Depreciation                   1,353.1    1,486.1   1,743.6     2,062.4
Net Fixed Assets                           1,229.1      960.1     821.9       664.8
Other Assets                                 132.5      131.4     165.7       153.5
Total Assets                             1,929.8    1,562.8  1,691.6      1,470.7
Liability and Eouitv
Current Liabilities                          475.0      406.1     571.0       724.2
Long-Term Debt                               430.4      383.5     485.9       614.4
Minus Current Portion                      97.9       89.0     159.2       307.8
Long-Term Debt (Net)                         332.5      293.9     326.7       306.6
Length of B. Fund                              1.4        1.3       1.4        15.2
Pension Fund                                   3.6        2.2       1.7         3.2
Total Liabilities                            812.5      703.5     900.8     1,049.2
Equity                                     1,117.3      859.3     790.7       421.5
Total Liability & Equity                   1,929.8    1.562.8  1,691.5      1,470.7
1L/ Above Data IncLude futly inflation adjustment that was introaduced Into PETROPERU's finanowal stotm_ant at
the end of project imple_mntation.



- 48 -
Table 10:   Status of Loan Covenants
Page 1 of 3
Loan                                        Deadline for
Acreement                Description        Compliance              Status
3.02          Borrower to employ consul-  Condition            Complied.
tants to assist in carry-   of effect-
ing out TA and training      iveness.
and supervise activities
of Project Management
Service Company (PMSC).
3.03(a)       Borrower to employ PMSC.    Condition            Complied.
of effect-
iveness.
3.03(b)       Borrower to establish                            Complied.
and maLntain a Project
Unit.
3.05(b.iii)   Borrower.to furnish                              Complied.
Bank with quarterly
progress reports.
3.06          Borrower to furnish           End of             Complied.
yearly update of             October.
feasibility report
of the Project.
3.07          Borrower to (i) exchange                         Complied.
views with Bank on
findings and recommend-
ations of studies
included in Part B (1);
(ii) upon completion
of studies included in                          Not available
included in Part B(2)                           yet.
and B(3) exchange views
with the Bank on
findings and recom-
mendations and on
phased program of
action to implement
the recommendations.



- 49 -
Table 10 ICont'd.)
Page 2 of 3
4.01(b)       Borrower to ensure                               Complied.
competitiveness of
salaries and benefits
provided to its
staff and inform Bank
every 12 months.
5.02          Borrower to furnish                              Complied.
audited financial state-
ments for each fiscal
year not later than 5
months after the end
of such year.
5.04          Borrower to exchange views                       Complied.
on its 5-year capital invest-
ment program and take steps
necessary to revise prog-
ram according to agreements
reached during exchange
of views.
5.05(b)       Borrower to maintain debt                        Non-compliance.
service coverage ratio of
at least 1.9 for FY82 and
2.0 for FY83 and thereafter.
5.06(c)       Borrower to maintain quick                       Compliance waived
ratio of, by 12/31/82: 0.7                      for 1982; there-
by 12/31/83: 0.9 in FY84                        after, non-com-
and there after:1.0.                             pliance.
5.07(a)       Borrower to maintain debt                        Non-compliance.
equity ratio within
70/30 for FY82; and
60/40 for FY83 and
thereafter
7.01(c)       Borrower to select mem-       Condition          Complied.
bers of its staff to         of Effect-
to be trained under          iveness.
Part B(4) of the Project.



- 50 -
Table 10 lCont'd.)
Page 3 of 3
Guarantee
Acreement
2.02          Guarantor to provide                            Non-compliance
Borrower with sufficient
funds to complete the
Project.
3.03          Guarantor to take such                          Non-compliance
action as required to
permit Borrower to com-
ply with debt-service
coverage targets.
Side
Letter        Government to increase       December           Complied with
domestic petroleum           1982               in substance 6/
prices to international
levels.
6/ Price increase was made January 1, 1983.



- 51 -
Table lls   Use of Bank Resources
Page 1 of 2
A.  Staff-Days
Stage of
Project Cycle                         Final
Through Appraisal                     125
Negotiation                             9
Supervision                           178
TOTAL                           312
B.  Missions
Stage                           No.   Days                                         Type
Month/      of      in        Specialization       Rating        of
Proiect Cycle      Year   Persons    Field         Reference l/       Status
Identification    06/81         3      10          PET.ENG, FNA,
EC
Appraisal          10/81        4      14          PET.ENG, FNA
EC, FNA
Follow-up App.    03/82         3      11          PET.ENG, FNA,
PRC
Cofinancing        10/82        2       3          COFI, FNA
Supervision        01/83        2      11          PET.ENG, FNA           2          F
Supervision        06/83        2      17          PET.ENG, FNA           2           F
Supervision        10/83        2      17          PET.ENG, FNA           2          F,
Supervision        06/84        6      17          PET.ENG, FNA,          1           F
GEO, CONT.SPE,
GEO, MA
Supervision        03/85        3       7          PET.ENG, FNA,          2           F,
Supervision        01/86        8      14          PET.ENG, CONT.SPE,2               F
FNA, ETC.



- 52 -
Table 11 (Cont'd.)
Page 2 of 2
Supervision        02/87        3       10          PET.ENG, FNA,         2           F
REF.ENG
Supervision        11/87        3        4          FNA, PET.ENG,          3          F
FNA
Supervision        06/88        2        6          PET.ENG, FNA           3          F
1/          PET.ENG:    Petroleum Engineer
REF.ENG:    Refinery Engineer
FNA:         Financial Analyst
COFI:        Cofinancing Advisor
GEO:         Geologist
CONT.SPE:   Contract Specialist
PRC:         Procurement Specialist
MA:          Management



