Document of                                 .    L
The World Bank                                     i I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3371PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$81e2 MILLION
TO
PETROLEOS DEL PERU, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
July 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in mw-
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witlout World Bnk authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
differential between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in 1981 and as of June 1, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981             June 1, 1982
US$1                   SI. 426.60               S/. 644.04
S/. 1                 US$0.0023                 US$0.0016
S/. 1,000             US$2.34                   US$1.55
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
bpd        -   Barrels per day
COFIDE     -   Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(National Development Finance Corporation)
ERP        -   Economic Recovery Program
IDB        -   Inter-American Development Bank
IPC        -   International Petroleum Company
MEM        -   Ministerio de Energia y Minas
(Ministry of Energy and Mines)
MW         -   Megawatt
PET1FOPERU  -   Petroleos del Peru, S.A.
(National Petroleum Company)
TOa        -   Tons of oil equivalent
USAID      -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Petroleos del Peru, S.A. (PETROPERU)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Peru
Amount:                     US$81.2 million, including a capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:                      Repayable in 17 years, including four years of
grace, at 11.6 percent interest per annum. The
Government of Peru would charge PETROPERU a
guarantee fee of 1.2 percent per annum.
Project Description:        The objectives of the project are to increase
proven oil reserves and the production level in
PETROPERU's Laguna-Zapotal fields on the north
coast'of Peru and to improve the company's capa-
bility to prepare and implement petroleum develop-
ment projects. These objectives would be accom-
plished through the provision of: (i) equipment
and infrastructure as well as drilling and project
management services for 1.59 new wells to be
drilled and 76 existing wells to be reactivated in
the Laguna-Zapotal fields; (ii) training for
PETROPERU's staff; and (iii) consultants' services
to assist PETROPERU in project supervision and to
study ways of optimizing the exploitation of the
Laguna-Zapotal fields and prepare production
enhancement projects in adjacent areas. The proj-
ect faces no special risks. The Laguna-Zapotal
fields have a long production history and an
experienced international. project management
service company would be contracted by PETROPERU
to assist in executing the project in an efficient
manner.
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoijt World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Estimated Costs (including about US$24 million equivalent in local taxes and
duties):
Local       Foreign       Total
-US$ millions--
A.  Production Enhancement             69.7        112.9        182.6
(i) Infrastructure                 4.3          5.3          9.6
(ii) Well completion and
pumping equipment             23.8         31.5         55.3
(iii) Drilling and well services  40.5            64.8        105.3
(iv) Project management              1.1        11.3          12.4
B. Consultant's Services
and Training                       0.5           2.7          3.2
Base cost                70.2        115.6        185.8
Physical contingencies                7.0         11.6         18.6
Price contingencies                  12.4         23.2         35,6
Total project cost       89.6        150.4        240.0
Front-end fee on Bank loan                -          1.2          1.2
Total financing required       89.6         151.6       241.2
Financing Plan:                       Local       Foreign       Total
--------US millions----------
Bank                     ---          81.2         81.2
PETROPERU                40.0         ---          40.0
Export Credits           ---          60.0         60.0
Commercial Banks         49.6         10.4         60.0
Total                    89.6        151.6        241.2
Disbursement Estimate:
Bank FY                 1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
…US----------US millions--------
Annual                 13.1   11.2   22.0   24.3   10.6
Cumulative            13.1   24.3   46.3   70.6   81.2
Rate of Return:                     In excess of 100 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:             No. 3856-PE of July 19, 1982



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
PETROLEOS DEL PERU, S.A. WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Petroleos del Peru, S.A. (PETROPERU) with the guarantee of the Republic of
Peru for the equivalent of US$81.2 million to help finance a Petroleum
Production Enhancement Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including four years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The
Government of Peru would charge PETROPERU a guarantee fee of 1.2 percent per
annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the
loan to PETROPERU to 12.8 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        An economic report entitled "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa.  There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Peru Sixth Power
Project President's Report of May 24, 1982 (Report No. 3339-PE).



century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between 1977 and
1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net exporter of
about 60,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum exporter, the
Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated exploratiOTi development
efforts to increase production and of rational pricing policies to contain
demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed petroleum products have
been increased at regular intervals.  In addition, new legislation was
enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and foreign investors,
and the response has been positive. The Government strategy is already
bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase in 1982 to an
average level of 207,000 bpd.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbani-
zation process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popu-
lation has continued to grow at about 2.6 percent p.a. and is currently esti-
mated at about 17 million. The country's urban population is increasing at
4.2 percent p.a., and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima
area. Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected
to grow in excess of three percent per year during the next 20 years. Over
the same time frame, it is expected that overall population growth will fall
only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. unless an effective population
control policy is adopted. The Government is conscious of the need to slow
down Peru's demographic growth rate and is now developing a primary health
care program which would contain a family planning compon,ent.
Past Development Policies and Perfomance (1968-78)
7.        Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only between
individuals but also between regions. The pattern of asset ownership in the
economy changed drastically through nationalization and a sweeping land
reform. The Government took direct control of key economic sectors and
imposed complex legislation to control the private sector. Many of the
policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost, and their implementa-
tion was inefficient,
8.        Between 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments followed expansionary
fiscal and credit policies. As a result, aggregate demand considerably
exceeded aggregate supply resulting in strong inflationary pressures and
widening external gaps. Inflation accelerated from five percent per year in
1970 to 38 percent in 1977. interest rates, however, remained substantially
negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating
capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant
between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
9.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of pay-
ments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly nine percent of GNP.  To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at
almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to
two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual exports of goods and
non-factor services.



10.        Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion, during which GDP
grew by more than six percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over six percent, and unemployment and underemployment rose
to almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during
the early 1970s.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
11.        Between 1975 and 1977, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports,
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative
level of US$800 million.
12.        Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program.
13.       Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
14.        To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stablization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion in the private and public sectors. These policy changes--together with
a declining domestic market because of the recession---resulted in a major
reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the value
of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about eight percent of output). The
Government also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
15.        The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.



- 4 -
Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about four months of
imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral
and international sources, thus improving the structure of its external
debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however,
growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Moreover, because of a relaxation in fiscal discipline,
the public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level--59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
16.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, Presideni: Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation. These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing);
a balance of payments with a substantial surplus, which, nowever, was partly
due to unusually high commodity prices and to the fact that import levels
were depressed and manufacturing exports high owing to the recession; and,
finally, deteriorated income distribution over the past several years
resulting in increased social unrest.
17.       The Government named an economic team committed to economic effi-
ciency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of sone of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in parti-
cular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
18.       The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.
19.       In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made progress
in correcting major price distortions. Food subsidies were greatly reduced



and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to international
levels. The marketing of agricultural products was liberalized, anld public
utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular intervals. Moreover,
the Government endeavored to rationalize public investment and its financing
-- an effort that was supported by a Bank sponsored Consultative Group
meeting in May 1981.
20.       The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
21.       In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 lagged behind expectations. GDP grew only at about four percent, and
employment generation was also sluggish. The balance of payments deterior-
ated substantially as a result of declining export prices, high interest
rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid expansion of
imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$580 million, equiv-
alent to about 2.5 percent of GDP. A major factor in the deterioration of
the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit which reached
about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some progress was achieved
in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December 1980-December 1981
basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it dlecelerated to an
annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the openness of the
economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in imports, and--to some
extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations. During 1982, inflation
is expected to reach 60 percent (which is also the average rate during the
first five months of the year). The Government is aware that this level is
still too high, however, and is following restrictive demand management which
it expects will result in a further drop in inflation.
22.        Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers.  While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the 1981 deficit
was mostly the result of steep increases in expenditurels and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is following a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceiliags and limits to foreign indebtedness. The Government also trimmed the
publi: investment program in line with its investment priorities.  The Bank
has ai ongoing and frank dialogue with the Peruvian Government on these
issues. Moreover, in June 1982 the IMF approved an SDR850 million
compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support Peru's stabilization efforts.
Peru's total debt outstanding to the IMF as of April 30, 1982 amounted to
SDR567.9 million.
23.        Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through the medium term the country is expected to have economic



- 6 -
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance. Taking the above factors into
account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering around 35 per-
cent of exports (which are relatively diversified) and assuming that the
authorities continue the initiated course of economic policies. Peru is
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
24.        The Bank has approved 49 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,221.1 million, net of cancellations. About 30 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 18
percent for agriculture, 20 percent for the energy sector, 15 percent for
mining and industry, about seven percent for education and urban development
and 10 percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$440 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, owing to vigorous Bank and
Government efforts to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit,
Disbursements on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5
million in FY81 and US$75.8 million in FY82. This compares witla average
yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
26.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management and of local capacity to prepare, implement and operate projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditiors for the urban and
rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has
shifted to more directly productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending
for social projects has also grown and will be further stepped up in the
future. The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include a project to improve public sector management,and rural
development, health, education and power operations.



27.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.4 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981, and
absorbed about three percent of the country's public external debt service in
1981. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about ten percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
28.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1982 were US$37.3 million
of which US$18.9 million is held by the Corporation. A summary statement of
IFC investments as of March 31, 1982 is presented in Annex II.  In addition,
a palm oil and a polymetallic mining project were riecently approved, and a
venture capital company is now under consideration.
29.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United Statess Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31, 1981
were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares of
public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural developmenl and health.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND PETROLEUM SECTORS
The Energy Resource Base and Balance
30.       Peru has a large and diverse energy resources base consisting of
hydroelectric power, oil, coal, natural gas, some geothermal power, and
renewable resources such as firewood and bagasse.  HIowever, in spite of the
recent acceleration of exploration and production activities, Peru's energy
resources are relatively untapped. The country's economically viable hydro-
electric potential, for example, is estimated at 60,000 MW of which only
about 1,650 MW are currently being exploited. Estimates of total oil, coal
and natural gas reserves vary from 9,700 to 3,500 miLllion tons of oil
equivalent (TOE), with proven and probable reserves of 200 million TOE. The
current annual rate of energy consumption is estimated at 12 million TOE.
31.       Known (proven and probable) oil reserves are estimated at about 110
million TOE or 800 million barrels. Some coal deposits suitable for thermal
power generation or for metallurgical coke have been identified but most of
the country has not yet been adequately explored. T'he Government has
recently formed a coal exploration company and requested a loan from the IDB
to initiate coal exploration efforts. Furthermore, there are some natural
gas reserves and substantial geothermal potential wlich the Government is now
beginning to study systematically.



- 8 -
32.       Peru's gross energy balance in 1980 was estimated to be as follows:
Primary Energy Source      % Share              End Use                % Share
Oil                           60.0      Industry and Agriculture         36.3
Firewood and Dung            26.0       Residential and Commerce         36.2
Hydropower                     6.2      Transportation                   21.4
Natural Gas                   4.7       Public Sector                     3.0
Bagasse                       2.5       Other
Coal                          0.6                                         3.1
100.0                                      100.0
Source: Ministry of Energy and Mines - National Energy Balance, 1981
33.       As is evident from the preceding table, the country depends heavily
on petroleum to meet its energy needs. Oil accounts for about 60 percent of
the country's energy consumption and for an even higher share (about 70
percent) of commercial energy requirements. Even with the accelerated
exploitation of hydroelectric power and coal resources, oil will continue to
be the most important source of energy during the next two decades, with an
estimated share of around 50 percent of total energy consumption by the end
of this century. The second major source of energy in Peru is firewood,
principally in the rural areas. About 60 percent of Peru's land surface is
covered by natural and cultivated forests. However, measures to prevent
deforestation and the continued shift of population from rural to urban areas
will tend to decrease, in the long term, the share of this resource in total
energy consumption.
Energy Sector Organization and Planning
34.       Operational responsibility for the various energy subsectors in
Peru is divided among several autonomous Government entities. PETROPERU, the
national petroleum company, has responsibility for State-run production
operations and almost all refining and distribution of petroleum products in
Peru. International petroleum companies--Occidental, Belco, Superior, Shell
and Hamilton Bros-Petroinca--are exploring for, and the first three produce,
petroleum under contracts with PETROPERU. Primary responsibility for power
generation lies with the national power company, 5ELECTROPERU, and various
local State-owned companies handle distribution in the :Larger cities. Coal
exploration and development are undertaken mainly by the State mining
company, MINEROPERU. Development and conservation of forestry, resources are
under the aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture.
35.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for overall
planning and policy-making in the energy sector and for initiating sector
pricing actions, which must be approved by the Government. In recent years,
MEM has received considerable technical assistance for energy planning. This
has included an energy balance study (completed in 1976 by UNDP) and an
assessment of energy resources and energy planning efforts (done in 1979 by a
team composed of U.S. Government and Peruvian officials). The German
Government financed a survey of hydroelectric potential in 197Y9 and has,
together with the Bank under the Fifth Power Loan (Ln. 1215-FE of 1976),
financed a power sector master plan (completed in 1980) in order to develop a
least-cost investment program for the sector. MEM thus has sufficient
knowledge of the country's energy situation--except in the areas of coal



- 9 -
resources and geothermal potential--to develop a comprehensive resource
development program. The Government is considering the establishment of a
national energy council to develop such a program and coordinate sector
policies. Its major efforts to date, however, have been directed toward
accelerating lagging development of the subsectors with the greatest
potential--petroleum and hydropower.
Government Energy Sector Strategy
36.       The principal objectives of Government policy in the energy sector
are to increase hydroelectric capacity and expand pettroleum production to
continue to satisfy domestic requirements and maintain, or increase, oil
exports. To help accomplish these objectives, the Government is attempting
to reduce the growth of internal demand through adequate pricing and other
demand management measures.
37.       Currently, installed hydroelectric generating capacity accounts for
less than three percent of Peru's estimated 60,000 MW of economically viable
hydro potential. The failure of previous Governments to develop this poten-
tial in a timely manner has put Peru in the position of having to install at
least one, and perhaps more, thermal plants to meet short run growth in
power demand. In order to minimize costly investment in thermal plants, the
Government has adopted an ambitious hydro power development program, which
calls for the expenditure of about US$500 million per year through the late
1980s. The Bank's recent US$25 million Power Engineiering Loan (Ln. 2018-PE
of June 1981) will finance the preparation of 12 possible hydroelectric
projects. The construction of most of these would begin in the next two to
four years. The high cost of this program, which is in large measure a
result of the location of most hydroelectric sites on the eastern side of the
Andes mountains far from population centers, will reiquire a substantial
increase in power tariffs. Toward the end of 1980, the Government initiated
a program of monthly power tariff increases, which averaged close to three
percent per month in real terms during 1981.  The Government is maintaining a
program of regular increases, with the objective of enabling sector entities
to finance about 40 percent of the cost of their investment program from
internally generated resources.
38.       As a result of petroleum exploration and development in Peru's
northern jungle, which began in the early 1970s, the} country had become
self-sufficient in oil by mid-1978. Total petroleumL production in 1981--
primarily by Occidental and PETROPERU--reached 193,000 bpd, of which about
30 percent was exported. Nevertheless, because of low levels of petroleum
exploration and development in the second half of the seventies and growing
domestic demand, Peru faces the possible need to import petroleum in the late
1980s. To avoid this, the Government has adopted a strategy of promoting
investment by foreign companies under production-shaLring arrangements with
PETROPERU. To attract such investment, the Government put into effect a
reinvestment tax credit and eliminated restrictions on foreign participation
in secondary recovery projects. On this basis, Occidental and Belco have
increased their investment programs. Exploration contracts have been signed
with Superior Oil and Hamilton Bros-Petroinca for northern jungle areas and
with Shell for a southern jungle block. Moreover, discussions are underway
with a number of other firms. PETROPERU, whose operations current account
for about 22 percent of the country's crude oil production, would restrict
its operations to three jungle blocks and the coastal area, and the company



- 10 -
is being strengthened so it can more effectively exploit these traditional
areas.  Its administration, staff and operations are being upgraded with
support from the Bank's US$32.5 million Petroleum Rehabilitation Loan
(Ln. 1806-PE of 1980). This support would be continued under the petroleum
production enhancement project recommended in this report.
39.       To induce energy conservation and make PETROPERU financially
viable, the Government has been periodically raising domestic petroleum
prices.   In 1981, prices were increased 36 percent in real terms.   The
Government's policy is to continue a program of regular price increases in
1982, so that the domestic prices for petroleum will gradually approach the
prevailing international price levels (for details, see para. 49). Attention
is also being given to reducing demand by improving energy efficiency in
industry. The Petroleum Refineries Engineering Project (Ln. 2117-PE of
FY 1982) will help in this effort by financing a project for reduction of
energy consumption in oil refineries--Peru's largest energy-intensive
industry.
The Petroleum Sector
40.       Production Prospects.  Peru has four major geological zones, each
of w'4c^h contains sedimentary basins with hydrocarbon potential: (i) the
Costa, particularly around Talara in the north wlhere, until the 1970s, almost
all of Peru's oil production was concentrated; (ii) the Selva region--the low
jungle plain east of the Andes mountains--currently the source of most
production and the area with the largest potential reserves; (iii) the
offshore regions lying between the Peru-Chile trench and the coastline where
four basins have already been detected; and (iv) the Sierra, where the like-
lihood of finding commercially attractive oil deposits appears low. Peru was
one of the world's first oil producing countries and was self-sufficient in
petroleum for many years. During the 1950s, however, with domestic prices
for petroleum products as well as producers' margins at low levels, domestic
consumption began tb outstrip lagging production. As a result, Peru became
increasingly dependent on crude oil imports in the 1960s and during most of
the 1970s. As noted in para. 38, in the late 1970s--following the discovery
of oil in the Selva--Peru once again became self-sufficient in petroleum and
began to export.
41.       Almost all the increased production that permitted Peru to renew
exports came from Occidental Petroleum's activities in the northern jungle.
As noted above, the Government has made substantial progress since 1980 in
attracting additional investment by foreign oil companies and ambitious
private investment plans are expected to be carried out in the 1982-85
period by the companies which currently have contracts with PETROPERU.
Occidental, the largest foreign oil investor in Peru, would spend about
US$200-$300 million per annum to sustain production in its jungle areas and
for secondary recovery investments on the coast where it participates in a
joint venture with Bridas, an Argentine firm. The other companies cited in
para. 34 are expected, together, to invest about US$300 million during the
next four years. The actual amount of investment would depend upon the
number of contracts ultimately signed with foreign oil companies and the
success of their exploration efforts. Investment in exploration and produc-
tion, however, should total about US$2.0 billion in the 1982-85 period.
About 70 percent of this would come from foreign investors, with the balance
coming from PETROPERU.



- 11 -
42.       Based on increased production from the incorporation of new
reserves recently discovered by PETROPERU in its jungle concession and the
installation of new pumping equipment for its jungle operations, the
country's petroleum production is expected to increase to abotat 207,000 bpd
in 1982, of which about a third would be exported. Not taking into account
the possible results of new exploration now being undertaken by private
companies and PETROPERU, the outlook is for total production in Peru to
remain above 200,000 bpd through the 1980s. With domestic demand expected to
grow at a rate of five percent p.a., Peru would again become a net importer
by the late 1980s unless the new exploration programs are successful.
43.       PETROPERU.  The State-owned national petroleum company, PETROPERU,
was established in 1969 following the government's nationalization of the
International Petroleum Company (IPC), a subsidiary of Exxon. PETROPERU
took over the assets of IPC and those of a small Government-owned oil company
as well as those of several other privately owned oil firms. Currently,
PETROPERU's own operations account for 22 percent of the country's crude oil
production, 100 percent of refinery capacity and 98 percent of the marketing
of petroleum products. In addition to conducting all State exploration and
production activity, it owns and operates the Transandean pipeline and
produces petrochemicals and fertilizer. While the Government's strategy
calls for foreign companies to continue to be the miajor petroleum producers,
PETROPERU is expected to retain its dominant position in petroleum refining
and distribution.
44.       PETROPERU is the largest public sector corporation in Peru, with a
total staff of about 8,700. It has a board of directors of nine members.
Three are appointed by the MEM, three by the Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Commerce, one by the Armed Forces, and two are representatives of the
employees of PETROPERU. The company's President, who is also Chairman of the
Board, has broad management authority within the company. PETROPERU's senior
management is generally competent and has extensive experience in the
petroleum industry in Peru. PETROPERU's middle management--especially in its
exploration operations, on the other hand--was weakened by the loss of many
of its technical and administrative personnel in 1977/78, primarily because
of the limitation placed on salary levels. In early 1981, however, PETROPERU
was given greater autonomy to improve its salary structure (para 20). As a
consequence, its salary scales are now competitive with those of the private
petroleum companies in Peru and the loss of experienced personnel has
declined. In order to avoid a recurrence of difficulties experienced in the
past, there is need for PETROPERU to keep a close watch over its vacancy
situation and, also, to ensure that its professional staff salaries remain
competitive. Under the proposed loan, PETROPERU would maintain the competi-
tiveness of its salaries and other staff benefits with those of private oil
companies operating in Peru, and would inform the Bank, at least once a year
until the Closing Date of the proposed loan, of any vacancies in its
exploration and production departments and of the action it intended to take
to fill such vacancies (Section 4.01(b) of the draft: Loa. Agreement).
45.       The headquarters of PETROPERU are located in Lima and functions
such as personnel management, training, finance and budgeting, marketing,
legal, planning, research and development, engineering, project management
and procurement are centered there. The operations of the company are



12 -
divided into five units: (i) northwest o,erations, including Talara oil
field operations, the Talara refinery and petrochemical plants; (ii) northern
jungle oil field operations, (iii) central Jungle operations; (iv) oil
pipeline operations; and (v) the La Parmpilla refinery operations in Lima.  In
general, decision-making authority in the company tends to be overly
centralized in the Board of Directors, with limited delegation to lower
echelons.
46.       With financing provided under the FY80 Petroleum Rehabilitation
Loan (1806-PE), PETROPERU has appoin ted Price Waterhouse to review its
financial management system and to make recommendations for its improvement
with emphasis on management inf ormationa systems, financial planning and
capital budgeting. In additiori, PET.OPERU has hired the consulting firm of
Arthur D. Little to make a detailed study of its management and organization
at the corporate level. This study aims at recommending ways of improving
the company's organization, and management efficiency (including dealing with
the problem of over-centralized decision-making in the Board of Directors).
It will also recommend improvements in planning and logistics services,
47.       PETROPERU's Financial. Situation. Aside from the loss of profes-
sional staff, PETROPERU's most serious problem in recent years has been
financial. A number of factors resulted in a fi:nancial crisis in 1979, which
required Government action to help PETROPERU avoid bankruptcy. These
factors included: (i) the incurrence of US$400 million in short-term debt by
the company to finance petroleum purchases from private oil companies which
were then sold domestically at subsidized prices; (ii) the contracting of
almost US$800 million in loans on relatively stringent supplier and
commercial terms to finance the Transandean pipeline which, until the late
1970s, yielded no revenues; and (iii) the requirement under its
production-sharing contracts with foreign oil companies that PETROPERU pay
all Peruvian taxes for these companies. In 1979, the Government took a
series of measures to help resolve PETROPERU's financial problems and to
restore its solvency; further measures were taken in connection with the
Bank's Petroleum Rehabilitation Loan. These actions included Government
contributions of S/. 70 billion (about US$242 million) in 1980 to strengthen
PETROPERU's capital structure and S/. 30 billion (about US$70 million) in
1981 as equity to finance the company's capital investment (para. 48 below).
The Government also changed the law which required PETROPERU to pay the
income taxes of foreign oil companies operati,ng in Peru. Under the new
arrangement, such companies now pa;i their own income taxes directly to the
Government and these taxes are transferred to PETROPERU as a Government
equity contribution. Overall, however, investment i-ncentive for foreign
companies have improved--as evidenced by the recent increase in such
investment--because of the reinvestment tax credit and the removal of
restrictions on their participation in secondary recovery projects (para.
38)
48.       Primarily because of the large equity contributions made by the
Government in 1979 and 1980, PETROPERU's financial situation improved consid-
erably in 1980. As a result, the company complied with the financial cove-
nants of the Bank's Petroleum Rehabilitation loan (Ln. 1806-PE). In 1981,
however, there was again a deterioration in the company's financial posi-
tion. The main contributing factors were: (i) the continued need for
PETROPERU to purchase oil at international prices from its contractors for
sale at subsidized prices on the domestic market; (ii) a reduction in



- 13 -
PETROPERU's production; (iii) passage into law of the reinvestment tax credit
which reduced the income tax liabilities for foreign oil companies and hence
resulted in less Government equity contributions to PETROPERU, while at the
same time, the Company continued to bear a very heavy tax burden (a 55
percent income tax as well as export, import and royalty taxes); and (iv) a
decrease in export earnings because of lower spot market prices. PETROPERVJ
was able to generate a profit of only US$1.7 million in 1981. The company
covered its cash flow needs through short-term borrowings on the order of
US$115 million by end-1981, and it was not able to meet the 1.4 debt service
coverage ratio agreed under Loan 1806-PE for 1981; the actual debt service
coverage was 1.2.  Also, the quick ratio at the year-end was 0.5, as compared
with the agreed level of 0.7 for 1981. However, the company met the Bank
loan debt-equity covenant for 1981; this ratio was 6)7/33, well within the
agreed level of 75/25.
49.       Petroleum Pricing.  Despite the substantial progress made in
raising petroleum prices in 1981, with an increase of 36 percent in real
terms, continued effort will be necessary in order to achieve prices which
are both economically realistic (i.e., in line with international prices) and
will help resolve PETROPERU's financial problems. Thus far in 1982, the
Government has instituted increases in average petroleum product prices that
total about 19 percent in US dollar terms. With these increases, the
weighted average price of all petroleum products is now the equivalent of
US$0.73 per gallon, which is about 90 percent of international prices. (The
price of 84 octane gasoline is US$1.02 per gallon.) The Government has
confirmed its intention to continue its program of increases for the balance
of 1982 so as to reach international levels by end-1982 and to implement
further increases thereafter, as required, to maintain prices at levels
necessary to enable PETROPERU to achieve the financial targets set forth in
the proposed loan agreement (para. 70).
Previous Bank Petroleum Lending and Strategy
50.       The Bank has made two loans for the petroleum sector of Peru total-
ing US$37.8 million. The first loan of US$32.5 million was made in February
1980 (Ln. 1806-PE) for a production rehabilitation project. It aimed at
helping PETROPERU to rehabilitate its existing producing wells, to reactivate
abandoned wells, and to develop new production potential through seismic and
reservoir studies and preparation of a secondary recovery project. After a
slow start, satisfactory progress has been achieved in recent months. Bids
for most equipment are either being evaluated or invitations will be issued
in the second quarter of 1982. Seismic and reservoir studies are now well
underway and studies for institutional reform have been completed.
Currently, loan commitments are about US$18 million and disbursements
stand at over US$8 million and should increase substantially in coming
months.  The Bank's second loan (No. 2117-PE) of US$5.3 million, approved oQ
March 25, 1982, is helping financing a petroleum refineries engineering
project which, in addition to developing plans to reduce refinery energy
consumption, would improve maintenance, train staff and strengthen refinery
and other industrial operations' management and planning.
51.       The Bank's main lending objective in the petroleum sector is to
support a policy of efficient management of this important resource and to
help maintain Peru as a net petroleum exporter. The strategy for



- 14 -
accomplishing this is to continue to help strengthen PETROPERU's ability to
effectively carry out the role assigned to it by the Government (see para.
38), to support a realistic domestic petroleum pricing policy, and to assist
Government efforts to attract foreign investment to the sector.  A substan-
tial institution-building effort for PETROPERU has been, and would remain, a
major feature of the Bank's petroleum lending.  Its aims are to help upgrade
the company's management systems and improve staff quality, financial admin-
istration, and exploration, production and industrial operations. The Bank's
operations give special attention to putting PETROPERU on a sound financial
footing and provide a vehicle for a dialogue with the Government on a
rational domestic pricing policy for hydrocarbons. Finally, as in the past,
the Bank would support increased foreign investment in petroleum exploration
and development. Through lending to the sector, the Bank has been in a posi-
tion to provide the Government with an objective assessment of PETROPERU's
capabilities. This evaluation has helped the Government to define an impor-
tant but limited role for the company consistent with its operating capa-
city.  The proposed petroleum production enhancement loan wou]d further
promote the Bank's objectives in support of the petroleum sector in Peru.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The project was identified by a Bank mission which visited Peru in
May 1981 and was appraised in October 1981 on the basis of a feasibility
study prepared by PETROPERU with the assistance of a consultant. The
appraisal mission's report entitled, "Staff Appraisal Report -- Peru Petroleum
Production Enhancement Project (No. 3856-PE, dated July 19, 1982) is being
distributed separately. Negotiations took place in Washington from June 28-
July 2, 1982, and the Peruvian delegation was headed by Mr. Victor Guevara,
Legal Advisor to PETROPERU. Supplementary project data are contained in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Background
53.       The objectives of the project are to increase proven oil reserves
and the production level in PETROPERU's Laguna-Zapotal fields on the
north coast of Peru and to improve PETROPERU's capabilities to prepare and
implement petroleum development projects within its sectoral role. The
project is also providing PETROPERU with experience in arranging project
financing packages. With financial assistance from Loan 1806--PE of 1980,
PETROPERU contracted Bechtel Financial Services to identify and help
negotiate export credit co-financing for this operation and the Bank has also
lent support in this effort. By participating in this process PETROPERU's
st.ff are being trained in the organization and execution of a project
financing campaign.
54.       The Laguna-Zapotal fields, located in the Talara area, are owned by
PETROPERU, which has carried out most onshore operations since its
establishment. Other operators in the area are: (i) the Oxy--Bridas joint
venture, which is carrying out an onshore secondary recovery project under a
service contract with PETROPERU; and (ii) BELCO, which operates the offshore
fields as a PETROPERU contractor. Historically, most of Peru's crude oil has
come from the Talara area, which has been in production sirce the 1920s.
More than 10,000 wells have been drilled in this area and production to date



- 15 -
has been about one billion barrels. Current production from Talara is about
69,000 bpd, about one-third of which comes from PETROPERU's operations, 39
percent from BELCO's and 28 percent from Oxy-Bridas. While Belco has
generally maintained its production level, PETROPERU's output has been
steadily declining for some years. This has been duae mainly to PETROPERU's
reduced operational capacity because of limited financial resources and loss
of technical and managerial staff.
55.       Despite its long production history and the large number of wells
that have been drilled, a considerable volume of oi:L can still be recovered
from the Talara area with little or no risk through reactivation of old
wells--which require rehabilitation and new pumps--and further drilling to
more effectively tap the existing reservoirs. Such a reserves and production
enhancement program in the Laguna-Zapotal fields is expected to increase
production by about 40 million barrels over the life of the project. Because
this project entails a low risk and is in an area long owned and operated by
PETROPERU, the Government has made the company responsible for its
execution. PETROPERU, however, lacks the technical and managerial capability
to efficiently carry out the project and the Bank played a key role in
convincing the Company to contract an experienced international project
management service company to ensure that the project is carried out
efficiently. The service company would also train E'ETROPERU's staff and thus
help it develop the capacity to prepare and undertake similar projects in the
future.
Project Description
56.       Production Enhancement.  This project component would account for
about 98 percent of total project costs. It would involve the procurement of
well completion materials (e.g., casing, tubing, wellheads, downhole equip-
ment), drilling services and pumping equipment for drilling 159 new wells and
reactivating 76 old wells. To transport the increased petroleum production
to PETROPERU's storage facilities at El Alto, 15 km west of the project area,
gathering pipelines, tank batteries and pumping stations would be installed.
The project would also provide living accommodations for PETROPERU's staff
and the project management company personnel and office space and storage
facilities for materials and equipment.
57.       PETROPERU would contract a project management service company which
would be responsible for the day-to-day coordination and supervision of
project activities to be carried out by drilling and well workover con-
tractors. Management services would require about 600 staff-months at
US$18,000/staff-month (including travel, subsistence and overhead). The
management service company would prepare the detailed project work programs
and budgets. It would also prepare and evaluate bids, recommend awards and
administer contracts on behalf of PETROPERU for all equipment, materials and
contractor services. The management service company would be primarily
responsible for technical recommendations to increase production. Therefore,
in addition to a fee to cover overhead and profit, it would be eligible ror
an incentive bonus which would be based upon oil production above an agreed-
upon target. As a condition of loan effectiveness, ]PETROPERU would enter
into a contract with a management service company acceptable to the Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.03 (a) and 7.01 (a)
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
58        Technical Assistance.  This component, representing about two
percent of project cost, would consist of about 110 staff-months of
consultants' services at about US$18,000 per staff-month (including travel,
subsistence and overhead) to: (i) assist PETROPERU in supervising the
proposed project management service company; (ii) undertake studies to refine
the production potential estimates and to improve reservoir management for
the Laguna-Zapotal fields on the basis of more detailed data to be obtained
during project implementation; (iii) determine whether the spacing between
existing wells is technically and economically justified or whether
additional drilling should be undertaken; and (iv) undertake studies of
additional drilling programs in the project area or adjacent areas to lead to
further production enhancement projects. The hiring of these consultants
with qualifications and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 7.01 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Not later than October 31 of each year until the
closing date, PETROPERU would provide the Bank with an updated version of the
project feasibility report as refined through the studies mentioned in (ii)
above and project execution experience. This report would provide the
technical and economic justification for new wells still to be drilled and
existing wells to be rehabilitated; the Bank would have 15 working days after
its receipt of the report to determine whether it is satisfactory and Bank
acceptance of the justification provided therein would be a condition of
disbursement for the wells to be drilled or reactivated (Section 3.06 and
para. 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, the Bank and
PETROPERU would, upon their completion, exchange views on the studies
mentioned in (iii) and (iv) above and on PETROPERU's prcposed program to put
the recommendations of these studies into effect (Section 3.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
59.       PETROPERU's operational staff would be trainedi both abroad and in
the field working with the project management service company and with
PETROPERU's project unit, which will be set up to administer this project
(see para. 60 below). The agreed upon terms of reference for all project
consultants include a requirement that they develop and carry out a training
program for the PETROPERU staff assigned to work with them. As a condition
of loan effectiveness, PETROPERU would select the staff to be trained under
the project (Section 7.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
60.       PETROPERU has established a project unit satisfactory to the Bank
and has appointed a project unit manager with qualifications eLcceptable to
the Bank.  This unit would supervise the operation of the project management
service company, as well as the consultants to be hired under the project,
and would be responsible for approving the management service company's work
program, budgets, expenditures and recommended contract awards (Section 3.03
(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). It would ensure that the project was being
carried out in accordance with the agreed work programs. The project unit
would be assisted by the consultants referred to above in carrying out these
tasks. The project is expected to be executed in a four-year period.
Project Costs and Financing
61.       Total project costs are estimated at US$240.0 million (including
about US$24 million equivalent in local taxes and duties), of which US$150.4



- 17 -
million, or 63 percent, would be for foreign costs. Physical contingencies
for the project have been estimated at a composite ten percent rate for
equipment, materials and consulting services.  Price contingencies are based
on projected international price increases of eight percent in 1983, 7.5
percent in 1984, seven percent in 1985 and six percent in 1986. ILcal cost
contingencies have been calculated in US dollar equivalents on the assumption
that variations in the exchange rate would compensate for the difference
between local and international inflation.   Total financing required for the
project is US$241.2 million, including a US$1.2 million capitalized front-end
fee.
62.       The proposed Bank loan of US$81.2 million would cover about
one-third of the total estimated project financial requirements, including
the front-end fee and about 54 percent of the project's foreign cost. Of the
remaining US$160 million of financing required for the project, US$120
million would come from cofinancing. Half of this cofinancing is expected to
be in the form of export credits for the equipment and part of the drilling
and other services to be purchased under the project. The balance of the
cofinancing would be provided by commercial bank loans. PETROPERU has
received preliminary commitments for the export credits, which Bechtel is
helping to arrange (para. 53) and the commercial bank 'Loans would be
negotiated toward the end of 1982. The Board would be advised of any
cofinancing arrangements resulting from this proposed project. PETROPERU
would provide the equivalent of US$40 million in local cost financing for the
project.
Disbursement and Procurement
63.       Disbursements for eligible services under the Bank loan would
extend over about four years and would be made against: (i) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for well completion and recompletion services and 60
percent of total expenditures for well drilling and workover services (the
total cost of these services would be US$105.3 million; the drilling program
to be financed by the loan would consist of the operation of two rigs in the
first two years of the project and four rigs during the remainder of the
project--the balance of the drilling program would be financed by export
credits); (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for project management
services; (iii) 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures
for consultants' services and training; and (iv) 100 percent of the Bank's
front-end fee. In order to launch project activities without delay, the
proposed loan would provide for retroactive financing for the costs of the
management service company of up to US$2 million, incurred after July 31,
1982. The well drilling and workover services to be financed under the Bank
loan would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures in
conformity with the Bank guidelines. Highly specialized services required
for well drilling, workover, completion and recompletion would be procured
under limited international tender up to a total of US$14 million.  Selection
of the project management service company and specialized consultants would
be made in conformity with the Bank guidelines for the selection of
consultants. In the selection of the project management service company
price would be taken into account as a factor, together with qualifications
and experience, since the contract would include an incentive bonus clause
(para. 57).
PETROPERU's Finances
64.       Although the financial measures taken in 1979 and 1980 to correct
fundamental problems have helped to strengthen PETROPERU, its performance in
1981 was less than satisfactory (see paras. 47-48).  Three actions are now



- 18 -
necessary to provide a solid financial foundation for PETROPERU in the
future. These are: (i) a petroleum pricing policy which substantially
eliminates subsidies to consumers currently borne by PETROPERU; (ii) improve-
ments in PETROPERU's operating efficiency, which would enable the company to
maximize production from its existing reserves; and (iii) a realistic invest-
ment program for PETROPERU, within the limits of the sectoral role assigned
to it.
65.       Prices.  Progress toward meeting the Government's pricing objec-
tives has been satisfactory and is summarized in para. 49.
66.       Operating Efficiency.  PETROPERU's petroleum production has been
steadily decreasing (from 46,000 bpd in 1979 to 42,000 bpd in 1981) as a
result of a lack of qualified technicians required to maintain production in
existing fields and to initiate production in new areas in the jungle to
compensate for declining output of older wells. As a result, to meet
domestic demand, PETROPERU has had to purchase oil from its foreign con-
tractors at close to international prices, which has drastically increased
its operating costs. With recent steps (e.g. salary increases, improved
training) designed to strengthen its staff, increases in production from
wells rehabilitated under Loan 1806-PE and the start of production from
recent discoveries in the jungle, PETROPERU's production is expected to
rebound to about 56,900 bpd in 1982. The proposed loan, together with Loan
1806-PE, would help improve PETROPERU's operating efficiency and assist in
the implementation of required investments.
67.       Investment.  Following a period of high investments corresponding
largely to construction of the US$800 million Transandean pipeline in
1972-77, PETROPERU's capital outlays declined considerably during the 1978-80
period, averaging US$60 million per year. This decline reflected financial
as well as manpower constraints. With improvement in planning and increased
efficiency, the level of investment in 1981 rose to about US$137 million.
68.       Given PETROPERU's assigned limited role in the sector, its project
preparation and operational capacity and its likely financial situation, the
company's investment program in the 1982-86 period is likely to consist
primarily of the following projects: (i) the investments under the two Bank-
financed petroleum production projects; (ii) a secondary recovery project or
another production enhancement project in Talara, whose preparation are
included under the two Bank-financed projects; (iii) development of new finds
in PETROPERU's jungle blocks; and (iv) expansion and improvements at existing
refineries. This program would cost about US$790 million for exploration and
development and about US$420 million for refining and other investments
between 1982 and 1986. PETROPERU would require assistance from consultants,
in order to carry out this proposed program. To help assure that PETROPERU's
investment program is well-tailored to its financial and operational capacity
and responds to sectoral priorities, during the project execution period, the
Bank and PETROPERU would have an exchange of views on PETROPERU's proposed
five year investment program annually at least 90 days before the end of the
preceding year. PETROPERU would then revise the proposed program in accord-
ance with the agreements reached in the exchange of views (Section 5.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       Financial Prospects.  If the Government increases domestic
petroleum prices as planned and provided the above investments for the
1982-86 period and improvements in PETROPERU's efficiency result in a



- 19 -
currently projected output level of 72,000 BD by 1986, P]ETROPERU's internal
cash generation--together with the Government equity contributions (para.
47)--would be sufficient to cover about 55 percent of the proposed investment
program. PETROPERU should also be able to repay its current short-term debt
(para. 48) and be in a position to finance the balance oif its investment
program through long-term borrowing.
70.        The financial projections for PETROPERU reflec: the foregoing
assumptions. They also assume that, starting from 151,000 bpd level in
1981, contractor production would grow to 155,000 bpd by 1986 and petroleum
export prices would average US$31 per barrel in 1982 and remain constant in
reEl terms thereafter. Under these assumptions, PETROPE]RU's finances would
considerably improve in 1982 and it would return to a satisfactory financial
position in the following years. Loan 1806-PE contained financial covenants
providing for: (i) debt service coverage ratios of 1.9 in 1982 and 2.0 in
1983 and thereafter; and (ii) quick ratios of 0.9 in 198:2 and 1.0 in 1983 and
thereafter. PETROPERU's debt service coverage ratio is projected to rise
from 1.2 in 1981 to 2.4 in 1982 and 1983. The debt service coverage targets
under Loan 1806-PE would be retained for purposes of the proposed loan
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). PETROPERU's quick ratio is
projected to rise from 0.5 at year-end 1981 to 0.7 at year-end 1982 and 0.9
at year-end 1983. The quick ratio covenant would also be repeated, except
that the target for 1982 would be reduced from 0.9 to 0.7 to be achieved at
year-end, and the 0.9 target would be met by December 31, 1983. During 1984
andL thereafter the quick ratio would be 1.0 (Section 5.016 of the draft Loan
Agreement). These are levels PETROPERU is expected to be able to achieve and
which are satisfactory. PETROPERU's long-term debt-equity ratio is expected
to improve from 67/33 in 1981 and 68/32 in 1982 to 59/41 in 1983. The
covenant under Loan 1806-PE--providing that PETROPERU would not incur any
long-term debt without Bank approval unless its debt-equity ratio was at
least 70/30 in 1982 and 60/40 in 1983 and thereafter--would also be repeated
under this loan (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). In order to
assure sufficient funds for investment, the Government would reinvest in
PETROPERU dividends declared by the company to the extenl: that such funds are
necessary to help finance the PETROPERU investment program agreed with the
Bank (para. 69) (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Economic Benefits
71.,       The estimated economic rate of return of the project is very high
(a little above 100 percent), because the investment wou:Ld be made in an
established producing area with good transportation and other infrastructure
and well-defined undeveloped reserves and because it wou:Ld began generating
revenues in 1983. The financial rate of return to PETRO]'ERU would be
substantially lower--about 35 percent--because of the high tax burden on the
company (a 55 percent income tax, import duties, export taxes and an eight
percent royalty). Sensitivity analysis indicates that, because the rates of
return are so high, they would remain above the opportunLty cost of capital
undLer any reasonable set of assumptions.
72,        Total incremental oil production over the life of the project is
expected to reach 40 million barrels. The incremental production would
either be exported or would substitute for imports, producing foreign
exchange earnings and/or savings of US$ 850 million over the next ten years.



- 20 -
73.       In addition to its economic and financial benefits, the project
would help improve PETROPERU's capacity to operate its petroleum fields
efficiently and to prepare and execute future high-return projects of a
similar nature.
74.       The project faces no special risks.  The Laguna-Zapotal fields have
a long production history and their recoverable reserve estimates are firm.
The use of an experienced international project management service company
provides added assurance that the project would be carried out efficiently.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between PETROPERU, COFIDE (which under
Peruvian law must be party to all agreements providing for external loans for
public enterprises) and the Bank; (ii) draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Republic of Peru and the Bank; and (iii) Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       These draft agreements conform to the pattern of previous Bank
loans for petroleum development projects. The main features of the draft
Loan and Guarantee Agreements are referred to in the text of this report and
are listed in Annex III. Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(i) that the consultants under the technical assistance component of the
project have been appointed; (ii) that a project management service company
has been hired under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii)
that the PETROPERU staff to be trained under the project have been selected.
A condition of loan disbursement on wells to be drilled or reactived is the
presentation by PETROPERU of an updated economic and technical justification
satisfactory to the Bank, for such activities.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Munir Benjenk
Attachments
July 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                                         ANNEX I _
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ.  OM.)                                                              - MST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1285.2                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      305.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   290.0       470.0      930.0                   1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      417.3        662.7      716.1                   1259.9                     2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 10181.0       13461.0   17379.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3          57.4       67.4                     65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         27.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           48.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         7.9         10.5       13.2                     35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      33.3         45.0       55.5                     92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.6         44.3       42.9                     39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         51.7       53.8                     56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.4          3.9        3.5                      4.2                        7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4         2.8        2.6                      2.4                        1.6
URBAN                               5.1          4.9        4.2                      3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.5         41.5       35.9                     31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.0         14.8       10.9                      8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3         3.0        2.4                      2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             .
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        102.0       77.0                    110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    98.3         97.2      97.5/c                   108.4                     125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           64.0         60.1       59.27Th                  66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         25.1       24.07?                   34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      37.8         20.2        9.5                      5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.4           53.1       58.1                     64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           162.9        119.7       87.7                     64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               14.6        35.0       48.3                     65.6
URBAN                              30.2         58.0       60.0                     78.9
RURAL                               0.8          8.0       25.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         36.0       34.0                     59.3
URBAN                                 ..        52.0       51.0                     75.3
RURAL                                 ..        16.0         ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2011.7       1904.9    1532.4/c                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2205.0/d    1000.5       676.17?                 1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             425.1        469.6      538.3/c                  477.4                      286.8
URBAN                             273.8/e      524.9      426.47&                  679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..      3055.2    5705.2/c                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        19.0       23.0/c                   27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          4.8/f
URBAN                               4.8          4.97         ..
RURAL                               4.9          4.67        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                                2.0         1.7/f
RURAL                                2.7         2.47T
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              26.0         32.0/f       ..
URBAN                              50.7         54.3/f       ..
RURAL                               4.2          2. 77T      ..



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0       103.0      112.0                    104.3                     102.4
MALE                 95.0        111.0     115.0/c                  106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               71.0         96.0     108.077                  103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 15.0        30.0       50.0/c                   41.3                      60.2
MALE                  18.0        34.0      53.07?                   40.4                      66.4
FEMALE               13.0         26.0      46.0/c                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  19.9          17.1      18.3/c                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.6        35.5       40.2                     29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          12.3        17.3       29.2                     16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         72.5/f    79.7                     79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.8         17,1      18.6/c                   42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        108.0       135.1      147.5                    270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2        29.3       50.2                    107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                              123.3      51.4/c                   63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.4            ..        ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3186.8      3891.8    5149.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.2        20.8       23.2                     24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.5        48.0       40.0                     31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.6        18.4       18.5                     23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.3         28.9      29.6                     33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 49.6         45.8      45.5                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               13.2         12.0      13.7                     16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.7       1.6                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
NERCENT Of PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4T        61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/R         1.97       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0          7.07        ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                ..           ..     235.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..     180.07                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     293.0/c                  518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     200.07?                  371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      49.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic   1977;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /S Personal income within labor force.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                                    ANNEX I
DFNT OPSOSCA lcIINDICATORS                                                            Page    3   of    15
iets:Aals,ghg the  aase  dea   free sources genrally judged trh  matatoittiead reliable. it nbond alno be noted then  hteymy  no lt ine-,
aeIasll  cmparable benans  of theflack of -taderdined defteitiee   ad.c..cepts used by different  eunsrlea is collecting tbs data.  Tbs data are, noe-
tlee - nfu1 to describe order  ofmgitude, indicate troudo, and o               .reefer  cetInmjor dffseurs  eI.... ...tren
Therefrene icup  ar I(I rho   s  c         gnr  group of lbs -bject country and (2) I country troop with ansebat higbh-  --ege intone than the coun try group
ofth  tb oc  oocry(ecot  or   nggh Income   oil          .tru" grou  whreMiddle I..e.- North Africa and Middle tact" ts rho-s  t,- so-   utose
nocf -cnra   fltte)                h   rotnrgoufaatE.  acrag                 p are pplle    eghe   rtmtc   as   eet   idcseadshe   nye
majcr lty cC  he  oun..tries icaIgr...p h-ndosfur  hrh  lcdi _ctr -  Since the.oeaeo to uIe.teiets g the i.,dicoto    dendontenalhlyofaa
and ic cot _sics  culo   ou         io ee ud c   ea  s  anerge  of one indloal-  to esothet.   bn                 _nrages are only u..efal in comparIng the -al- of
AIOD  (rhc.....du'q.hs.-)                                                  17   .t               Poplatien perlerna   e    totl,crbu,an  rua    F..Popultion(otl
Total - fTal iceyorersa  -p,riulg land cre  ad iInad salem; 17da.urs,sdrural) dndd L                                         by their rspeet inn somber of hosrital beds
Agriacl1tc-l - Etuinte ofariutua   rea cued tep-trlty or peres=etly                              alabeopuicsdrntegnneral tad speciclic-d berirtl,  andre
feecop,oucee   -ueo  end kircheu g.rden  or to Iis fattut; td9ata.                             bh ilitatccettt.toplis.I ar   stbIshmet  pe_snty                        Itffed
bp ar leant ens phyt i-in    iulabIihbnont  prodding princiIpaly ..sto-
191' ig CbPII  (IS) -GNP Pee captee- sae  ascren    aket pricen. ..I-                        dial turn aresotitludd.  Rural hasyipis.l  bhmnsy  intlude hbrbt
culated by udeccerinmthod us World latc   Atla  (1978-80 basis); 1960,                           and medinl c -ruie  so  Permanently stffed by a phyclisis (but by 
19)70.cd990 data,                                                                                medical .tn..   ot  'urns  midwife. etc.)  hthb of fer ie-patiennoot        e
datian and pronide a~ 11sfted rasge of medicl.1ailtit.To   tatin-
ENERGY CONiUMPTTION PER CAPITA - Annulcosptn of  eo-ou                Ieeg   (tea                  utol parpuses  -rh- houpits inlue            Oi.e prtnciPlpeg-eneal    uptas
aud ltgoire, petro1leum, naturel gau nod hydr--, nulear and geothermalelet.-                     an         h-ra  hsp~ital   local or rura  hspitais cod medical asd maternity
itriciy   in kileeac   oo   qivln  pen tapirs; 1960, 1970. and 1979                             cetrs Sp Iciaied hospitals Ite isciuded onyly  ne  tora
data.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Adm  ionnu  re IfauPit4l Ned - Total tuhr fb mies  co  disebhrges
frm  hnupitla  dnicitod by the nonter of hrds.
POPULATION AND tITLeS SOATISTICS
Total Pore1utiot. Mid-tsa  (thousan.ds) - Ad of July 1; 1960, 1979,. ad 1990                HuOUSINGl
data.                                                                                       Anerage line  f Unn-cio1d        ....ut  per huosehold) -total, urban, and rrl
Orbas Poo.1ti.olc  fysr'nrt R1t-ie) - Pae i. ofeha  to rtota  pupolatlon;                        A bonoehol  esiott of s grop of indindu1s who share lining quarters
differrt definitions of urban croc  say sor   pgerahility of data                             cud thermi  mel,   Ahorder or lodger may or say roh  included is
smegcutre;1961. 1970. en.d 19g0 data,                                                          the houshod Ifo Istti-tttr       ..i uroes.
P.t.le-i_n Projections                                                                         A-euenuMeLf ece  reb.cmioo.  oe, andrra-negeu
PocolnIn yea  2000 - Current population prJori..os  are base d no1980                   bet of persons pro  .O.n is ci urbs, and trura  ...pi. P        ocatl
tota  population by age and son oud their  ortslgt  end fertilitY rae.de-ag.rnetsly.  ltligeouo opraatsructuresan
ProjecIec paramters for   erta1ilty rateslo epIf_ ofthre  le-el  _ns-unccpied pacic.
lug life enpoctarr..y an birth intre..sing sui cute' p.er capta income                    Ac.est t  Ele-crility (P.-neot of deellin,c) - netal, urban. sud  -u-1 -
lenl, ard fema.leitfe enpecrusty snbahi.icsgu   77.5 year.  Tie parc-                       fonutnl  wlig  sith electricity in living quar.ters as Percentarge
notert for fertility ruts also bane three I.L,cl   som    decline In                        of trIt,obu..  od rural ds-llisgsecpnc ni-ely.
fertili ty according in  11 inom  leveI and pat, fonly planiog promne
loheccr    in hee  soiu        our c  thesenie cenbisanioss of  erta11try        EDUtCATIRN
and fortuity ttnodn for pr7eiuP.resn                                                      Adjonte  Enrollment Rutics
SItaionary y cine-lnacIa~tlcory popuhtto  there In uo grooch tints                             Primaysho                 - a,mle ond female - irons not1, male an  female
the hirhroto   t equa  cc th  An_th roe,an .as   the,, ag   turr  r-er                            s  ofal  ages at the primary lnel an peroe..ages of  ..pe tin
nolnicotutut -   his i ac hievd ol   ttrieiliy rtea decline. to"                         Primary nhclsepupuIitles; normlly intludeIc1hildren aged 6-11"
the rPtaImn  level of cotIt   rerc            lc   rte, when serb ge-eruion                    yearu but adjusted for diffTereo   lengths  fpir   dnaion; for
ci wome  repla_   itself etoetly.Tesainr  pnuatsseeescutries with onceral  decol                                                         I enollen  nay soee   00prcn
ectinoted enth nb-ihnt  of the projected                  oautritt   f theoulto                since soepupils or  halosor -b   the nufitd  schual ige.
i   he year 2000. osd tho race of do1olt  or f-rrilitry rtel  enrpae                      ec.oysho   -.1to, nob  ted f-1al - Computed us shon; seoey
Ter tcnico-r  ,Porelatt    iu reahed - The year oh-  ueinypopulation                          p-ncid..turd               ..cibna. ortet..het, iso   fu-tructiun_ o  ppl
nice olli be reac.hed.                                                                         usualy ci 12 to 17 yours of Age; correspVondence. cores are genresl1y
'crelati- Dennity                                                                                 included.
Per sq. km. - Rid-year populatior per nqcere kilometer10 flog-etaet) of                     Oc..atiunol lenenII-t(ecs   fscodr)-fcou   ni-i-utioos
reichaa   1960  1970 and1979 data.                                                           iselude tenhei-a, ludutriu1, or other pregrees sith npeeate l.depend-
Per _n k.  ugieiua  ad - Gosp-id u hv  fee  grru 1uollad                                       estl'yeor as dapuarmect  of .....ndaryinistnu
only; 1960, 1977 and 1979 dan.                                                            fp-il-t eahe  raItio - clmr.oed stsd - Totlsudnt  Isrld is
'Poycutiu  Alr Strootre lyrroeet) - Childrrc (0-14 years). enrkiug-uge (15-                      priory and secoedart level  divided by  -une-  of trehbee  in the
hi y..r... endreIrd(AS yorar  and -ovr) an percentargen of mid-year pepo-                      nornenpundig le-el.
ato;1960. 1970i'end 1980 daa                                                            Adult literacy rale (rerce..t) - Literate adultn  fable to read nod -it.)
yoopu-aio  ireeth late (preront) - total - Acal..I grosih ratr  of rtota  mid-                   Isperoentagofc renal adult popalsion aged 1) years and over.
year ycpul.asie fcc 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-go.
opuPlatIon itemS Rate freoecs) - eho-   uua  groeth rate  if urban pep-                     CONSuTlfIONt
fotlet fo  13-hi, 19260-TI, and'!q9y7-gg.'                                              P..ue.ir Cats (per thead pulto)- Pat-eg-r tote cmpe insmao
Crude tirol lae-yo  _h.sd               Aco...I lice birtha Per thousand of mid-year             .a.Ieain   ln  then eight personi; rueldni ambulances,. hearses cud
pyaic;1960. 1970, -ed 1990 dan.                                                         sic itary enteso
C1rude Teeth R  'lae(perhrcund) - An... Idethi per thousan.d  oA mid-yea                       ladle tBellivr  fo(er tosn   ouaiu    All types of receiv-r  for  Aind
ycyolaci-u; 1960. 1970, oud 1990 data.                                                         brood--ntnE gesers  public per th.....d of 'poplaio_;e ouldeu o--
Iron  Rayroducion Rate - Aesage tu-hec of daughters. a .oma. will bea  in                        licensd receivers i,. _utris and in years whetreioralo                f radio
her norml r..pr.ednoni-e period if ohs  oeircnpresent age-spenlilo  fer-                       nete was. in offeot.   I.t!   for re nyeses nay no  he coparble sines
Ait1i riou  usualyfin-y...  ....cie  en ding in I960, 1970, cud 190.                           masttestrion abolitbd licening.
falyP Ario - c trrcu. Aotul.(hasnI       )-Anna  numI..ber of acteptrsr              TI Rgece~Leesper thescand pop.I.tiot) - TVreivs fee broadcast to
of bir  choenrldncsudrosie   fotoolfml   lsigpur.                                              gnrlpbic peittic-d populati-n; eon  ds  unli-e-nd TV  eanr
~uoilyplanioc-Iner  fyeroIcofmatriednoen) -Perrcoefnriditeo-triesau.dto  yearn  hnetcrneofv  neissasi.  ff.,
unman  f child-heari-g ae(15-44 yoaru) sh. cu  bilthb-cotto1  d-el... to .ae Cicltio  leer thouaind o-pul"ni) - Shows the averge tie-
.all married seeciItmeae  vop1eltlsCf "daiygseatirstssPar.defioed -sepI  ilud"lel
poblltation deo-ted trimaruly in recr.ding genra  nes                   .. icnidered
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                                 noh   dal"ifi   p pest  at Il..st f-c  time  a            Ze.
Indue of Pou  Prdcto   pe   Catc  (9-71-10D) - Icde.ofc per  . cpta a..a.Ciem  Anua Ared-se  e  Cyiope    a-lane..d on the sober of
frdcce  f      alfond c-noedirn   Prdci.s ec loeI        edndfe   o                     tickets  odd durinR  the yeor, inelsdisg admission     di die-in  i
Cu. on c--dor yeao basin.  G.-diiien  covet primary gonn(e.g. ngarc                           ad mebile units.
custaelof c  outat) chich  -edible und  cnan otiis(e.g. coffee cud
tea arc  _ncleasa.  Aggregate p-oduntIfs  f each cosun.ry in based oo                     LABOR FORCE
-ational acutge producer price uighto; 19h1-65, 1970, and 1980 data.                        Total Lobr Force (thousonds) - FIce...ica11y attivo  perse-, includi.g
yet caplna  -pply efoc.lrito  (yrroet cirqlrer)- lesputd from                                   crw    ottan   unlyd           butroluding hasca teide-t., etc.,
_norgyn1e iyalrc6 of  c  foodtceyplie  available luco-ntryiper.capita                          ecene  'popultieofallaEe.  lefiiti...u in car..  .ean .curri.sse
pot dec.Avilable  uyle _       ouspefuedomoi   Wrdotin           iyn     less                  se  comaroble; 1960, 1970 end 1980 date.
rcyoru  cod  degn in kti   Hert npylleo ro ldeanma  ford, seeds,                              Female (2recnt  - Petals labor f.ore as yerceags of total lahb  forte.
1eat leina cured in feed p-oceuning. ad lon.. in diutr ihusiun.  Require-                     Agort-ltot  (percent) -LAbo  forte.i  farmig, foretty   huu    _od
eret.  _.o one laced by PAO hosedc  phyuiclegica1 oeds fo1r  -ornl cn-fishno                             nprrt  fi ccolt  labor f.or; 1960, 19)  an.d18  data
city and    I"t  oc" dretcicmnaleortrt   oywihto, a5.tdonity frpoet)-  b.Ir toree in niniog, cntuto,m cfturIg
.nd ur  diunlhni-     o  poaain,ad aIlwiog 10 percent for acue u                                and electricity8, wor and gun an percentage of tota  laboe fenc;
tec-h,,ld Onvo1; 1961-65, 1970 and 1971 datu.                                                   1969, 19 70 and 190      'sa.
Pr  et capita    , o frcc  oroeic (ura_ pe   a) - Protein connect cf Per ccpina               P0btato   ae  p et)-toa.n ,ad le~ead-Poetic ipanion en
can n-Pply of food per day.  Net soyply       ofoed i. defined at above,  iRe-                aelnsra          aeconputed anttl        -ml, d female labor forte as
qeiresern  for all cunti-o estblished by 1110A pr-ido fone suim                                perceotuge  of "totl. mal-d fesale poplaltion of alla g.. reipec tivoly;
allo...yco cf 60 gcn   If tota  pr-neis Per day ond 70 groa  of animal and                     1960.  970, end 1999ses   lbI!   roe. are bh...d en 1.0't per"tipcloionro.te
PIlur preneic. of ehich If grtma thued he animalproteis.  lbhes  utand-                        tnflottis0 oge-no   -iteete  of the popelstin..  and lcg time ter.d.  A
annar  loo  thao ihour ef 75 gran  of total p,roein and 23 grama of                       fes  stmtn   te ro  norico-ucurn
colnol p-outino ecnogofor the norld, propoun.d by PAl is the Third                            io cleednvano-Rtoefpplatien under IS and 85 aid over
tenJd Food Ser-y; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 dat-                                                  to the rtota  labor f-c.e
Percoit  yttit uPply f            aos oc -o an   polu   _ Prnteio  noppy of fondde
rie lrnaisuo and pullo Is mama Per day; 1961-65. 19701 und 1977 data.               INCOME OSDINIBT1ON
Child faton I-h) roibh Rlat  betr cbhunad) - A-Iou  deaths Per the....nd is                   P      "cso  of PrivateSIme (both in roh cud kiod   - oteiced by richest
age group 1Ayau   oeld              in thi  age group. for net deneoping noun-                 5 IpeCrot  rithest 20 pecet, poores  20 percet. and poorest 40 percen
tries dam  danced from  life  tables; 1960. 1970 and 1986 data.                        of house holds.
oELatdt                                                                                        POVERTY TARGET 100UP1
Life feponaucy6at lim h(yearn) - A--rge eunhee of yerar  of life rei.sisg                     The fullcsisg etmae re vey"Pprnlst  messs  ef p"Iety,ees
of birth; 1960, 197  Iud 1990 data,                                                            and ohocld he inteep,t,te  siebl coiderable                 POtio
IrIfa-rnttli    ae ftrey eheusand) - Actual deaths of isfunts ader ohe les                    Etstimaed Ahnolste Pevety IS -eee  fR  prcPi) - urban and rual-
rfueye  ilctoenanei.';,h,,d live hirthn; 1960, 1970on  1990 dare                            Auolote poet  lsow  ee  in then inton  !ee.            bla  he.amiia
Acon o    Scf eatrIPnre   o   pocanc)-  oa, unbm, and e-raI - Nu-                                sotritin.ally adequate diet plus essential us-fuod requiremetr is net
her of people (rota1. urban, and rural)  ith r_annuble  oc... to safe                          affordable.
eatrspyly (inel-adeu      I tre -dsrface octets or os.tretd hut onotmmtd                 Etimate  Meltie-P         t Income leel (10$ per  -apito) -  -rbai and rural-
_ctn  uh Ist.      iepeetdhrbls   oig.adsainywls   s                                        Mn   esiepvry tn   leve IiS one-turd of average per capita
Perceunges of the it  . vepeciv  popolatious.  Isa  00ban seen a public                        pernon_l inosm  of she  .oamny.  Urba  leve  is derived f roe the ror1
foun tai  or sandpost beane d nor met  tban 200 meters tree a he..- may he                     le-e  with adjustment tee bltgh   cot of'iceg1 is urbanaras
cocuidered as being minhin reas_nobl  acorn  of than h...e. .Is repel areas.                NAitmtl  oulto lo    bout   oet Is_ omeI.                       - .evl .reees)-ort
reoncoacble allens woud '-P ly tha  the h bansfe o   e tef the hamheld                        anfel-Prets  populatien  forbam  ed rural)  h. are "absolute
dosthae.  ospn,         diproporrti t  pas  ofr thdy  Isfthbig the                         Per.-
(tally'0soe -   s reds.
Access tc fE-rena Disn,o  freecut of --ylatien      oa.ubn   n   ua 
oefe  c  People (total  hro. noi    om)sie   y  org   ipsla
perenage  o  th Nt reseole  peoa Is1os.  Dtryetadaer al dpmay   end
ththlega    edr d-pesl wit  or whti-o Etresmes  e dip.-a eymera
1st iatalltio ts
Pupu'tie ret. Pheyiota   - Population dicided by suber ef penotmimg phyal-                                                           Foenmi. and ScmlI Data DNIiwii
class qoclifild tree a medial nobe1 as nel-raity Iseel                                                                       lese..mie dA-lynim  and Peje.tilem   Dspaniass
Peenlstios pmr Mssl        :-eee  - Psptsltnle  dietded by  .nbee ef praotialag                                                                  Map 1902
male -n  feal  grdeam tre           mmentuet.prattion   nae  and






- 24 -
PERU                                                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
A CT UA L                                                             ESTIMATED         PROJECLTED                 GROWTH D-ATE 1% p.o.)                   1977
NATIONAL ACCDDNTD                                               1965              197            0 970          1976            1977           1979            19Op            l9oOp           -1981              D985             1965-7b       1906-MO      1980-M5             3 of
(m-illions of -10 dollars at 1977 prices)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EDP
Croon Doesic Prodoo                                            89D2.5          1D693.6         13376.8        13640.1        13639.6         D3570.8        14D79.0          14516.4          150090.5         19092.5               3.~9          1.6          5.3               100.0
OsosfrmTsrn  ofTae610.9                                                       130.0         -216.9         -109.4             0.0         -235.9           679.0           4:11.1           317.0             599.2              0.             .             .
Gro-  Do-corl   1--n  (GDY)                                    9291.6          10823.6         13129.9        13407.7        1363.6          13334.         14706.0          1539&.5         D5399-5           19350.7               4.4           3.4          4.7               100.0
Importt                                                        1840.2           2190.1          2985.4         2697.7         217D6.8         1888.,7        2086.8           3004.6          345,5.3           372.4.7              3.3           3.7          4.4                19.8
Esportn                                                        2314.3           2616.9          1906.9         1908.9         2129.:5         2431.0         2730.1           2078.1          2632.6            2979.6             -1.0            P.           2.9                15.6
Enpnrtt, Terms of Trade Adjonied                               1703.4           27466.8         1660.D         1729 .4        2129.5          2195.3         341D.0           345D .6         2949.6            3537.8              0.1I          1 9.9         0.5                15.6
Rroo. c  Cot GP, Terms of Trade Adjosted (-   opo)              136.8           -556.7          1325.4          968.3          577.3          -386.6        -1323.,2          -446.D            505.7            196.9              00.e.a4.0
Total Cossepti-o                                               6461.3           8669.D        11 313.3        11 694.8       12 172.3        112072.3       11633.           12543.7         12990.5           15787.9              5.4            184.7                           99.2
Inv-tanot                                                     1967 .1           157.           3142.D          2741.2         2044.7          1756.0         1802.2          238821.797                                             3.-3.3                      3.3                15.0
Dometic Doologs                                                1830 .3          3154.6          1016.6         17272.0         1467.4         2D62.6         3125.4           064-.9          2409.D            3562.8             -0.1           12.5          4.6                10.8
PRICES ON DO DOLLARS (1977  180)
Deport Price rodeo                                               32.9              46.5           87.4           90.6           100.0           97.1          148.6            175.4           164.3             243.6
Imp ort PrIce loden                                             64.7              44.3           100.4           95.7          DDO.D           1f8.1          119.0           1131.0           146.7             205.1
Term  of TradeoIden                                              73.6            105 .9           87.1           94.7           100.0           90.4          124.8            133.9           012.0             118.7
AkesoIl A_verog  REchaDe Rate (Soles per 9)                      26.8             38.7            40.8           57.4           83.8           156.3          224.6           288.7            416.0                .
CIP NY SECTOR                                                         LABOR PORCE                                                        CANOE PRODUCTTIVLTY
ODTPIJT  CANO  PORCE ONE PNOD1ICITOT                                   I. Mill. of OS       ~      Perceot of              Groeth                                         Percet of           Gros,th                                         Per-et of              Gros,th
ON173PIC,S.                                                           Dolsls                      Total                Nate               In Thosoods                  Tsta1              Rate              lo DS Dollar                   AverageaC
1970          1980          1976        1980           7-0-80           19-70       1980           1970-1980              7-0-80           1976         1980          1970        1980            70-8o
Agricoltore (io-l. EfInhig)                                        1534.2        1457.8           17.3        11.8          -0.5           2011.9       2248.0           48.0      40.0         1.1             760.6        648.5          36.1        29.4          -1.6
Idoap (mne,   an., elertr., c-ste.2                               3226.3        4712.4          36.5        38.1            3.9            769.1       1037.2          18.4       18.5         3.0           4194.9       4543.4          198.6       006,2           0.8
Services (all others)                                              4884.8        6198 .1          46.2        50.1           4.3           1407.0       2328.3           33 .6     41.0         5.2           2902.0        2662 .1        137.4       120.8          -0.9
Total/A--rge                                                       8845.3       12368.3          180.R      100.0            3.4           4188.6       5615.5         400.0      100.0         3.0            2111.8       2203.3         100.0       100.0            0.4
CENTRAL  COIDERNMENT PENANCE,                                                                                                                                                         ESTEIMATED       PROJECTED
(an perc-t of C.orreo  COP)                                          1965             1970           1975          1976         1L977           1978            1979        1980         1981             1982
C-rreot Revss13.2                                                                     14.6           14.0            13.4         13.5          14.3           16.0         19.4          16.6            17.2
Corret Dpeoditare                                                    12.6             12.1           14.4            14.8         16.9          15.8           12.8         16.2          16.5            15.7
C-orrot Sa_Dogs                                                        0.8             2.3           -0.4           -1.4          -3.4          -1 5            3.2          2.2           0.1             1.5
Capital Espeoditares                                                  3.9              3.7            4.5             4.5          3.5           3.1           _3.7          4.7           4.6             4.1
Rorro1 Asaist..ce (Net)                                                1.0             0.5            2.3             1.8          3.0           0.4           -0.7          0.3           0.3              0
CDPRSCNT EXPENDITUREnorDETA                                                                        AC T UA L 
(speocet of Total Corret Dopeoditore)                              1968            1973            1976          1977          19-78                           DETAIL EN                                           19618i5SDe-eipisel Pimo
PUDLIC SECTOR                                          EN S             1 Total
Edacotioo                                                            30.6             27.9           22.9            18.1         16.1                           ON8EDTMOENT PNOGRAM                                    Million
Hcoith                                                                 9.0             6.3            6.2             4.7          6.0                                                                                1981 Price
Agticldtore                                                            3.6             4.4            1.8             1.3          3.4
Other Ec_-ami  Serolce                                                 3.2             4.0            0.2             3.0          2.7                           Agricaltore, PishioN                                   1557.2             14.1
Gesro  'Sorices (iorldioN defens)                                    46.4             42.7           46 .9           54.1        492                             Iodootey. T-oina end MieDog                             924.11             8.3
lorer-st  oe Debt                                                     5.4             11.3           10.8           15.          241Eeg2681                                                                                                24.2
Other                                                                  1.8             3.3            6.2             3.5          2.5                           Troospert ood Co-mnketion                              2547.2             23.0
Socal1 sod CocoI Usterest Projects                    3367.6             30.4
Toto1 Corret  npeoditCore                                         18000           100.0           100.0          iOO.O        100.0
T 0 T A C                                       11084.2            100.0
MONEY AND0 CRDEIT                                                      1973          1974          1975          1975          1976          1976         1977          1977          1678           1978          1979          1978           1980           1981 p
(Billiloo of Soles ootst.aodog
atrho e-d of period)
Moe  adQos -Noe                                              98.3         12D.0         101.8         142.4          166.3         166.8        216.2         220.5         344.1         361.1         686.4          725.9         1305.1         1973.5
Nook Credt to Pobic Ocra7.2                                                          269          49.7           60.3         101.4         1D5.3        149.3         189           262.2         537            204.1         237.0          371.3           682.2
Sank- Credit to Prvate Sector                                         73.2           84.5         108,2         109.8         134.9         136.0        167.8         173.8         233.1         243.2          382.8         442.5          801.8          1521.8
U.ederipig  RohsisDte (S/. per US$)                                    38.7          38.7          38.7          69.0          65.0          85.0         85.0         160.0         160.0         225.0          223.0         390.0          390.0           390.0
M000  os Pr--et of CUP                                                 25.0          24.3          22.6          22.7          20.0          20.1         19.9          19.3          18.7           19.6          19.9          21.1            23.3           20.7
Co-smo  Price lodv-  io Soles (1977-100)                            37.5          43.9          54.3                         72.4                      100.0                       157.8                       264.7                         421.4
A-ool Perc-otoge Change Eo:
C...ase  PrEen Ideo km Doles                                         9.5          16.9          23.7                         33.5                       38.0                        57.8                        67.7                          59.2            75.4
Nook Credit to Poblic Nectar                                        53.7          -1.2          84.8                         68.2                       29.5                        31.8                       -32.8                          56.8            83.6
Sank Credit to Private Sector                                       27.7          13.5          28.1                         22.4                       23.4                        34.1                        57.4                          81.2            89.8






- -. -                      -  - -. - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ---       - -
9 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
---- ---~ --I                                  ---            . - - -   - -






- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Amount
Loan                                                          (less cancellations)
Number      Year           Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
--- US$ million ---
27 loans fully disbursed                                        409.2
949        1973    Republic of Peru        Education            24.0         1.9
1196        1976    Republic of Peru        Transport            76.5        22.0
1215        1976    Republic of Peru        Power                35.6         4.9
1281        1976    CENTROMIN               Mining               39.7         4.7
1283        1976    Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.           21.6         9.6
1358        1977    COFIDE                  Industry             35.0         3.9
1403        1977    Republic of Peru        Agriculture          25.0        21.3
S-il        1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         8.8         2.5
1771       1980    Republic of Peru         Irrigation           56.0        51.1
1806        1980    PETROPERU               Petroleum Prod.    32.5          27.0
1812        1980    Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.           15.0        14.4
1888        1980    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         7.5         5.1
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.       5.0          4.7
1963        1981    CORPAC                  Aviation             58.0        57.6
1968        1981    COFIDE                  Industry             60.0        60.0
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU             Power                25.0        25.0
2064        1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        26.0
2091        1982    Republic of Peru        Transport            93.0        93.0
2117        1982    PETROPERU               Industry              5.3          5.3
Total                                                    1,058.7
of which has been repaid                                 183.5
Total now outstanding                                      75.2
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid             18.3               _
Total now held by Bank                                     875.2
Total undisbursed                                                      440.0
1/   Since March, the Bank has approved three further loans to Peru:  (i) US$40.6
million for a Lima Water Supply Project, presented to the Board on May 11,
1982; (ii) US$40.6 million for an Agriculture Research and Extension Project,
presented to the Board on May 20, 1982; and (iii) US$81.2 million for a Sixth
Power Project, presented to the Board on June 15, 1982.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of
Year                Obligor                       Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1960        Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances   0.2        -       0.2
1960        Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks              0.3      -       0.3
1960        Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials          0.3       -      0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers           4.1       -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.               Cement              2.3     0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement              1.1     0.5      1.6
1975        Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining             15.0      -      15.0
1978        Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining             2.0      0.5      2.5
1980        Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining             2.7      0.5      3.2
1981        Sogewiese                          Leasing             3.0     0.1      3.1
1981        Consorcio Energetico de            Power
Huancavelica                    Transmission        4.5      -       4.5
Total gross commitments                              35.5     1.8    37.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            18.0      0.4    18.4
Total held by IFC                                    17.5     1.4    18.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                              8.2       -       8.2



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year.
Final disbursement requests are now being submitted and an extension of the
closing date is not contemplated.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s. CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Development Project;-US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date:  January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$12.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s. In view of this,
the Borrower -- the National Development Bank (COFIDE) -- agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systemi
are to be improved. The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and constnrction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project implementation is well underway and proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution is proceeding well.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The feasibility report for the phosphate fertilizer project has been
completed.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million-Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPEREU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU..
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; US$58.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31,-1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan-of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date:  February 25, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of June 16, 1982;
Effective Date:                      ; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Initial subloan requests are now under review.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date:                      ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This loan was approved by the Board on February 16, 1982.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
Effective Date:                        ; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was approved by the Board on March 25, 1982 and is expected
to be signed shortly. Consultants are now being selected.
Loan 2139-PE:    Lima Water Supply Project; US$40.6 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date:                      ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1988.
This loan was approved by the Board on May 11, 1982.
Loan 2150-PE:    Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$40.6 million
Loan of           -  ; Effective Date:                  * Closing Date
March 31, 1988.
This loan was approved by the Board on May 20, 1982. Some project
consultants, to be retroactively financed, have been contracted.
Loan   -PE:        Sixth Power Project;  US$81.2 million Loan of
Effective Date:                        ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1988.
This loan was approved by the Board on June 15, 1982. It is expected
to be signed shortly.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION ENHANCEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country
to prepare project:              Twelve months
(b) Project prepared by:               PETROPERU with Bank assistance
(c) First presentation to the Bank:  May 1981
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:  October 1981
(e) Completion of negotiations:        July 2, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:   November 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
It has been agreed that:
(a)   PETROPERU would take all steps necessary to maintain the
competitiveness of its professional staff salaries and other staff
benefits with those of private petroleum companies operating in Peru
and would, until the closing date of the loan, advise the Bank at least
once a year on any professional vacancies in its exploration or
production departments and the action it intends to take to fill such
vacancies (para. 44);
(b)   as a condition of loan disbursement for wells to be drilled or
reactivated, PETROPERU would, by October 31 of each year, present an
updated technical and economic justification satisfactory to the Bank
for such activity and the Bank would provide its response within 15
working days of receipt of the report; it would also exchange views
with the Bank from time to time on the well-spacing study and project
feasibility studies for adjacent areas, including its programs to
implement these studies (para. 58);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) As conditions of loan effectiveness, PETROPERU would appoint all project
consultants, contract a project management service company and select
staff for training; both project consultants and the management company
would be satisfactory to he Bank as would their terms and conditions of
employment (paras. 58 and 59);
(d) PETROPERU would exchange views with the Bank on the proposed PETROPERU
five year investment program at least 90 days prior to the end of the
preceeding year, and revisions agreed upon would be incorporated therein
(para. 68);
(e) PETROPERU would: (i) attain quick ratios of 0.7 by year-end 1982, 0.9
by December 31, 1983 and 1.0 in 1984 and thereafter; (ii) maintain debt
service coverage ratios of 1.9 in 1982 and 2.0 in 1983 and thereafter;
and (iii) not incur any debt without Bank approval unless its
debt/equity ratio is at least 70/30 in 1982 and 60/40 in 1983 and
thereafter (para. 70); and
(f) the Government would reinvest dividends from PETROPERU to the extent
l.at *uch funds would be necessary to finance PETROPERU investment
-ogram agreed with the Bank (para. 71).



812WO                                                    SPIC                   -i5 ,                                O
BEL CO            '                'an/or
/   *                  LsOgn  sV                                                               "0
10, ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     X              !4-1/0
vD   A    C     /             -!                   .                                      :
20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
A R E   A    L      I   M   A   r n   I               s
______  ~       ~          PTRLEMPROUTO     NACMN     RJC
__       _ __ _    __ __ _                               ___r _
4'20       i j ,   \    E   | /P                                                                                     il f'20'
O    C    $/ A    />/,'   L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,r    '        ,           ''~~~~BE C
__           _,T RPERU 1 - 
FI-
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, pI ,.   S,-
PRadoingilfild
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,  ,_   'tFi-
-- 00 3CCphI,-  f
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cr=d oil = -PipEliRU
030  i \      2  3   PACIFIC    COTan farms
X . . d X ==_____                                                                            ferdcngoficerds
\ , 2 '                                                   8     / |   CCDf./LtE/A
> ^*= '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Wter  ii Cue lfsctlir on  popStOtineS
~~~~~~~"                   "A/, A ANK'Refinery;
f ,,'  '  2   = m  ,_-        ,                  it                                     -W~~~~~~~*  ate3r niectioe ines
j  -'   f    4_r\R                                                            -  - R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oads
.1  g     =     F~~~~~~~~~~____                                                                 300 -Depth lines in feet
! 1' ,.rite                         _        _        __ _/            S
'1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" £' M)l_                                                                                                   4'4
4~~~ 40-~                                            'nh e- , .       ,                                                                       0
1,    \          >              =~,                                                           KiLOMETEPSO    0   3 4 S  a 7 3  0  0            U3
\    87a20                                                   81 iO                          nina-n Ovmmlnan 3h brn  I                    a /O itr  ve dXE



