LOAN NUMBER 2195 PE
DOCMENTS
Guarantee Agreement
(Petroleum Production Enhancement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                A ,         , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2195 PE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Petroleos del Peru, PETROPERU S.A. (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to eighty-one million two
hundred  thousand  dollars   ($81,200,000),  on  the  terms  and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW TdEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement, and in
the Preamble to, and in Section 1.02 of, the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its  other  obligations   under  the  Guarantee  Agreement,  the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor


﻿- 2 -
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
take all action necessary to permit the Borrower to comply with
its obligations under Section 5.04 of the Loan Agrement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member.
(b) It is the policy of the Guarantor not to grant, in
normal circumstances, specific security to its lenders or to the
lenders of the subdivisions or entities referred to in paragraph
(e) of this Section.
(c) If, notwithstanding the aforesaid, any lien shall be
created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as
security for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in
the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto, and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the


﻿-3-
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the creation of such
lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by
an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the
Bank.
(d) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purposes of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(e) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall collect, or cause to be
collected from the Borrower, the fee or fees referred to in
Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. Notwithstanding the Borrower's obligations
under Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement, if the Borrower shall
have not maintained for any of the Borrower's Fiscal Years speci-
fied in paragraph (b) of such Section the debt service coverage
ratio set forth in such paragraph for such Fiscal Year, the Gua-
rantor shall, not later than 120 days after the end of the Fiscal
Year in question, take all action as shall be necessary to bring
the debt service coverage ratio to the limit required for the
Fiscal Year in question and to enable the Borrower to meet in the
next following Fiscal Year the required ratio.
Section 3.04. With the purpose of assisting in the strength-
ening of the capital structure of the Borrower, the Guarantor


﻿-4-
undertakes, on each occasion a cash dividend is declared by the
Borrower, to make one or more contributions to the Borrower's
equity in amounts equivalent to the amount of such dividend, each
such contribution to be made by way of compensation of any right
the Guarantor, or any agency thereof, may have for collecting the
amount of the cash dividend in question; provided, however, that
the provisions of this Section shall apply only to the extent the
amount of the cash dividend in question shall be required to en-
able the Borrower to carry out the revised five-year program
referred to in Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement in effect at
the time such cash dividend has been declared.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Guarantor's Minister of Economy, Finance
and Commerce and the Director General de Cr6dito PU'blico are
severally designated as representatives of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economfa
y Finanzas
Avda. Abancay 5ta Cuadra
Lima, Peru
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINDEF                             20187
Lima                              PU MINDEF
With copies to:
Ministro de Energfa y Minas
Ministerio de Energfa y Minas
Lima, Peru
Cable address:                     Telex:
MEM                                25731
Lima                              PU MEM


﻿-5-
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex*
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of Ameri*a, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPULIC OF PERU
By
Authorized Representative
INTEFNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Lrtin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In vitness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   14     day of '     , 198
FOR SPCRETARY


