Document of
The World Bank
For Official Use Only
Report No. T-6320-GH
TECINICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 2, 1994
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwiwe be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1994)
Currency unit        = Cedis (Z)
US$1                 = ¢996
el                   = US$0.0011
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATION
APDF          Africa Project Development Facility
AGD           Attorney General's Department
BRRI          Building Roads Research Insttute
BOG           Bank of Ghana
CSIR          Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DAPIT         Development and Application of Intermediate Technologies
EMPRETEC    Empretec Ghana Foundation
FRI           Food Research Insttute
GSB           Ghana Standards Board
GTFA          Ghana Trade Fair Authority
IRI           Indusbtial Research Institute
ISO           International Standards Organization
MFEP          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MEST          Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology
MTI           Ministry of Trade and Industry
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
NPART         Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
ODA           Overseas Development Administation (U.K.)
PCT           Project Coordinating Team
PEED          Private Enterprise and Export Development Project
PEF           Private Enterprise Foundation
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PSAC          Private Sector Adjustment Credit
ROG           Republic of Ghna
RPED          Regional PrOgram on Enterprise Development
SIC           Sciendfic Instrumentation Center
SSA           Sub-Saharan Africa
TEDF          Technology and Enterprise Development Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CON1TENTS
Private Sector Background   .......................................                                                  I
Project Components   ...........................................                                                     6
(i) Commercialization of Research and Development  ..................    6
(ii) Technology and Enterprise Development Fund  ....................   15
(iii) Rehabilitation and Commercialization of the Ghana
Trade Fair Authority  .................................   20
(iv) Industrial Design Center  .................................   21
(v) Legal Assistance and Diagnostic Study .........................   22
Project Cost and Financing Plan  ....................................   23
Technical Assistance .........................................    24
Supervising Agency ............................................    24
Procurement  ................................................    25
Disbursement ........................                                                                               25
Account and Audit Arrangement ........................  26
Monitoring and Progress Reporting ........................  26






GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Private Sector Background
1.    During the early to mid-1980s macroeconomic conditions in Ghana have had a pervasive influence
on the private sector through their effects on the production and investment climate in which private
producers operate. Not surprisingly, empirical analysis I/ has also shown that uncertainty has caused
investors to be extremely cautious in their capacity expansion decisions. This includes uncertainty
regarding future demand, exchange rates, interest rates, inflation and price levels. In the short-run,
stabilization and adjustment programs increased uncertainty because of devaluation and changes in the
incentive framework, and thus may have dampened investment. In addition, high interest rates on
Government paper have attracted capital, at the expense of uncertain, less profitable investments. This
is thought to be one explanation for the initial drop in private investment in the economy, at least in the
early years of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP).
2.    In the latter part of the period (1989-1990), the situation improved with private investment having
grown from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1988 to 8.4 percent in 1990. Its continued growth, however, has
been impeded in recent years by macroeconomic uncertainty; in 1993 private investment declined to 4.4
percent of GDP. While state enterprises continue to dominate the economy, the Government has taken
measures through the activities of bodies like the Private Sector Advisory Group and Private Sector
Roundtable to promote private sector development and accelerate the privatization of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs). The Government's commitment to prudent and stable policies that bear strongly on
investment decisions such as the exchange rate, monetary policy and the divestiture of public enterprises
have improved private sector perceptions about Ghana as a place in which to invest.
3.     Structure. The structure of the Ghanaian private sector is characterized by a preponderance of
small- to medium-scale enterprises. 2/ Ninety-two percent of the 8,351 Ghanaian enterprises, the total
number of enterprises enumerated during the 1987 industrial census, were small scale. Medium- and
large-scale enterprises accounted for only 8 percent of the total number of industrial establishments in the
country. There were only 52 firms, or 0.6 percent of the total, employing 500 or more workers.
However, the Government still holds about 25 percent of the medium and large scale enterprises. Such
enterprises accounted for about 40 and 44 percent of employment and value added, respectively.
4.     According to the 1987 industrial census, manufacture of wearing apparel (excluding footwear)
is the leading small scale industrial activity, followed by wood-related industries, food manufacturing,
shoemaking and shoe repair, manufacture and repair of fabricated metal products, and motor fitting and
1/    "Technological Capabilities and Industrial Development in Ghana", Draft World Bank Report,
March 1993.
2/     With respect to size, manufacturing enterprises in Ghana are classified on the basis of number
of people employed. In Ghana's Statistical Services's Industrial Statistics, medium and large
scale enterprises are defined as those employing 30 or more workers; the rest are considered
as micro and small enterprises.



bodyworks.  Mledium- and large-scale enterprises are found in food processing, beverages, tobacco,
textiles, wood-related industries, petroleum refining, aluminum and other basic metals, rubber, chemicals
including pharmaceuticals, plastics, cement and other building materials, and paper and printing. The
largest enterprises, in terms of value of fixed assets and size of employment, include the Valco aluminum
smelter, sawmills and timber processing plants, cocoa processing plants, brewing, cement manufacture,
oil refining, textiles and vehicle assembly.
Table 2.1: ANNUAL INDICES OF MEDIUM AND LARGE-SCALE
MANUFACTURING PRODUCIION, 1985-90
(U77 = 100)
Industry Grouping                 Weight   1985   1986  1987   1988  1989  1990   1991  1992
1. Food manufacturing              15.00   41.8   40.6  50.5   53.6  48.0  57.5   59.3  62.8
2. Beverage industries              8.11   59.3   75.1  85.2   89.0  98.0  94.0   93.0  112.2
3. Tobacco & tobacco products       7.75   61.3   57.6  54.9   58.0   51.0  57.1   49.6  47.1
4. Textile, wearing apparel
and leather goods             13.71   19.2   22.9  26.1    28.7  24.0  37.7   39.1   23.7
5. Sawmill and wood products        7.22   75.4   79.5  79.3   98.3  80.0  74.2   133.6  120.2
6. Paper products and printing      1.94   65.1   70.5  59.7   52.8  48.0  53.5   49.3   54.6
7. Petroleum refinery               19.00   80.6   76.6  62.7   67.7   87.2  70.5   92.2  65.0
8. Chemical products other
than petroleum                 6.56   31.8   38.0  51.9   67.5   62.0  57.6   44.7   56.7
9. Cement and other non-metallic
mineral products               2.98   63.6   47.4  49.7   73.4  100.0  117.3  125.6  177.0
10. Iron and steel products         3.25   46.2   38.8  42.9   18.3  12.1   5.2           - 356.0
11. Non-ferrous metal basic
industries                     9.62   28.4   72.5  90.3   97.3  100.5  103.8  104.6  115.8
12. Cutlery and other non-ferrous
metal products                 0.49   34.6   55.2  51.9   46.2  47.9  55.2   63.2  83.3
13. Electrical equipment and
appliances                     1.34   28.4   51.0  31.5   47.1   13.5  25.5   40.0  46.3
14. Transport equipment and other
products n.e.c.                 3.03      -       -      -       -      -      -       -   11.0
15. All manufacturing               100.0   49.3   54.2  56.8   62.1   63.0  63.5   71.3   76.9
Source: Ghana Statistical Service, Ouarterh Divest of Statistics Vol. 11, No. 2, June 1993.
5.     The above statistics are only indicative of the current situation of the private sector since in 1987
the program of divestiture was inaugurated and there has been a progressive shift towards the private
sector. In the absence of another national survey, at this stage, the new ratios are difficult to quantify,
but the size of the private sector has clearly increased, and its activities have been diversified.
6.      Perrormance.  Ghana's manufacturing sector has been characterized by low rates of capacity
utilization for many years. The average rate of capacity utilization during the period 1970-1977 was in
the range of 43-52 percent. The utilization rates worsened in the late 1970s and early 1980s as the
country's ability to import raw materials and spare parts diminished. By 1984 the average capacity



-3-
utilization had fallen to 18 percent. It rose again in 1985 to 25 percent, in 1987 to 35 percent, and in
1988 and 1989 appears to have plateaued at about 40 percent as the ERP got underway. Disappointingly,
however by the start of the decade manufacturing's share of GDP had fallen to 9.2 percent in 1990 from
11.5 percent in 1985 and an all time high of 14 percent in 1970.
7.     The reversal of the downward trend in capacity utilization was accomplished through an improved
business environment and greater availability of resources, especially foreign exchange. Significant and
continuous increases in utilization have been realized especially in agro-based industries, wood-
processing, tobacco, beverages, chemicals and non-metallic mineral products. While in 1984 all 16 sub-
sectors, except one, operated at average rates below 30 percent, in 1989 only three operated at less than
30 percent, and four were over 50 percent. After years where the lack of foreign exchange was the
major factor limiting capacity utilization, the main limiting factors now are shortages of credit especially
long-term, competition from imports that are now readily available, and the generally soft market demand
and the continued presence of a large group of static, distressed enterprises. Private sector development
in Ghana remains constrained by the predominant role of public enterprises, continued financial sector
weakness, limited technological capability of private enterprises, and infrastructure bottlenecks. IDA is
addressing these constraints through a multi-faceted approach and will focus its private sector lending on
reforms in the regulatory environment, public enterprise divestiture, and building technological
infrastructure.
Past Programs and Achievements
8.     Much of the liberalization and progress achieved in the business environment can be attributed
to the strong presence of IDA and the World Bank group over the years as summarized in Table 2.2
below. The World Bank Group has been associated with the industrial sector in Ghana since 1975, when
it approved its first credit to the National Investment Bank, then Ghana's main development finance
institution, to encourage the development of mainly domestic resource-based small and medium
enterprises that were capable of contributing to foreign exchange earnings and savings.



- 4 -
Table 2.2: PRIOR IDA ASSISTANCE TO PRIV'ATE SECTOR
Investment Credits                  Dates          MIain Characteristics
National Investment Bank, Export Rehabilitation,    1975-1992   Development of small and
Reconstruction, Public Enterprise TA, Private               medium enterprises, technical
Small and Medium Enterprise Development                     assistance and long-term capital.
Credit, Private Enterpnrse and Export                       Financing of inputs, initiating of
Development Credit                                          divestiture process and further
term credit support to private
enterprises. Pre- and post-
shipment financing for private
exporters and additional training
and inputs to strengthen export
capacity.
Structural Adjustment Credits
Industrial Sector, Financial Sector I and 11 and  1986-1991   Increasing industrial capacity
Private Investment and Development                          and modified corporate
restructuring assistance to
distressed banks and the
financial sector with a
continuing effort to strengthen
the overall financial system.
Most recent credit addressed
enabling and regulating
requirement to strengthen
private sector.
9.     The credits of the late 1970s and early 1980s focussed mainly on providing foreign exchange and
stimulating exports to cope with the main impediment then, lack of foreign exchange. While the lines
of credit were somewhat slow in disbursing due to the severely depressed state of the economy at that
time, the adjustment credits have been notably successful in laying the groundwork of such key reforms
as exchange rate and price liberalization, import liberalization, export promotion measures and regulatory
reform, all of which measures have been sustained by the Government. All this resulted in greater
availability of foreign exchange for domestic manufacturers; export earnings, especially from non-
traditional exports, improved; production of locally manufactured goods increased; and project analysis,
evaluation and supervision capabilities of participating financial institutions and agencies improved.
Implementation experience under these various projects has been generally good.
10.    At the end of the 1980s, despite much of the progress throughout the decade, the main issues
were still an unsatisfactory supply response and an increasingly distressed financial sector. IDA strategy
focussed on continuing to support reforms and on addressing these issues. The Private Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Credit of 1989 was to provide credit to finance the short and long term
credit needs of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), provide equipment lease financing, strengthen
technical and institutional capabilities of the central bank, the Bank of Ghana (BOG), and train
participating financial institutions (PFls) in project analysis and term financing. Implementation of the
project is satisfactory and the objectives of the project are being met. However, sustained lending to



- 5 -
SMEs rests on high recovery rates which in turn is partly dependent on the banks' capacity to adequately
appraise and intensiveiy supervise projects.  Given weaknesses ir, these areas, continued technical
assistance is being provided to train staff in the BOG and participating banks to achieve high recovery
rates by focusing on implementation problems before they become repayment problems.
II.    Two financial sector adjustment projects, the First Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC
I) in 1988 and the Second Financial Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II) in 1991, were designed to address
the financial sector distress. The first addressed resource mobilization and credit allocation in the
financial system as well as improvements in the regulatory framework of the banking system and
restructuring of distressed banks. The project was also committed to the broadening and deepening of
the capital markets. The second credit was intended to continue the program to restructure the formerly
distressed banks and improve their financial and operational performance, pursue the recovery of non-
performing assets taken over by the Non-Performing Asset Recovery Trust (NPART), created under the
project, strengthen competition and efficiency within the banking sector through divestiture of public
ownership in all banks and through rationalization of taxation on bank profits, improve the capacity and
efficiency of the BOG, prepare for the future development of the financial sector by setting up an
appropriate institutional framework for non-bank financial institutions by studying the informal markets
and upgrading the banking, accounting, and insurance professions.
12.   In 1991, a third sector adjustment credit was approved to promote private investment. This credit
was aimed at creating an enabling environment for private investment; maintaining macroeconomic
stability; undertaking tax reform to improve incentives for private investment and savings; taking steps
to make the regulatory environment in Ghana more consistent with the liberalized economy; making
further progress on state enterprise reform; and maintaining the momentum of reforms designed to
increase the efficiency with which public resources are used and thereby enhancing their support of
private sector development.  Following the initiation of a structured and result-oriented process of
consultation and active problem solving between the Government and the private sector (through the
creation of the Private Sector Advisory Group (PSAG)), the environment for meeting the objectives of
the project has been enhanced as policy, institutional, and regulatory reforms governing the private sector
were made in compliance with conditions set for the release of the third tranche.
13.   In 1993, in parallel with the USAID Trade and Investment Project, IDA approved the Private
Enterprise and Export Development Project as a continuing series of investment credits. As its name
implies, the primary thrust of this credit (which became effective in December 1993) is to provide support
to the private sector in its efforts to develop non-traditional exports (NTEs). Through a combination of
a pre- and post-shipment short term line of credit and export guarantee component as well as a small
technical assistance component, the credit has as its objective increasing not only the absolute volume of
NTEs but perhaps even more importantly increasing the export consciousness of the private sector
through training and capacity building.
14.   IFC has also played an important role, especially in mobilizing direct foreign investment, in the
development of the private sector since the initiation of the reforms. It has been particularly active in
the private financial sector, supporting the development of a private investment bank, Continental
Acceptance, Ltd., the second discount house, Securities Discount House, and a new leasing company.
IFC will continue to support the rehabilitation and expansion of gold mining, and locally-based firms in
the manufacturing and agro-processing sectors. Support for medium scale enterprises will be provided
through the Africa Enterprise Fund (AEF) and the Africa Project Development Facility (APDF). The
response of Ghanaian entrepreneurs to the AEF and the APDF has been strong.



-6 -
Project Components
(i) Commercialization of Research and Development (US$6.4 million)
15.    Overview. Many of Ghana's past technological deficiencies have been caused by an incentive
structure that was inimical to competition and technological effort. There are now numerous initiatives
underway to correct these deficiencies such as the enactment in September 1994 of a newly liberalized
investment code, the Ghana Investment Promotion Centre Act, multilateral and bilateral assistance
programs aimed at improved marketing and production skills for enterprises, and improved skills and
training for the financial sector to assist companies with their credit needs. Nevertheless, the evocation
of a sustainable supply response also depends on the ability of the industrial and manufacturing sectors
to undertake the necessary technological effort. Technology upgrading will be critical to the future
growth of industry. If Ghana's manufacturers are to compete with imports, diversify their output, and
launch into competitive exporting, they will have to utilize new and existing technologies with much
higher levels of efficiency than in the past and achieve quality standards consistent with overseas
requirements. Though the relevant equipment and basic technological knowledge will be predominantly
imported, the acquisition of technological mastery and capacity will be costly, difficult, and protracted
calling for considerable partnership effort on the part of enterprises as well as the supporting research
and development (R&D) institutions.
i6.   It is a striking fact that in Ghana practically all industrial R&D is conducted by public institutions
rather than by private enterprises. The largest of these is the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR). The four institutes in its network involved in R&D relevant to manufacturing industry
and which are the special focus of this project are: the Building and Roads Research Institute (BRRI), the
Food Research Institute (FRI), the Industrial Research Institute (IRI), and the Scientific Instrumentation
Center (SIC). While the BRRI's main focus is building and road construction, it also works on problems
relevant to the building materials industry. The functions of the FRI and the IRI are to develop and
disseminate technologies for use in manufacturing industry and to conduct technological work on behalf
of industrial enterprises. The SIC's role is to provide technical support services such as equipment
calibration and specialized spare parts manufacture to both the CSIR and outside clients.
17.    Two institutions are responsible for the identification, development and diffusion of intermediate
technologies for small and micro-enterprises: Development and Application of Intermediate Technologies
(DAPIT) and Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology Industrial Service (GRATIS). The main function
of these groups is to encourage the commercial application of known technologies by small- and medium-
sized enterprises.
18.    Two other institutions support Ghana's industrial technology. One is the Ghana Atomic Energy
Commission (GAEC). Its mandate is to pursue the peaceful use of atomic energy, but it has also recently
started a digital electronics laboratory to provide local repair service for personal computers (PCs) and
other electronic equipment, interfacing of PCs to machinery for industry, and some custom digital design.
The other is the University of Science and Technology (UST), Ghana's only engineering school and a
major source of its trained, technical manpower. It also runs the Technology Consultancy Center (TCC)
which provides manufacturing extension services to industry and which was the model for GRATIS'
intermediate technology transfer units (ITTUs).
19.    The Ghana Standards Board (GSB), also a beneficiary under the project, is responsible for
drafting and implementing national standards in the country. It has a wide range of responsibilities in-
cluding food and drug standards, engineered products, materials, building codes, environmental controls,



and others. It operates a mandatory system of product certification under which all manufacturers are
required by law to have their products certified as being of acceptable quality, along the lines of the
International Standards Organization (ISO) "System 5."_I! The system has not proven to be workable
in Ghana in the absence of both resources and published engineering standards. The lack of awareness
of the ISO 9000 series means that GSB certification has little value in countries that adhere to interna-
tional standards.
20.    It is evident that the R&D effort and quality control for and on behalf of industry is insufficient
to make a significant contribution to the absorption, adaptation, or creation of technology. Apart even
from the quantity of technological work, there are serious problems concerning its quality and relevance.
Many reports, official and otherwise, give the impression that the work carried out by the CSIR institutes
is largely unrelated to the problems facing Ghanaian manufacturing enterprises, and very little of the
R&D results in commercial application. The quality of the work is variable, and the laboratories are
generally poorly equipped. While the CSIR provides some useful services to industry, these appear to
be only a tiny fraction of its activities.
I/ ISO "System 5" is an intermediate, lower stage set of international standards.



- 8 -
Table 2.3:41  Linkages with Science and TechnologN Institutions: frequency of use last year (A) and perceived quality of service (B).
Firm al                                Food Research    Ghana               Kumasi           1 GRATIS               Other
Insillute         Standards         Technical
Board             Universrty
(A)      (B)      (A)       (B)     (A)       (B)       (A)       (B)       (A)       (B)
Textils and garments
TGI                                    0                  0                 0                   0                   0
TG2                                    0                  2                 0         -         0                   0
TG3                                    0                  0                 1         2         0                   0
TG4                                    0                  1         3       0                   0                   0
TG5                                    0                  1         4       0                   0                   0
TG6                                    0                  0         -       0                   0                   0
TG7                                    0                  0                 0                   0                   0
TG3                                    0                  0                 0                   0                   0
Food processing
FPI                                    2         3        1         3       0                   0                   0
FP2                                    52        3        1         -       0                   0                   0
FP3                                     I        -       2          3       0                   0                   0
FP4                                    0         -        0         -       0                   0         -         0
FP5                                    4         3        12        -       0                   2         3         0
FP6                                    0         -        1         3       00                            0         -O
FP6                                    2         3        4         -       0                   0         -         0
Wood working
WWI                                    0         -        0                 0                   0         -         3         5
WW2                                     0                 0                 0                   0         -         0 
WW3                                     0                 0                 0                   0         -         0 
WW4                                    0                  1         2       0                   0         -         0
WW5                                    0                           0         -        0                   0         -O
WW6                                    0                  0                 0                   0         -         0 
WW7                                     0                 0                 0                   0         -         0 
WWS                                     0                 0                           0         -         00
Metal working
MWI                                     0                 0                 0                   0         -         0 
MW2                                     0                 2         3       O0                  -                   5         4
MW3                                     0                 1         2       0                   0         -         0
MW4                                     0                 I                 0                   0         -         0
MWS                                     0                 0                 0                   0         -         0 
MW6                                     0                 0                 0         -         0         -         0
MW7                                     0                 1         2       1         2         0         -         0
MWS                                     0                 0         -       6         2         0         -         0
MW9                                     0                 0                 0         -         0                   0
p/ Represents the major finns in each sector.
(A) Number of times this institution was used last year. (B) Rating is on a scale of I to 5, whert I is very poor and 5 is very good.
21.      The most effective way to ensure that the country's science and technology institutions serve
the needs of industry is to commercialize them -- to insist that each one derive some of its revenues
4/        Based on 32 sample companies in "Technological Capabilities and Industrial Development in
Ghana." Draft World Bank report, 1993.



from work carried out for the private sector. The Government of Ghana agrees that commercializing
the R&D establishment is a priority, and it has already begun doing so. For example, it has drafted
a new CSIR law and launched the National Science and Technology Foundation (NASTEF) with
significant private sector support. In addition, it has changed the compensation system of its science
and technology institutions so that staff can share in the profits of work they carry out for industry.
However, a stronger link is still required as the private sector has indicated that its most critical,
unmet needs are for services which a commercialized R&D establishment could and should provide
such as a local source of specialized or adapted technologies and spare parts, assistance with quality
control, and information systems.
22.    Many other countries, such as Australia, India, Mexico, the Netherlands, and South Africa,
have commercialized their R&D establishments, and their experiences can be a useful guide for
Ghana for several reasons. First, their institutions serve the same function -- to provide industry with
technology. For countries like Australia and the Netherlands, it is high technology. For Ghana, it
is appropriate or intermediate technology. Second, the CSIR institutions in the British Common-
wealth, such as those in Australia, India, and South Africa, were all set up around the same time and
with the same structure and function. More importantly, all of these countries chose commercializa-
tion as the way to make their R&D establishment responsive to industry's needs. Therefore, their
experiences can provide valuable insights for Ghana which itself is a Commonwealth country.
Finally, management at Ghanaian R&D institutions regularly referred to the experience of these other
countries and saw it as relevant.
23.    Project Objectives.  While the demand side for technology is being steadily advanced
through various programs and improved incentives such as a USAID Trade and Investment Project,
other bilateral donor programs aimed at upgrading manufacturing industries, Govermnent
liberalization of the Investment Code, and the enactment of sound intellectual property legislation,
it is clear in Ghana that the institutional supply side is still in need of improvement. The three
traditional institutional supply building blocks for industrial technology development are skills,
capital, and information on technology and standards. It is with these categories that this project is
primarily concerned. It will he the central objective of this component to finance the reorganization
and focusing of the four industrially-oriented CSIR institutes, the FRI, the IRI, the SIC and the BRRI
and the GSB along commercially-based lines so as to provide more effectively the linkages with
regard to the delivery of skills and the development of information and standards to industry. The
project will not include: DAPIT since its focus is agricultural, its functions could be performed by
the CSIR, and it is very small; the GAEC since its needs are few; GRATIS since it is already
receiving significant financing from other donor agencies; and the UST since it is an educational
institution rather than a provider of technical services to industry.
24.    CSIR. During preparation of this project, a plan5f was developed for commercialization
of the CSIR which was reviewed and discussed in depth with the CSIR and the Ministry of
Environment, Science and Technology (MEST). The plan originally envisaged a three to five year
implementation program to meet the following objectives:
5I "Making Ghana's Industrial R&D Effective." January 1994. Report prepared on behalf of the
World Bank and available upon request.



- 10 -
Stage 1:      Build consensus among stakeholders
Change legal status
Conduct internal and external reviews
Restructure management
Reallocate human resources
Develop institutional business plans
Stage 2:      Market the new CSIR
Continue retraining
Establish industry linkages
Develop international relations
Determine with industry appropriate technologies
Continue process of streamlining
Evaluate progress
Stage 3:      Develop products and services for industry
Develop medium and long-term strategic plans
Build a management information system
Continue organizational restructuring
Evaluate progress
25.    Following appraisal, it was felt that its implementation timing should be dictated more by
events, rather than the calendar; it will take closer to five years than three to complete; and, for the
Government to achieve its goals for the commercialization of the CSIR, it was agreed that the plan
would be modified to overcome the following constraints and inefficiencies identified during
appraisal:
(i) Lack of business and management skills
26.    Commercialization will require the CSIR's institutes to identify market needs and to sell work
and technology to potential clients profitably. Currently, they lack these vital business skills and, in
particular, do not know their costs while consistently pricing their services below market levels. In
addition, many have set up pilot plants for processes they have developed and are waiting hopefully
for an entrepreneur to make a business out of them. Yet, they appear not to have analyzed the
market before putting resources into this work, and they certainly lack the skills to sell a businessman
on using a pilot process and then to close a deal. Commercialization will also require the institutes
to execute work quickly and efficiently. Yet, the CSIR does not appear to have any organized system
of project review. Instead, research can continue as long as the staff member who initiated the work
is interested in it, an approach which is too unstructured for a commercialized institution.
27.    Therefore, as part of its reorganization of the CSIR, the Government, in the body of MEST,
will have to establish a marketing function in each commercialized institute whose role will be to
identify market needs and, working with the research staff and finance/accounting, to structure, price,
and sell services profitably. One person, possibly with some secretarial/clerical support, should be
able to carry this out at the institute level. In addition, the CSIR Secretariat will need a marketing
person to coordinate the activities at the institutes and to help sell work which involves more than one
of them. The marketing person's compensation should be a combination of a modest base salary plus
a significant commission which could be based on sales or profits and, perhaps, customer satisfaction.



- 11 -
Once the institute has an operating history and can forecast its revenues to some degree, the marketer
should have a sales quota to motivate him further and make expliJit how he will be expected to
perform. In addition, the Government. with expert support, will have to establish a structured project
management methodology in each institute to ensure proper tracking and timely completion of work.
(ii) Inadequate incentives
28.    CSIR staff members assert that their salaries do not provide a living wage and so, to survive,
they must take on outside duties which they perform during the workday, often at their institute and
using its resources. As a result, researchers have a strong incentive to sell work directly and keep
all the revenues rather than share profits with their institute according to the formula which MEST
has recently established which assigns 70 percent of the profits to whichever party -- the institute or
the researcher -- brought in the work -- and 30 percent to the other. This saps the strength of the
institution since it deprives it of both funds and the commitment of its people.
29.    Therefore, as part of its reorganization of the CSIR, MEST will have to ensure that the
marketing function is a strong one so that it can regularly bring work into the institute as a whole,
which will offer a researcher some ongoing incremental income and an incentive to carry the
assignment out even though it will not get 100 percent of the fee. Strengthening the marketing
function will also build in checks and balances by separating project sales from performance.
(iii) Misdirected incentives
30.    Although research staff at the CSIR can share in consulting fees their work generates, they
currently get promoted for publishing papers in refereed journals, not for helping industry, which
diminishes their incentive to serve the private sector.
31.    To motivate staff to work on problems of importance to the private sector, the CSIR will have
to revise its promotion criteria to include service to industry. One approach is to give people credit
for the hours they spend on projects for the private sector. To do this, the CSIR will have to
establish a time sheet system -- i.e. require that employees account for their time by indicating how
many hours they spent each week on each particular project. This will also improve the management
of the CSIR since it will give the Secretariat information on how staff time - its most important re-
source -- is being used.
(iv) Inefficient use of equipment and limited absorptive capacity
32.    Each of the CSIR's institutes claims that it needs new equipment and facilities. While this
is true to some extent, particularly for facilities, a significant portion of these needs can be met at
other institutes or related institutions such as the GSB which often have equipment another institute
wants and do not use it 100 percent of the time. In addition, in those cases where an institute does
need a major infusion of funds for new equipment, it could not make effective use of them if they
were all disbursed at one time. One reason is that the commercial activities for which this equipment
is intended are not yet in full operation. Another is that the staff will require extensive training in
using the equipment and in research methods before it can fully benefit from it. Finally, installations
of equipment have to be phased and planned, particularly given the problems Ghanaian institutions
have had in the past getting equipment to work, thus limiting the rate at which the CSIR can take in
new gear.



- 12 -
33.    Therefore, as part of its reorganization of the CSIR and before it receives any funds from
IDA for equipment, MIEST will have to develop a plan to rationalize equipment allocation and use
in the CSIR and the GSB. To encourage cooperation and the efficient allocation of resources, each
machine/equipment center should be made a profit center. For example, the FRI could make use of
the GSB's analytical services on a contract basis until demand for these services outstripped the
facilities. Similarly, the FRI and other institutes could contract out work to the SIC's engineer-
ing/machine shop. While the CSIR may need some new equipment to begin the commercialization
process, incremental disbursement of funds for equipment must be tied to the achievement of
milestones such as establishment of satisfactory commercially-based business plans or the achievement
of agreed upon revenue targets.
(v) OverstaMng
34.    The CSIR suffers from overstaffing of its administrative, accounting, and support functions
which diverts resources from its primary mission and makes the institution harder to manage. For
example, at the FRI, which had the best ratio, research grade staff still made up only 24 percent of
its total staff in 1993. At the CSIR as a whole, research grade staff made up only 9percent of total
staff in 1993.
35.    Therefore, the Government will have to carry out targeted reductions of administrative,
accounting, and support manpower. Selectively cutting, redeploying, or retraining staff will free up
resources for use in research and encourage their efficient use. The targeted reductions envisaged
for the four institutes are to achieve ratios of 1:4 research to administration staff by end 1995 and
to achieve a further reduction to 1:3 by January 1, 1998.
(vi) Legal limitations on its activities
36.    The Act under which CSIR currently operates significantly limits its ability to serve the
private sector inasmuch as it is still largely a Government run and directed organization with only
token private sector representation. MEST has drafted a new bill which restructures the CSIR - the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (Amendment) bill. The bill has many good features
and is a major improvement over the current one. Nevertheless, it does not go far enough to make
the CSIR a market-driven institution supporting industry.
37.    During negotiations MEST agreed that the following recommend changes to the draft bill
which are included in the Letter of Sector Policy will be included in the bill and the accompanying
memorandum to be submitted to Parliament:
(a) that by December 31, 1995, 40 percent of CSIR's governing council and 40 percent of
the management boards of the FRI, IRI, SIC and BRRI would come from the private
sector;
(b) that the Director-General of the CSIR be appointed in consultation with the Government
proposed by the governing Council of the CSIR;
(c) that contract research be carried out to meet the needs of industry;
(d) that not less than 70 percent of the contract income go to the institute that did the work;



- 13 -
(e) that the sectoral research committees explicitly represent industry interests and the
relevant CSIR institutes have a marketing function in place to serve the industries in their
respective sectors; and,
(f) that the Director of an institute has more freedom of action and responsibility.
38.    GSB. With the end of the era of import substitution and the emphasis on export promotion,
Ghana's manufacturers desperately need help to raise quality standards to a uniformly high level, one
that is acceptable to overseas customers. Although the GSB has already made efforts to promote
quality awareness, it will need to overcome constraints identified during appraisal, the most important
of which are:
(i) Poor image
39.    The GSB has a dual rule -- to set and enforce standards and to assist industry in improving
quality. On the whole, however, the private sector sees the GSB only as a tough regulator and is
reluctant to approach it for help. This hurts industry, since the GSB is the primary repository of
knowledge about quality control in Ghana, and prevents the country from deriving full benefit from
its investment in the GSB.
40.    Therefore, as part of its strengthening of the GSB, the Government, through MTI, will have
to create a strong public relations/marketing function there. Its purpose will be to generate awareness
among industry of the importance of quality and of the willingness and ability of the GSB to provide
assistance in that area. The MTI should also be prepared to make any other changes in the GSB's
structure and culture which are necessary to make the organization more "user friendly."
41.    "User friendliness" should not be limited to industry. The MTI must ensure that the GSB
shares its equipment with other research institutions to maximize use of the country's limited
resources. For example, the GSB has three ultraviolet spectrophotometers which, like much of its
equipment, are not used full-time. If the FRI could have access to one of them, it would not need
one of its own.  Making machine/equipment centers into profit centers, as in the CSIR, will
encourage sharing.
(ii) Inward focus
42.    The GSB creates its standards to protect domestic consumers. As a result, its certification
has little value in countries that adhere to international standards, hurting exporters.
43.    Therefore, the principal challenge to the GSB is to begin the process of getting Ghana onto
the ladder of accreditation towards the ultimate achievement of ISO 9000, which is critical to industry
as it enters the global marketplace. One important initial step the GSB can take towards this goal will
be to convene its standards committees to examine its existing standards and determine how to
upgrade them to international levels. Twinning and consultancy arrangements with other international
CSIR and standards establishments should help in this entire process. First contacts have been
established.
44.    Project Description. With the intention of developing a more competitive and demand-
driven industrial technology development culture in Ghana, the project will provide technical



- 14 -
stance for training and twinning arrangements to the CSIR with other international CSIR
rganizations to develop a commercialization strategy for the four institutes that are serving the needs
of the private sector. In addition, the GSB, an integral part of any capacity building in technology,
will receive support to strengthen its role in developing metrology and quality testing standards and
to disseminate its services throughout the country. For this project component, US$7.1 million
equivalent will be allocated to help upgrade the activities of the CSIR institutes and GSB through the
provision of:  (a) consultant services and training for management, accounting and institutional
upgrading and strengthening the commercial marketing and sales function (US$2 million equivalent);
and (b) equipment and support facilities (US$5. 1 million equivalent). The Implementation Manual,
Section 1, provides the terms of reference for the consultants who will assist in the commercialization
of the CSIR and GSB.
45.    Consulting services will be made available to the CSIR institutes and GSB to assist them in:
surveying industry needs, determining the customer base and defining the necessary equipment,
facilities, and training and skills required to effectively respond to these needs; assessing each
institute's strengths and weaknesses; reviewing business plans; developing and implementing revised
management structure and procedures; establishing a commercial marketing and sales function;
developing a methodology for forecasting external revenue; developing a rationalization plan for
equipment which enforces sharing and establishes usage targets; and setting up accounting and
budgeting procedures and information and data systems. In addition, for GSB, consultants will assist
in: identifying industry sectors which GSB will need to provide standards; setting targets for products
to be certified; reviewing current standards and developing a plan for converting them to ISO
standards; and defining the role and need for regional offices. Also, twinning arrangements, with
other worldwide institutes, exchanges of senior staff, assessment and counseling by technical
specialists, open informal communications between international counterparts, and participation in
seminars and other fora would be used as vehicles to transfer managerial skills and experience and
upgrade the capacity of these institutes and GSB to plan strategically, market and provide services
effectively, and develop international standards.
46.    To enable the CSTR institutes and GSB to strengthen their technical support and 'user-
friendly' services functions, assistance will be provided in the form of equipment over the five-year
project implementation period. Disbursement allocations for equipment will be based on annual
rationalization and acquisition plans which reflect shared and effective usage of equipment and
responsiveness to established commercial targets.
47.    Project Implementation. The Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology (MEST)
will be the principal implementing agency for this component to commercialize the four CSIR
institutes and strengthen the role of GSB in providing quality assurance services for the private sector.
48.    MEST has already embarked on the early stages of a commercialization effort, and the
discussions held with it and the CSIR have confirmed their commitment to continuing the process
with support under this project. To that end, they have, in principle, accepted the plan being
proposed. During negotiations, MEST provided a draft Letter of Sector Policy which, inter alia, will
incorporate an acceptance of the changes proposed to the draft amended CSIR bill. This was
finalized prior to Board presentation. The conditions for effectiveness include: (i) approval by the
Cabinet for submission to Parliament of a bill, satisfactory to the Association, enhancing the
commercial nature of CSIR's operations; (ii) submission of a model plan for each CSIR institute,
acceptable to IDA, detailing the staff reduction targets necessary to achieve the ratio of
support/administrative staff to research/technical staff of 4:1 by January 1, 1996 and to 3:1 by



- 15 -
January 1, 1998; Prior to being eligible to receive assistance for equipment, each CSIR institute will
be required to demonstrate progress made in the commercialization process and GSB will have to
exhibit headway in achieving ISO  9000 accreditation.  Conditions for disbursement against
expenditures for eguipment are: (i) Each of the four institutes will have developed a business plan
which inter alia will contain (a) a marketing plan, (b) a needs assessment schedule of training and (c)
written and monitorable project management procedures. The GSB will have developed a business
plan which will include (a) procedures and timetables for developing its levels of accreditation
towards the achievement of ISO 9000 standards and (b) industry targets and timetables for providing
service and information on metrology and standards. (ii) The CSIR Secretariat, the four institutes
and the GSB will have each appointed marketing managers. The marketing manager at the Secretariat
will have the responsibility of coordinating and monitoring the marketing functions of the institutes
and liaising with the GSB on equipment sharing issues. (iii) Each of the institutes will have adopted
plans, acceptable to IDA, detailing the reductions of administrative/support staff to research/technical
staff ratios commencing at 4:1 by January 1, 1996 and reducing to 3:1 by January 1, 1998. (iv) In
cooperation with the CSIR Secretariat, each institute and the GSB will have agreed upon a
rationalization plan for equipment based on the inter-institutional sharing of such equipment and on
agreed usage targets.
49.    Each of the four CSIR institutes and GSB will be required to submit semi-annual progress
reports to MEST and IDA. The CSIR progress repons will address achievements/shortcomings in
meeting its business objectives and will document the market studies conducted and actions taken to
respond to market demands; experience in meeting commercial revenue targets; progress on targeted
staff reductions in the administrative, accounting and support areas; and improvements in the
incentive system. GSB will also document its experience in meeting business goals and will include
in its semi-annual progress report actions to: strengthen its public relations and marketing function;
identify industry sectors to provide standards and progress made to convert to ISO standards; and
rationalize its regional offices. The CSIR institutes and GSB will also include their projected
equipment requirements supported by an equipment rationalization plan.
(ii) Technology and Enterprise Development Fund (US$2.5 million)
50.    Overview. While the Government is strongly committed to supporting a range of initiatives
that will increase and accelerate the future growth of the economy, the financial and private sectors
in Ghana remain very fragile because: (a) the continued overhang of a large public sector contributes
to sustaining an environment of limited growth in the private sector as a whole and in the private
export sector in particular; (b) the restructuring of the banks and a tighter supervisory climate have
still to create the necessary degree of self confidence within the financial establishment to respond
more forcefully and creatively to the needs of the private sector; and (c) companies are unable to plan
or communicate their needs to their banks who in turn are inflexible in dealing with the needs and
problems of such companies. Firm-level constraints that continue to impact the competitiveness of
companies in the local economy and in international markets are:
(a) Existing management and entrepreneurial skills are those that were developed to serve
an economy where quality control, financial management, pricing and marketing were
not major concerns. The needs, managements skills, marketing and information systems
required for the local and international markets are dramatically different;



- 16 -
(b) Operating capacities and productivity are low, a situation related to historically low labor
costs, work practices stemming from labor hoarding and the limited access to modern
technology;
(c) Technology used by most private sector enterprises is aging and outmoded;
(d) Established business practices and expectations are not compatible with the demands of
the international markets.
In this environment there is a need to create catalytic forces to spark the necessary initiatives needed
to develop an ongoing and sustainable capacity among financial institutions and their corporate clients
to respond to consumer demands.
51.    Objectives and Description. The objective of the Technology and Enterprise Development
Fund (TEDF) would be to: (i) assist the private sector to increase and deepen its contribution to the
growth of the country's economy by strengthening and broadening its overall technological and
productive capacity to enable it to competitively participate in the global economy; (ii) create a
number of new and/or higher level technical jobs; and, (iii) further develop the local consulting
industry. Specifically, on a pilot basis, US$3.3 million will be allocated to provide consulting
services on a competitive basis to: (i) assist enterprises in increasing their efficiency to develop value-
added products and provide reliable services; (ii) provide assistance in areas including, but not limited
to, project conception; preparation of feasibility studies; operational and financial management;
improving product quality, uniformity, reliability, design and delivery; marketing; technology
advisory services; enterprise restructuring; and personnel management, training and incentive
systems; and (iii) help enterprises in accessing funds from the financial sector.
52.   Implementation. The TEDF would be implemented under a TEDF Framework Agreement
between MTI and Empretec Ghana Foundation (EMPRETEC), a private, registered, non-profit
company. EMPRETEC was set up in 1990 and funded by the United Nations Development Program,
the UK Overseas Development Administration (ODA), Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd. and the National
Board for Small Scale Industries to support the development of private small and medium enterprises.
For the past three years EMPRETEC has been successfully implementing its programs which focus
on business development and include management training and business advisory services, promoting
international linkages, providing a loan monitoring service to increase the flow of bank financing to
SMEs, procurement service and volunteer (British Executive Service Overseas) technical short-term
consulting services. Since its inception total assistance to EMPRETEC for their programs from both
ODA and the European Union (EU) (for a Business Plan Development Fund) amounts to
approximately US$3 million. To qualify for continued support from ODA, EMPRETEC had to
establish itself as a limited liability company and attain independent status. EMPRETEC is working
toward these goals and on September 1, 1994 was incorporated as a foundation with its own board
of directors. EMPRETEC's Accra office and two regional offices (in Kumasi and Takoradi) are
supported by a total of eleven professionals and eight office support staff.
53.   Building on initiatives made by ODA, the EU, and the donor community for SMEs, funds
will be allocated under the project to augment EMPRETEC's limited resources to broaden and
strengthen their ability to provide business and technology advisory services.  The main
responsibilities of the staff would be to: assist beneficiaries in preparing clear and precise terms of
reference, find qualified consultants to provide the required services, determine deliverables that will



- 17 -
confirm services have been provided and serve to demonstrate the extent of the impact of the scheme;
prepare contracts with consultants and beneficiaries; monitor and evaluate consultant support; promote
the scheme by providing the media and other private sector organizations with general information
on the support provided by EMPRETEC's TEDF program; build a consultant register; establish links
with financial institutions, professional organizations, the Chamber of Commerce, trade associations,
and government authorities; assist in matching the beneficiaries with funding sources either through
bank loans, joint ventures, special account partnerships, or other financial relationships when financial
resources are required by the beneficiaries; evaluate the effectiveness of the scheme; and recommend
to its Board, MTI and IDA changes in policy or procedures to ensure the objectives of the scheme
are met. EMPRETEC staff will be guided by a Procedures Manual which will define the operating
policies and procedures for TEDF.  Modifications to the manual would be possible only after
obtaining approval from EMPRETEC's Board, MTI and IDA. The Implementation Manual, Section
II, provides a description of the Framework Agreement and the Procedures Manual.
54.   The fund is intended for beneficiaries who are:  privately-owned (at least 51 percent),
registered companies owned by Ghanaian nationals and, on an exceptional basis, firms having below
20 percent foreign participation; firms with asset size or projected annual sales not exceeding
US$400,000; engaged in the local productive and service sectors (primary agriculture, trading or real
estate are excluded); firms that do not belong to the Africa Project Development Facility's client
group, i.e. beneficiaries seeking assistance in obtaining financing up to US$250,000 in new, expanded
or restructured credit or for technical assistance support unrelated to direct credit needs; and,
financially capable of making their mandatory contribution to the financing of the consultancy
services. EMPRETEC will be required to seek IDA approval for the first 10 applications and all
other applications requiring consulting services costing US$20,000 and above before notifying
applicants of their decision to assist the enterprise.
55.    During the five year project implementation period, the provision of consultancy services will
be on a cost-sharing basis with 50 percent borne by the beneficiary and the remaining 50 percent as
grant support from TEDF. Experience with this type of technical assistance programs shows that
recipients are much more committed and interested in the successful outcome of the assistance if they
are required to participate in its cost. In addition, the beneficiaries will pay EMPRETEC a service
fee of 5 percent of the gross amount of each signed consulting agreement in the first year and
escalated thereafter by I percent per annum. The following Table provides projections on assistance
provided and cost recovery performance of EMPRETEC.



- 18 -
TABLE 2 4: TECHNOLOGY AND ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT FUND
PROJECTIONS ON ASSISTANCE PROVIDED, COST RECOVERY PERFORMANCE
AND SETUP AND OPERATING COSTS
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5         Total
Estimate number of projects              25         45          50         60          65          245
Avemge project stze (S)               9,000      9.000       9.000      9,000       9,000        9,000
IDA/Gov't contribution to TEDF (S)  225,000    405,000     450,000    540,000     585,000     2,205,000
Bencficiary's contribution (S)      112500     22.500    225,         270.000     292.500     1.102.500
Total contribution to TEDF (S)      337,500    607,500     675,000     810,000    877,500     3,307,500
Service fee cost recovery (% of gross)    5          6          7           8          9
Total service fee (S)                 16,875     36,450     47,250      64,800     78,975       244,350
Management Fee                       92,400      92,300     92,300     92,300      92,300      461,600
Office Equipment                      12.000     12,000     11,000                               35,000
Vehicies                             90,000                                                     90,000
Training                              15,000     15,000      15,000     15,000      15,000       75,000
Total                               209,400     119,300     118,300    107,300     107,300      661,600
56.    As indicated in the above table, $3.3 million will finance consulting services to beneficiary
enterprises, of which $1.9 million will be financed by IDA, $0.3 million by the Government and $1.1
million from beneficiary contributions. The service fee could be allocated to support operating costs and
an incentive compensation package approved by the Board and IDA. The management fee will include all
staff salaries, overnight travel allowances, vehicle running costs, outreach and advertising costs, and all
contributions to overheads and miscellaneous operating costs. The project will support the training needs
of both EMPRETEC staff and consultants in EMPRETEC's roster to deepen their professional skills in
providing business and technical advisory services.
57.    Beneficiaries would be required to take the initiative to procure the consultancy services, and with
the assistance of EMPRETEC, match their needs with appropriate expertise and select their own consultants
from a roster of qualified consultants. Repeated use of the scheme would be allowed provided cumulative
assistance from the fund does not exceed US$40,000 per beneficiary. No expenditures on equipment can
be supported by EMPRETEC even where equipment purchases are recommended by the consultant.
58.    A letter of understanding will bind the beneficiary to deposit his/her mandatory contribution of the
consulting and service fees with EMPRETEC. Also, grant recipients will be expected to define in this letter
of understanding at least one deliverable per contract which will allow EMPRETEC to verify that the
consulting activity had taken place.  A defined deliverable would depend on the circumstances of the
qualifying activity and could, for example, consist of a new and up-to-date accounting ledger, a new quality



- 19 -
manual, implementation of a new training program on operating new equipment, or a production prototype
of a new product line. EMPRETEC will assist its client firms in defining suitable deliverables ensuring that
such deliverables are indeed beneficial to the firm rather than produced merely for the benefit of the scheme.
Deliverables should be available to the company for viewing and need not be taken off a client's premises,
photographed or copied. All outputs from the consulting activities will remain the exclusive property of the
beneficiary with commercial confidentiality fully preserved by EMPRETEC.
59.    Consultants will be required to register with EMPRETEC to be eligible to provide services under
the scheme. Consultants and consulting firms will be required to provide information and demonstrate their
expertise in the field they are registered under. Consultants who fail to perform will be excluded from
EMPRETEC's roster and may be reinstated following EMPRETEC's review and only after a year. With
capacity building in the consulting services industry as another objective of the fund, preference will be
placed on hiring local consultants. In addition, resources will be allocated to provide EMPRETEC staff and
local consultants in EMPRETEC's roster with training to deepen their technical skills. The consultants will
be expected to pay at least 50 percent of their training costs.
60.    EMPRETEC will regularly promote the scheme using multi-media means.  To promote the
demonstration effects of the scheme, EMPRETEC staff will make available to the local media on at least a
quarterly basis, by form of press release the number and type of support, by product or service feature,
received from the scheme. This public information will be of a general nature to preserve the confidentiality
of individual clients.
61.    Regular monitoring and evaluation of EMPRETEC's operations will be required. Semi-annual
progress reports will be submitted to its Board, MTI and IDA.  Progress reports will document
implementation experience on each contract covering the deliverables by beneficiaries, consultant's statement
of services and its own on-site supervision. Before the end of each reporting period, EMPRETEC will file
an activities report with MTI for the period just ended using a standard summary format and providing
information on: the number and type of applications received, rejected and supported; breakdown of
approvals by manufacturing and service sectors, size of firm, feature of support received (e.g., quality,
productivity, management, etc.), size of the grant and beneficiary financing for consulting services; number
of site visits of each team member; disbursement performance; examination of operating costs versus budgets
by line item; marketing strategy; an assessment of the effectiveness and impact of the scheme; and project
implementation issues. A review of the management and financial performance of the fund will be
undertaken semi-annually during its first year of operations and annually thereafter. IDA will conduct at
least semi-annual supervision missions and a mid-term project review. Reports from these reviews will
provide a resource for evaluating the performance of the scheme and justifying its continued support under
the project following the mid-term review.
62.    Following the mid-term review, continued support for EMPRETEC's TEDF operations will be
dependent upon a satisfactory assessment by the Government and IDA of EMPRETEC's record on meeting
its obligations. By the mid-term review EMPRETEC would be required to have carried out with due
diligence and efficiency the following: (i) written at least 70 contracts for beneficiaries; and (ii) implemented
and/or completed at least 50 percent of these contracts. The assessment will also cover EMPRETEC's
compliance with the requirements as stipulated in the Procedures Manual.
63.    Prior to negotiations a letter mandating EMPRETEC to administer and manage the TEDF was sent
by MFEP to IDA and a letter from EMPRETEC confirming their acceptance was received. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) was put in place to provide for consulting services to prepare the Framework
Agreement and prepare the final draft of the Procedures Manual. Conditions for effectiveness include: (i)



- 20 -
signing of a framework agreement, between the Borrower and EMPRETEC; and (ii) adoption by
EMPRETEC of a procedures manual, both satisfactory to IDA.
(iii) Rehabilitation and Commercialization of the Ghana Trade Fair Authority (US$950,000)
64.    Overview.    Originally constructed in 1964 as a project financed by the Czechoslovakian
government, the Ghana Trade Fair Authority (GTFA) occupies some 50 hectares of land about 10 kilometers
from the center of Accra and within easy reach of the international airport and the port of Tema. The trade
fair center offers seven exhibition halls and a large, central air-conditioned 250-seat conference hall which
can be hired out for a variety of functions. The center is well provided for in terms of communications and
other facilities.
65.    While the GTFA hosted many international and local trade fairs in its early years, there has been
a distinct reduction in its role in the crucial task of promoting Ghana's image as an international trading
partner. The hosting of the Indutech Fair in 1993 was the first international fair in seventeen years.
66.    In 1991, the GTFA had published a three year plan which included the erection of perimeter walls,
the rehabilitation of the electrical system, the construction of a Financial Institutions Pavilion, improvement
of the internal roads and a general beautification program. However, while a Government task force
recommended a capital budget of Cedis 920 million to fulfill this program, only a third was allocated. The
net effect was that, due to these constraints, much of the 1991-93 plan could not be completed. It is thus
against this background that a new 1994-96 plan has been prepared to overcome the capital constraints and
provide for a strategy of sustainable growth for the foreseeable future.
67.    That plan has developed a mission statement that provides that the GTFA, in pursuit of the national
policy of boosting Ghana's internal and external trade, will marshall its resources to commercially engage
in effective trade promotion for Ghanaian entrepreneurs. In this process, the GTFA will complete the
development of the Center to an internationally competitive standard and effectively utilize all its facilities
for viable economic ventures.  To implement this mission the following corporate objectives were
established:
(a) support the national policy of private and export-led development;
(b) mobilize the resources necessary to meet the mission objectives;
(c) rehabilitate the Center to enable the GTFA to host local, sub-regional, regional and international
exhibitions;
(d) increase the volume of trade exhibitions;
(e) lease Center space for commercial activities; and
(e initiate new development projects.
Concerns were raised, however, that not only should the GTFA be placed on a sustainable commercial basis,
but that any costs towards its rehabilitation would have to be closely allied to the GTFA's ability to generate
sufficient revenues from a totally reorganized entity.



- 21 -
68.    Discussions were conducted between IDA staff and a number of Government agencies, private sector
organizations, and trade associations to determine their interest and support in strengthening GTFA's role
as a central, commercially-based trade promotion and exhibition facility. There was general agreement for
such a facility and that GTFA should fulfill the role. Also, there was consensus among those interviewed
that much work had to be done to enable GTFA to run, on a commercial basis, a first class, international
trade and business center including construction of new buildings or rehabilitation of the existing pavilions,
and adoption of new operational, financial and marketing management policies and procedures. It was
agreed during appraisal that detailed diagnostic studies would be conducted to determine the viability of such
a facility so as to ensure that costs towards the rehabilitation of GTFA are associated with expected revenues
from its activities.
69.    Objectives and Description. Under the project, funding amounting to approximately $950,000
would finance consultancy services for two studies and implementation of the recommendations under the
studies, satisfactory to IDA and the Government, including rehabilitation and construction work. The first
study should determine, among others: the market demand, domestically and internationally, for such a
facility; formulation of a promotional plan that will support both the national objective of a private-led export
development center as well as a sustainable commercially-based operations; propose a precise action plan
of reorganization leading to a privately managed commercially-based strategy for the center; the level of
support and the type of revenue generating activities (e.g., organizing pop concerts, accommodating
conferences, trade union meetings, sports events, etc.) to run the facility on a commercial basis; the changes
required in the operational, financial and marketing management strategy and structure to aggressively run
a market-oriented, international exhibition and business center; the receptivity of key agencies and business
support facilities such as the Ghana Export Promotion Center, Association of Ghanaian Industries, Federated
Association of Ghanaian Exporters, trade associations, banks, communications centers to set up their offices
on the premises on a rental basis to provide GTFA's patrons with a responsive business center; the
possibility of moving the Arts Center to the GTFA site; and options available to GTFA, including donations
from developed countries, to acquire exhibition furniture such as aluminum, knock down, shell scheme
systems.
70.    The second study, an engineering and architectural survey, will assess the rehabilitation and redesign
needs of the pavilions on the GTFA site to establish the investment parameters for this central trade
promotion and exhibition center. The Implementation Manual, Section 3, provides the terms of reference
for the two studies under this project component.
71.   The support for rehabilitation and construction work under the project is contingent upon (i) the
completion of the two studies described above establishing the commercial feasibility of the GTFA; and, (ii)
the adoption of a restructuring plan for the GTFA satisfactory to the Government and IDA.
72.    Project Implementation. The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) in conjunction with the GTFA
will be responsible for this project component. A condition for disbursement for civil works would be the
preparation of financing and action plans for GTFA's privately-managed commercial operations satisfactory
to IDA.
(iv) Industrial Design Center (US$750,000)
73.    Overview.  While it has been well established within the literature on the subject that the level of
technological capacity within a country is a key component in the process of economic development, it is
perhaps less established or discussed as to the extent that industrial design also plays a fundamental part.
Industrial design is that part of the technological process that more precisely defines the product's



- 22 -
acceptability into the market. A fine piece of technology or a well prepared traditional product without
market acceptance is unlikely to gain the acceptance that internationally recognizable brand names already
enjoy. At a much smaller and more modest level, local manufacturers, hoping to attract the attention of
international buyers, have to recognize that their products are being judged in relative terms to the
established brands and they have to address this problem through the adoption and exploitation of better
industrial design.
74.    Ghana today appears to be in this position. Its range of domestically produced products are in
serious need of upgrading. While there is a clear creative potential within the market, the products are
characterized by a number of fundamental flaws. These include such problems as non-colorfast fabrics, non-
kiln-dryed wood products, repetitive traditional designs, poor adaptation of traditional products to
international tastes, artisanal finishes to fabrics and wood products, including furniture, dated designs, limited
lines and poor, unimaginative packaging. In all cases, there is a strong case to be made for the introduction
to the market of improved and sophisticated industrial design innovation.
75.    Ghana's internationally traded goods are basically divided between its traditional products which are
cocoa, gold, electricity, diamonds and raw timber. There is also a significant export of non-precious hard
minerals. As basically industrial products, marketability is not a priority for these products. On the non-
traditional side, however, the picture is very different. The products range from African textiles and
traditional Ghanaian weaving such as the famous kente cloth, wood products and wooden furniture made
from African hardwoods, handicrafts such as wood carving, beads, small metal works and leather goods,
small scale manufacturing and rather large-scale production and export of premium, but highly perishable,
fruits and vegetables such as pineapples, mangoes and cassava. It is in this latter range of products that the
need to introduce the concept of industrial design concepts is overwhelmingly obvious.
76.    Objectives and Description. The project will fund consultancy services for a study to more fully
establish the need, scope and nature of a design center. The study will initially investigate the design
establishment that already exists within Ghana; document opinions from a sectoral cross section of the private
sector companies in the non-traditional areas detailed above and establish their need for such a facility and
their interest in supporting such an initiative with both direct financial investment and commercial contracts;
evaluate the present group of design graduates within the Ghanaian system and prepare a skills assessment
in the light of the information and needs expressed by the private sector interviews; investigate the optimum
structure and organization for a privately-managed, commercially-run center and identifying its sponsorship
and suggested location; develop detailed budget estimates for the center including equipment estimates,
recurrent expenditures, training, consulting support, twinning arrangements with foreign design centers,
information and library systems, and other support systems. The Implementation Manual, Section IV,
provides the terms of reference for this study.
77.    Implementation. The proposed study will be coordinated under the auspices of MEST. A condition
of disbursement for equipment for the design center would be the establishment, in a manner satisfactory
to IDA, of the commercial feasibility of the design center and the adoption of organizational, implementation
and staffing plans.
(v) Legal Assistance and Diagnostic Study (US$1.4 million)
78.    Background. Through the dialogue established with the Private Sector Roundtable, one of the key
issues that emerged as a constraint to commercial development was the unresponsiveness of the legal system
to the needs of industry and commerce in support of business transactions and the settlement of contract and
other civil disputes.



- 23 -
79.    An area of concern identified was the need of the legal system to upgrade its delivery of services
by improving its information and administrative systems. There is generally good agreement that Ghana has
developed a body of private sector legislation that is largely appropriate and relevant but there is little
agreement on its effectiveness.
80.    Objective and Description. The objective of this project component is to improve the operations
of the court system and improve legal information and research operations. The main activities to be funded
under this component include: (i) a study and support to meet identified immediate needs of the MOJ and
the Superior Courts in Accra for (a) stocking their libraries, (b) training, and (c) office equipment; and (ii)
a more extensive review of the legal sector including an examination of: (a) the operation of the judiciary,
including court management systems, physical infrastructure and in-service training; (b) the role and
organization of the MOJ, and other government legal offices; (c) the role of the various registries and
property transfer systems (e.g., land title, mortgages, copyright, companies, etc.); (d) dissemination of legal
information through the publication and distribution of legislation, regulations and law reports (including
activities of the Council for Law Reporting and Assembly Press); (e) the Law Reform Commission; (f) the
role and organization of law libraries at the university, in the judiciary and at the various government
agencies; (g) the development of a legal information system and data base; (h) the law school and faculties;
(i) the legal profession and the Ghana Bar Association; and (j) arbitration, alternative dispute settlement
mechanisms and administrative law procedures. It is anticipated that the longer term issues identified and
recommendations stemming from these studies will be addressed in a future project. The Implementation
Manual, Section V, provides the terms of reference for these studies.
81.    Implementation. The Attorney General's Department (AGD) will be the implementing agency for
this component. For purposes of guiding the development of medium- to long-term initiatives, the AGD
would oversee the establishment of a legal sector coordinating committee (LSCC) to manage the development
of a legal sector strategy to be presented to the Government and IDA. The LSCC would include
representation from (a) the AGD (which will chair the committee), (b) the Judiciary, (c) the MFEP, (d) the
Ghana Bar Association, (e) the Lands Commission and other entities responsible for the operation of the
various official registries and land transfer procedures, (f) the Ghana Law School and the law faculties, and
(g) private sector businessmen. The LSCC would coordinate and supervise the work of the various
consultants and experts who would be examining the different aspects of the legal sector. The use of local
consultants would be emphasized. It is expected that the work of the various consultants would be completed
within twelve months.
82.    The LSCC would organize and conduct a workshop with the various operators and users within the
public and private sectors to review the findings of the studies and develop a proposed strategy for the sector
for consideration by the Government. The LSCC would also assist to coordinate donor assistance for the
legal sector.
83.    The conditions for credit effectiveness under this component include (i) the establishment of the
LSCC with membership and under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) prepared terms of
reference and draft letters of invitation for the study on the library requirements of the MOJ and the
judiciary, operation of the judiciary, and the production and dissemination of legal information.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
84.    The proposed credit of US$13 million would be allocated for the project components as follows: (a)
commercialization of the CSIR and support for GSB (US$6.4 million); (b) Technology and Enterprise
Development Fund (US$2.5 million), structured on a cost-sharing basis from the beneficiaries; (c) Ghana



- 24 -
Trade Fair Authority studies (US$950,000); (d) a design center study and support to implement
recommendations (US$750,000) and; (e) legal sector diagnostic studies and assistance (US$1.4 million).
85.    Indicative total project costs, including duties and taxes, are estimated at US$15.5 million. The
Credit will finance 100 percent of foreign costs (USSI0.7 million equivalent) and 90 percent of local costs
(US$2.3 million equivalent).  Total counterpart funds are estimated at approximately US$2.5 million
equivalent, of which US$1.4 million equivalent to be provided directly by the Government and other
beneficiaries and US$1. I million equivalent anticipated under the TEDF from private sector companies. A
project account will be established with an initial deposit in cedis equivalent to US$60,000 as counterpart
funds. A PPF in the amount of US$400,000 was approved by IDA to support preparatory work under the
project.
Technical Assistance
86.    The project has important capacity building objectives and will finance about $4.3 million of
consulting services and about $2 million for studies. The following table provides indicative figures of short-
term consulting services, including local and foreign consulting requirements, envisaged under each project
component. The terms of reference for the consulting assignments and projected training requirements of
and by consultants to ensure the necessary skills transfer are provided in the Implementation Manual.
Following discussions with beneficiary agencies and given Ghana's skills level, it was assumed throughout
project preparation that there is adequate counterpart staff available to take over from foreign experts.
TABLE 2.5: CONSULTING SERVICES REQUIREMENTS
Project Component                                  Consulting Servkes
(person-months)
FIorcin                  Loal                    Total
CSIR                                34                       4                        38
GSB                                  8                       2                        10
TEDF                                50                      195                      245
GTFA                                10                       14                       24
Design center                        7                        3                       10
Legal services
Total                        129                     233                      362
Supervising Agency
87.    A Project Coordinating Team (PCT) in the MFEP will be the overall coordinating and implementing
agency for the Credit. The head of this team was nominated prior to negotiations and the PCT will be
established as a condition for project effectiveness. The PCT will ensure that all project related accounts
for all the implementing agencies are established and maintained in accordance with Intemational Accounting
Standards and that these project accounts, special account and statements of expenditure are audited at the
end of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The PCT will also coordinate the



- 25 -
submission to IDA of all implementation reports by all participating beneficiary agencies, who will be
responsible for ensuring such reports are provided to the PCT in a timely manner.
Procurement
88.    All procurement procedures under the project will be done under World Bank Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers.
89.   Procurement for equipment, which will principally include laboratory and scientific equipment,
would be grouped in packages of US$100,000 and above and would be procured by International
Competitive Bidding(CB). Domestic firms will be eligible for domestic preference per Bank guidelines.
Procurement under ICB will be based on Standard Bidding Documents. Procurement of civil works
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more will be procured by ICB.
90.   Contracts below the above threshold (because of lower values and specialized nature) would be
procured by (i) Limited International Bidding (LIB) for goods costing less than US$100,000 up to an
aggregate of US$400,000 (ii) international/local shopping procedures for goods costing less than US$50,000
up to an aggregate of US$500,000. As an alternative to shopping, wherever appropriate, IAPSO procedures
may be sought; (iii) direct contracting with IDA approval for proprietary equipment up to an aggregate of
US$200,000;(iv) because of their size and nature which would not be of interest to international bidders,
civil works contracts would be procured following LCB procedures up to an aggregate of US$300,000.
There will be no restriction placed on the participation of international bidders. Consulting contracts will
be provided for the CSIR and GSB in the fields of technological organization, planning and organizational
management, marketing and finance and for EMPRETEC, in the fields of technological services as well as
financial and management systems. With respect to the legal studies, consulting contracts will focus
principally on legal information and administrative systems. Training programs will be prepared on an
annual basis acceptable to IDA indicating persons, courses, places, period and estimated costs.
91.   Contracts for (i) goods and works over US$100,000; (ii) for individual consultant contracts over
US$25,000 and; (iii) contracts to consulting firms over US$50,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review.
Contracts below the above limits will be subject to IDA's post-review. Prior review will be required for
consulting contracts amounting to US$20,000 and above under the TEDF. Procurement progress will be
reported on a six monthly basis according to agreed formats.
Disbursement
92.   The CSIR Secretariat will be responsible for the procurement of equipment for the CSIR institutes
and ensuring that they are consistent with the approved (by IDA and MEST) rationalization plans.
93.   To facilitate disbursements from the Credit proceeds, a Special Account in US dollars will be
established and maintained in US dollars in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. The Special Account will have an authorized allocation of US$0.75 million representing four months'
average project expenditure. Upon effectiveness, an authorized allocation of US$500,000 will be deposited
into the special account. The remainder will be made available as needed. Replenishment applications
should be submitted monthly and will be fully documented except for contracts of less than US$50,000 which
may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All supporting documents will be
retained for review in regular supervision missions and the external auditors.



- 26 -
Account and Audit Arrangement
94.    MIFEP will ensure that all project related accounts are established and project accounts, the special
account, and statements of expenditure of the implementing agencies will be audited at the end of each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Copies of the audit reports will be forwarded to IDA within
six months after the end of each reporting period.
95.    EMPRETEC's accounts and the accounts for the TEDF unit shall be examined twice a year by
independent auditors. The TEDF unit shall also be subjected to a semi-annual management and technical
audit. Following principles similar to those used for the financial audit, the experts shall verify and certify
the proper application at all levels, in both spirit and letter, of the guidelines set forth in EMPRETEC's
Manual of Procedures as well as compliance with all of its contractual obligations. Special attention shall
be paid to verification of the quality of worksite monitoring and of the resulting information. The audit
periodicity will be examined during the mid-term review process.
Monitoring and Progress Reporting
96.    The implementing agencies will maintain adequate records and project information systems that
would provide data for semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to IDA by MFEP by March and
September of each year with the first report due in March 1995. Reports should cover progress on the
implementation of the credit components: the commercialization process of CSIR, operations of the TEDF,
progress on the studies on the design center, the GTFA and legal component, and other essential information
required by the Government and IDA in their guidance of program promotion and technical assistance
activities.
97.    Semi-annual project implementation reviews will be conducted by IDA together with each agency
participating in the project. Supervision reviews, including a joint IDA-Government mid-term review, will
monitor overall project execution, key project activities, project management and implementation
arrangement, and supervision plans, respectively, update the project timetable, identify implementation issues
and develop solutions to ensuing problems. All semi-annual progress reports will serve as input for IDA
supervision missions, the mid-term project review, and the project implementation completion report to be
prepared within six months of the closing of the project. The project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1999.



