Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT No 21547
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26650; PPFI-P8540)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9 MILLION (US$13 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 21, 2000
Private Sector Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Ghanaian Cedis
iGHC 5188 = US$ 1
US$ 0.192 = GHC 1000
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
B KR!                Buildings and Roads Research Institute
CSIR                 Council for Scientific and industrial Research
EOP                  End of Project
FRI                  Food Research Institute
GSB                  Ghana Standard Board
GTFA                 Ghana Trade Fair Authority
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IRI                  Industrial Research Institute
ISSER                The Institute of Statistical, Social & Economic Research
IQNET                International Quality Network
MFEP                 Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning
MEST                 Ministry of Environment, Science & Technology
MTI                  Ministry of Trade & Industry
MOJ                  Ministry of Justice
MOP                  Memorandum of the President
NGO                  Non-govermmental Organization
NPV                  Net Present Value
ODA                  Overseas Development Agency
PEPTA                Public Enterprise Privatization Technical Assistance
PSD                  Private Sector Development
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
SIC                  Scientific Instrumentation Center
SME                  Small & Medium-Term Enterprise
TEDF                 Technology and Enterprise Development Fund
TTL                  Task Team Leader
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
USAID                United States Agency for international Development
USD                  United States Dollar
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Kofi Boateng-Agyen/Michael Wong



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000960                                        Project Name: PRIV SECTOR DEV
Team Leader: Kofi-Boateng Agyen                            TL Unit: AFC1O
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PRIV SECTOR DEV                                 L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26650;
PPFI-P8540
Country/Department: GHANA                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DB - Business Environment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/27/93                                 Effective: 05/11/95           07/12/95
Appraisal:  01/28/94                                   MTR: 09/30/97              04/29/98
Approval:  12/06/94                                 Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF GHANA/TBD
Other Partners: Ministry of Justice/ Ministry of Trade and Industry/Ministry of Environment,
Science and Technology
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Jaycox Edward V.K.
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                           Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                   Mary Oakes Smith
Team Leader at ICR:   Kofi-Boateng Agyen                        Patrick Connolly
ICR Primary Author:   Michael Wong; Agata
Pawlowska
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to foster the development of a competitive private sector by (a)
assisting the Government in its efforts to restructure, reform and commercialize its technical
research and development institutions along competitive and demand-driven principles; (b)
providing a broad segment of the private sector with the necessary financial and technical
assistance to support the development of commercially-bankable projects by improving their
feasibility and quality; (c) supporting efforts by the export industry to improve their design and the
promotion of their products; and (d) assisting the Government in developing a program to
upgrade the delivery of legal services to the commercial and manufacturing sectors, thereby
accelerating response time for commercial transactions and commercial contracts disputes.
The project objective was in line with the Country Assistance Strategy of the Bank for Ghana
which called for increasing private sector-led growth. The project was not a stand-alone
operation, but one of the instruments in the Bank program in support of private sector
development. The project complemented other activities supported by the Bank and other donors.
USAID had put in place a Trade & Investment Project (TIP) for US$80 million to remove
constraints to the development of the private sector in Ghana. In addition, the Bank was
supporting the private sector with the Private Enterprise & Export Development Credit (PEED,
Cr. 2502 approved in 1993) which included a short-term credit line for exports, and the Small &
Medium Enterprise Development Credit (SME, Cr. 1996 approved in 1989), which included a
medium-term credit line. In addition to the credit lines, other projects supported the restructuring
of the banking sector which was expected to contribute to easing the credit constraint to private
sector activity. The project under review originally included a line of credit of about US$20
million, which was dropped during preparation since other institutions had indicated their
intention to provide this type of financing.
The project objective itself was general, as it was part of an overall Bank strategy for the support
of the private sector. At the time the project was prepared, it was believed that increasing the
efficiency of certain public institutions involved in research and development (R&D), trade
facilitation, industrial design, etc., would improve the competitiveness of the economy. This
translated into the five components of the PSD Project. Learning from the experience of the past
years and judging ex post, it is evident that, in fact, a key ingredient was missing; the demand for
good quality products and support services. In addition, the project attempted to replicate the
successful experience in other countries that supported their public institutions, which was
regarded as best practice at the time. This included the R&D institutions in South Africa (after
which this project was modeled), and the private-public partnership in Malaysia. The
implementation arrangements relied heavily on government agencies and did not incorporate
institutions which would benefit from the project during design or implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The revised overall strategy was to increase and deepen the private sector contribution to
economic growth in Ghana, and the objective of the project in particular was to improve private
sector competitiveness in global markets. These statements are the result of a revision of the
project that occurred at the mid-term review in April 1998. The reformulation was not reported
-2 -



or approved by the Board since the original objective was very broad, and a revision of the loan
agreement was not needed.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The project consisted of the following five components:
(a) Training and technical assistance to the Secretariat of Ghana's Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research (CSIR) and four institutions (the Food Research Institute, FRI; the Industrial
Research Institute, IRI; the Scientific Instrumentation Center, SIC; and the Buildings and Roads
Research Institute, BRRI) to develop a commercialization strategy to serve the needs of the
private sector, and capacity building to strengthen the role of the Ghana Standard Board (GSB) in
developing metrology and quality testing standards and to disseminate its services throughout the
country. The project envisaged changes in the legal framework and operating practices of these
institutions. The recommended changes were that 40 percent of CSIR's governing council and 40
percent of the management boards of the four institutions above would be from the private sector,
and that the director-general of CSIR be appointed by its governing council. It was also
recommended that contract research be carried out to meet the needs of industry, and that no less
than 70 percent of the income from such research go to the institute that carried out the research.
An additional change envisioned was that the director of an institute would have more
responsibility and freedom to take action than in the past.
(b) A technology and enterprise development fund (TEDF) to assist private small- and
medium-size enterprises to develop value-added products and provide reliable services, to
develop their technical and financial plans to a level of bankable quality and feasibility, and to
support their efforts to raise the necessary funds or investor support;
(c) for the Ghana Trade Fair Authority (GTFA), a study to determine the market demand, an
architectural survey to assess the rehabilitation and redesign needs of the pavilions and establish
the investment parameters to be met;
d) for the Industrial Design Center, a feasibility study to determine the scope, financial viability,
commercial demand and organizational structure of such a center; and
(e) in the legal sector, a study to design improvements in the delivery of legal services and
assistance to strengthen the capacity of government to support the delivery of services.
3.3.2 Assessment of components
In general, the components did not relate sufficiently to the project objective because they were
too public sector-focused, supply driven and did not fully address the constraints.
Public sector focus: The support institutions in R&D are owned and run by the Government and
directly dependent on the Government's budget. The amendments of the legal framework and
operating practices of CSIR envisaged at appraisal were insufficient, even if adopted, to effect the
desired turnaround of the research institutions, as they left control of these institutions in the
public sector.
-3-



Supply driven: Both intense competition and consumers themselves are the driving force of
innovation and productivity in the private sector. By funding suppliers instead of directly
funding/subsidizing research projects initiated by the private sector and implemented by a provider
selected through competitive bidding, there was a disconnect between market demand and supply.
Address the root causes for constraints: Consultations with the private sector identified upgrading
the industrial infrastructure and commercial judicial system, and overhauling R&D institutions and
manpower development as areas for action. The underlying message was for government to
assume the role of facilitator and allow private sector involvement in these sectors. This was not
sufficiently acknowledged by the R&D component.
The provision of financial and technical assistance to develop commercially-bankable projects by
improving their feasibility and quality (TEDF) addressed a private sector concem. Greater
consultation with the banking community would have ensured that the fund activities were indeed
addressing their requirements.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised, although in 1999, six months prior to the closing date
of the project, the Public Enterprise and Privatization Project (PEPTA, Cr. 2877 approved in
1996) was amended to include support for the GSB and legal components of the PSD project,
which were being implemented satisfactorily, but which would not be completed by the closing
date of the PSD project of June 30, 2000.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was never subjected to a Quality-at-entry review. As noted elsewhere in this report,
although extensive work was done at preparation to identify constraints, the project design did
not fully take into account the preconditions for successful reform of the institutions involved in
the project and had a complex implementation arrangement, described below, which did not fully
bring in the ultimate beneficiaries of the project-financed institutions.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The macroeconomic fundamentals of Ghana have been deteriorating since the credit was
approved, and it is likely that this has resulted in changed perceptions and priorities and affected
project outcome. The project helped create a greater consciousness of markets and commercial
practices among all participating institutions which is an important beginning in achieving the
project objective of restructuring, reforming and commercializing them. Also, while actual
progress in meeting project objectives was limited in some of the beneficiary institutions,
significant progress was made in improving the performance of the GSB and in the modernization
of the legal infrastructure, and Bank support for these activities will be continued under another
Bank project. The second key project component, the TEDF, had limited impact. Its outcome
was adversely affected not only because of its design, but also by the adverse investrnent climate
in the country. The project outcome is therefore rated unsatisfactory because of it had limited
achievements when measured against outcome indicators, as discussed in the section on
- 4 -



components below.
4.2 Outputs by components:
a) Commercialization of Research and Development
1.1 Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
The central objective of this component was to support the reorganization and reorientation of the
four industrial-oriented CSIR institutes along commercially-based lines so as to provide more
effectively the linkages between the delivery of skills and the development of information and
standards to industry. The institutions were expected to generate 30 percent of their revenue
from the private sector, and to service at least 300 SMEs. The component is rated unsatisfactory
mainly because it did not meet its objectives.
The Government did amend the CSIR charter in 1995, and but did not include provisions that
would have allowed the institutes to retain 70 percent of their revenues as agreed in the legal
documents with the Bank. The institutions have in fact not retained a significant portion of their
revenue and are not able to meet running costs. The amendments also imposed the requirement
that CSIR institutes generate 30 percent of their budget. Revenues still only account for under 10
percent of the institutes' costs. The institutes did reduce the staff and met the target of ratio of
research staff to support staff. In spite of the timid changes introduced in the legal and
organizational framework, the CSIR institutions have taken an increasingly commercial approach
with the establishment of marketing offices, and have started advertising their capabilities.
Therefore, there is some evidence that the project has left a lasting imprint.
1.2 Ghana Standards Board
In addition to the commercialization of the GSB, key services were to be upgraded to the
International Standards Organization (ISO) standards. The implementation of this component is
rated satisfactory because two important benchmarks were achieved: GSB obtained ISO 9000
certification in May 2000, and has put in place a twinning arrangement with an external partner.
The component is still being implemented under the PEPTA Project. Therefore, the targeted
revenue generation and companies to be certified may be achieved. At 10 percent, revenues are
far below the projected 30 percent, and the process of initiation of 20 companies in ISO 9000,
ISO 14,000 and ISO/IEC has not be completed.
b) Technology and Enterprise Development Fund (TEDF)
The objective of the TEDF was to encourage and facilitate the ability of the small- and
medium-size enterprises (annual sales US$400,000) to access financing and improve their
productive efficiency. The component is rated unsatisfactory mainly because project
implementation was slow and costly, the program was ineffectively managed and had a limited
impact.
Slow and costly implementation: Disbursements from the TEDF were slow in the first three
years, while project management fees were disbursed as projected. While only 8 percent of the
- 5 -



TEDF was disbursed in 1997, 100 percent of the management fees were spent. Disbursement of
the fund only improved after the mid-term review agreements that Empretec's management fees
be based on performance, and that the grant contribution of 50:50 be changed to 35:65, and other
donor programs implemented with Empretec were completed. At closure of the project, 66
percent of the TEDF and 91 percent of the management fee was disbursed.
Ineffective management: The fund managers decided to pay consultants up-front, instead of
reimbursing companies for consultant services which were carried out, as is the standard practice.
This resulted in a significant number of clients not paying for services, paying late or paying a
lower than required amount; in fact, there are still disputes outstanding as a result of this
management failure according to the draft audit report. The actual payments ratio to clients or to
consultants is difficult to assess from the information provided by Empretec.
Limited impact: A detailed survey was not completed. However, the clients interviewed as part of
this review confirmed that they did not receive credit from commercial banks on the basis of the
consultant services. In those cases where credits were made available, they were given on the
basis of a purchasing order or other form of collateral. However, this is not reflective only of the
fund, but of the problems with the banking sector which have not been resolved. The access of
credit to SMEs in general continues to be a problem. For those clients who were not focused on
access to finance, services provided did contribute to improvement in the performance of their
business. However, both firms and consultants believed that a payment arrangement where the
beneficiary enterprises paid half the costs of the consultant services (a ratio of 50:50) would not
work in Ghana, and were surprised to hear that the scheme is implemented successfully on a
50:50 basis in other African countries. The use of the word "fund" in the title of the matching
grant scheme could have also had a negative effect on users who generally associate funds with
grant funds.
c) Rehabilitation and Commercialization of the Ghana Trade Fair Authority
The objective of this component was to support a private sector-led development of a viable
GTFA. The project financed the studies for the GTFA as planned. However, none of the
rehabilitation or construction work envisaged at appraisal was financed under the project.
Experience with this component is rated unsatisfactory. After completing the study, the GTFA
was placed on the divestiture list, and the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) could not agree on the need for further investments. The privatization decision
was independent of project activities, and it is likely that by the time a decision is reached on
divestiture of the GTFA, the studies financed under the project will be outdated.
d) Industrial Design Center
The original objective of this component was to establish the need, scope and nature of a design
center. However, during the mid-term review, the objective was made more ambitious: to
establish a privately-operated and commercially-run Industrial Design Center. Experience with
the implementation was unsatisfactory as progress anticipated at appraisal and mid-term were not
achieved. A study, completed under this component, identified a number of potential suppliers of
-6 -



industrial design services in the private sector and existing public institutions. However, no
attempt was made to strengthen existing operators because most institutions in Ghana were
committed to the construction of a new facility, which the World Bank Group could not support.
After the study was completed, no further investments were made since the building of an
industrial design center was not feasible.
e) Legal assistance and Diagnostic Study
The objective of this component was to improve the operations of the court system and improve
legal information and research operations. Major activities such as the assessment of constraints
in the different legal institutions and providing necessary supplies such as books, computers and
training were implemented. In addition, a legal sector strategy and investment plan was
completed and presented to different donors who have expressed interest in supporting the legal
sector. The implementation of the component is rated satisfactory since key stakeholders have
been sensitized to existing constraints, other donors have expressed interest in supporting the
legal sector and major decisions by Ministry of Justice are being implemented to reduce
processing time and improve service delivery.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A NPV was not calculated for this project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As noted elsewhere in this report, despite progress in some institutions (GSB), the reorientation
of key institutions supported by the project was not achieved.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Several exogenous factors had some influence on the achievement of project objectives,
particularly in 1998 and 1999. In 1998, aggregate production and earnings in Ghana were
negatively influenced by: (a) the financial crisis in Asia; (b) the recession in the Japanese
economy; (c) the off-loading of gold onto the world market by Eastern Europe, Russia and parts
of Western Europe; and (d) the drought brought on by El Nino. In 1999, cocoa prices fell by 40
percent between January and December; gold prices reached a low of US$235 per ounce, and
crude oil prices increased. These factors influenced private sector operators, making them
risk-averse and less willing to invest in innovations and new markets.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The following two factors had a substantial impact on the effectiveness of the project: (a)
insufficient private sector involvement in the design and implementation of the project; and (b) the
use of inappropriate incentives for project management.
Private sector involvement: The objective of the major components of the project was to make
selected institutions more market-focused and improve their service delivery to the private sector.
However, neither the private sector nor their representative organizations were sufficiently
- 7 -



involved in monitoring overall progress or assessing outputs or impact. Feedback from
beneficiaries would only have been possible through surveys, which were not carried out.
Therefore, when project activities fell short of expectations, no appropriate measures were taken
to respond in a timely manner to the poor performance.
Project management: The project was initially managed by MOF and later by a consultant
contracted by MOF. Frequent changes in the Project Implementation Unit staff made capacity
building difficult and contributed to implementation difficulties. For most of the implementation
period, the TEDF component was managed through a non-performance-based contract with
Empretec, an NGO largely dependent on donor financing. The project management team in MOF
had its principal contacts with the various ministries and institutions involved in the project rather
than with the private enterprises which were the ultimate beneficiaries. The fact that none of the
project activities fell within the direct mandate of MOF made relations more complex and
weakened the project management unit. More ownership of the project or part-ownership of
institutions by the private sector would have strengthened project implementation. The
Government's evaluation report of the project notes that the lack of counterpart financing made
project implementation difficult. Lack of counterpart financing is a problem in many
Bank-financed projects in Ghana, and it is being addressed. However, the counterpart
requirements in this project were so small that the shortage could be reflective of changing
government priorities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation arrangements of the project, with MOF responsible for implementing
activities mostly under the mandate of other ministries, proved to be a difficult arrangement to
achieve successful project implementation. This problem could have been addressed by involving
the private sector in monitoring the project and by consulting the private sector on key issues.
The project unit played the role of liaison between the World Bank Group and the different
government agencies involved in the project, and was not proactive in addressing slow project
progress and limited project impact. Actions by the project unit were thus dependent on the
proposals from implementing institutions and responses from the World Bank Group.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$8.63 million or 56 percent of appraisal estimates. Of the
approximately US$8.63 million disbursed, US$7.19 million was provided from the IDA credit and
US$1.44 million was provided from Government counterpart funds.
The low disbursement rate for the credit as a whole was due largely to the scaling down of some
project components and the delays in others due to difficulties in selecting consultants.
Changes in project scope. Consultant reports, in particular on GTFA and the Industrial Design
Center, recommended that further investment in these institutions would only be feasible after
these were divested. In the case of CSIR, a sequencing of investments based on performance
indicators was judged to be the feasible way forward. Since preconditions were not met
satisfactorily, civil works and capital investments under these components were lower than
expected.
-8 -



Difficulty in selecting consultants: In two components, implefnenting institutions considered the
consultants' performance to be unsatisfactory. The need to select new consultants led to delays.
In the case of TEDF, the consultant contract was not performance-based which contributed to the
slow disbursement of the fund.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is unlikely to be sustainable because the institutional and regulatory environment has
not changed sufficiently. Prior to the implementation of the project, institutions selected were
found to have legal limitations, including inadequate incentives, which contributed to their lack of
focus on market demand. While changes were made, such as a 40 percent private sector inclusion
in governing council and management boards, these proved insufficient to create a market focus;
not more than 30 private sector operators could be listed as clients for the CSIR institutes. The
project did not contribute significantly to a reduced dependency on either public sector
management or budget provisions from the Government. This dependency has not led to effective
delivery of services in the past. For instance, one year prior to completion of the project, none of
the institutions were connected to the Internet under the project as they were unable to pay their
subscriptions.
For two components, the legal sector and TEDF, the comments above are not applicable. The
legal sector component is still ongoing, and activities are not yet complete. For the TEDF, a
company survey was not completed therefore the sustainability of the investments at firm level
cannot be determined in the absence of concrete data.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Two components of the project (the legal component and capacity building within GSB) have
been included in the PEPTA project which was amended for this purpose in 1999. The GTFA is
now a limited liability company, no longer part of a Government of Ghana subvention and is
eligible to be privatized. One of the CSIR institutes, IRI, has merged with SIC to form one
institute, and other institutional reforms are underway in the context of a public sector reform
program, but there is no Government directive yet about the future of these institutions.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was unsatisfactory. The project team
consulted with the private sector and other relevant donors such as USAID, DFID (then ODA)
and UNDP. As mentioned earlier, the project complemented other projects of the Bank and the
USAID. However, in hindsight, insufficient emphasis was placed on conditions necessary for
successful implementation of the components supporting public institutions, i.e., insufficient
amendment to the CSIR act and divestiture of GTFA. Lastly, the implementation arrangements
were complex and the TEDF arrangements gave no incentive to the NGO in charge to effectively
and efficiently implement the component.
7.2 Supervision:
Although the project had a complex design and implementation structure and task managers
-9-



changed frequently (at least three times during the project period), supervision is rated
satisfactory. This rating is based on adequate reporting, early identification of difficulties, and
advising the Government and project implementing agency adequately. Due to active supervision,
resources were used efficiently: components that were not performing well were stopped, and the
two performing project components, the legal sector and the GSB, were incorporated into a
related Bank project (PEPTA). The Government's evaluation report indicates that the Bank
frequently changed disbursement conditions. In fact, disbursement conditions were not changed.
At mid-term review it was agreed that given the slow pace of implementation of some
components, it would be more appropriate to link certain expenditures to outputs to ensure that
the expenditures actually met needs.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory on the basis of the project design,
implementation structure and the lack of private sector involvement.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government consulted extensively with the private sector during project identification.
However, during preparation and appraisal, the private sector was not adequately consulted. In
fact, the project design appears to have been driven in part by the public sector institutions which
were being reformed. This contributed to a public sector-managed and supply-driven project. The
borrower's performance during preparation and appraisal are therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Key changes in the legal framework for some institutions, notably the CSIR institutes, which were
conditions of the credit and critical to project success, were not implemented. Furthermore, the
Government did not sufficiently consult with the private sector during implementation. As a
result, the Borrower's performance during implementation is rated unsatisfactory.
Amendment of the CSIR Act. Following the sector policy letter issued by the Ministry of
Environment, Science and Technology, the amendment of the CSIR Act would allow independent
institutions to retain at least 70 percent of their earnings and in so doing, change the incentive
structure and create the basis for the commercialization of the four institutions. This modification
was not included in the amendment of the Act, which left the incentive structure unchanged. This
did not encourage management of the institutions to take a more commercially-oriented attitude.
Private sector involvement. The board and management of CSIR were still largely dominated by
the public sector. Even if the 40 percent private sector participation had been appointed and was
active, it was too small to influence the institutions to be more market-focused. In some areas of
direct interest to the private sector, such as the divestiture of GTFA, the lack of consultation was
compounded by the slow decision-making process of government on fundamental matters such as
divestiture.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Given a general lack of commitment and inadequate legal environment, implementation was
marginally satisfactory. Management was fairly efficient and progress reports, procurement and
audit reports delivered on time within the responsibility of the implementing agency.
-10-



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory due to the apparent lack of commitment
by the government and the limited involvement of ultimate beneficiaries.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be of relevance for similar projects in the sector or in the country:
(a) Importance of private sector involvement in project design and implementation
Beneficiaries and their representative organizations were insufficiently involved in project design,
identification of priorities, activities and implementation structure. Project approaches or methods
proposed should be more widely discussed with various groups in the private sector before
implementation; for example, if the 50 percent matching grant concept, which is widely accepted
throughout Africa, had been discussed before its introduction, several problems could have been
avoided. In addition, the private sector was not consistently briefed on the status of the project,
and project implementation was carried out without their involvement.
(b) Importance of defining appropriate roles for government and private sector
Partly as a result of the above, the private sector did not assume any real ownership of the project.
In reality, all key decisions were taken by Government, which retained control of the project.
This contributed to the development of a project which was supply-driven and failed to meet the
needs of the private sector in terms of the type, quality and timeliness of delivery of services. This
impacted negatively on the sustainability of the project. While private sector involvement is
important, the balance between the role of Government and that of the private sector is critical for
achieving positive results. The Government should be in close collaboration with the private
sector to establish an appropriate facilitative environment for private sector development.
(c) Importance of clarity of objectives
The project framework would have benefited from greater clarity in the link between the activities
supported by the project and a more competitive private sector. The components under the
project (technological assistance, market research and financial assistance) are commonly found
among competitive and successful exporting industries, and in fact, the project aimed to replicate
experience (e.g., South Africa) with the type of institutions supported under the project and with
public-private partnerships (e.g., Malaysia). However, the process for selecting the partner
institutions does not appear to have been guided by clear criteria linked to the overall purpose of
the project. The activities under the project, including government support, usually take place in
the context of existing domestic industries that are already functioning and often there is
considerable local market demand for the product and services. Examples include the leather
shoe industry in Italy or the hi-tech industry in the Silicon Valley. Because of the limited link with
the local market and existing industries, there is no assurance that the activities supported by the
project would lead to tangible and observable results.
- 1 1 -



(d) Importance of a comprehensive public sector reform:
In retrospect, it is clear that is difficult, if not impossible, to change the incentive structure of
selected public institutions without an overall government commitment to public sector
institutional reform. Experience has now shown that a comprehensive public sector reform, like
the one that is being implemented in Ghana now, is the most effective way to bring about needed
changes. Such an approach was not present in Ghana at the time this project was prepared.
(e) Importance of commitment to the project by all players
The project was hampered by the Government's failure to implement certain commitments such as
those indicated in the letter of sector policy; this is representative of a certain lack of commitment
to private sector-led development which inevitably will handicap any private sector development
project, particularly one in which the Government has such a significant role.
At the same time, the private sector must be willing to show commitment by contributing its
share. For example, it should be willing to pay for 50 percent of consultant services, as is done in
other African countries, instead of being over-reliant on Government.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower           :     Republic of Ghana
Amount                   SDR 9 million (US$ 13 million equivalent)
Terms              .     Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Beneficiaries            Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
Ghana Standards Board
Ministry of Trade and Industry
Empretec Ghana Foundation (SMEs)
Ghana Trade Fair Authority
Ministry of Justice and Judicial Service
Private Sector Institution (PEF, ATAG, AGI etc.)
1.0 INTRODUCTION
The Private Sector Development Project (PSD), a US$13 million IDA facility became
- 12 -



effective in 1995. The Project is a culmination of the renewed commitment of the Government to
accelerate the pace of development of Ghana's private sector. The Project is also a direct result
of the Business Community's own assessment of lingering issues which impede growth of the
private sector. These issues were confirmed and consolidated during a series of roundtable
meetings between the Private Sector and key members of Government and the Donor Community
in 1994.
The Project compliments and enhances the effectiveness of other private sector
development initiatives, which were being promoted by the Government. The ongoing USAID
funded Trade and Investment Project is one notable project, which was developed simultaneously
with the PSDP and is providing export support services to the private sector. Other World Bank
Projects have already been implemented to improve private sector growth and delivery( eg.
PEEP)
The Government also recognizes that one key stumbling block is that Ghana's industry on
the whole lacks technological capabilities, which it needs to develop. Technical, managerial, and
institutional information and skills would allow productive enterprises to use equipment and
technology more efficiently.
The Private Sector Development Programme (PSDP) was therefore initiated by the
Government of Ghana and the International Development Association (IDA) to overcome the
manufacturing and technological constraints facing the private sector and create a more dynamic
non-traditional sector alternative, to address the lack of connection, and bridge the gap, between
the state sponsored research and development institutes and a technologically deficient private
sector in an environment in which the necessary supports for such elements as trade development
and competitive product designs are also lacking.
1.2 PROJECT MISSION
The mission of the PSD Project is to deepen and broaden the overall technological,
productive and export capacity of the private sector within the general framework of other
private-sector projects geared towards achieving private sector-led economy for the country by
the year 2010.
1.3   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project aimed at fostering the development of a competitive private sector by doing
the following:
a.    Assist the Government to build on its investment liberalization by restructuring, reforning
and commercializing its technical research and development establishment along competitive and
demand driven principles. From this selective institutional strengthening, Ghana's private sector
will be enabled to evaluate and develop appropriate technology, improve its knowledge of quality
and standards, deepen its technical capacity and improve upon its management information
systems;
- 13 -



b.    Provide to a broad segment of the private sector the necessary financial and technical
assistance to support the development of commercially bankable projects by improving their
feasibility and quality;
c.    Support efforts by the export industry to improve their design and the promotion of their
products; and
d.    Assist the Government in developing a program to upgrade the delivery of legal services
to the commercial and manufacturing sectors, thereby accelerating response time for commercial
transactions and commercial contract disputes.
1.4 EXPECTED OUTPUTS
At the end of the Project in June 2000, it was expected that Ghana would have:
* achieved revamped research institutions operating on more efficient commercial lines;
* brought much awareness to private sector enterprises to source more research services to
improve upon their technological and entrepreneurial (management ) efficiency to operate
more profitably;
* assisted private sector enterprises to achieve better industrial design and aesthetic quality of
non-traditional products that are competitive in the international market;
* achieved efficient and modernized commercial juridical system capable of speedily delivering
legal services for the commercial and manufacturing sectors for their healthy operations; and
* Achieved market-driven demand for private sector goods and services both domestically and
internationally from a central commercially based trade promotion facility with private sector
involvement.
1.5   THE INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
Three primary areas of institutional and policy framework were considered under the
project, namely, Commercialization, Capacity Building and Legal Process:
(a)   Commercialization
The premise under the provision of technical assistance in the project is the adoption by
Government of the imperatives of commercialization in the reorganization and operation
of the Council for Industrial Scientific Research (CSIR), the Ghana Standards Board
(GSB) the Technology and Enterprise Development Fund (TEDF) along demand driven
principles, the restructuring of the Ghana Trade Fair Authority (GTFA) and a study for the
establishment of an Industrial Design Center.
(a)   Capacity Building
The design and operation of the TEDF had as its primary focus:
(i)   the improvement of the capacity of private enterprises to meet the technical and financial
-14 -



requirements of their business; and
(ii)   the development of either indigenous Ghanaian consulting capacity or the active
recruitment of non-resident Ghanaian technical capacity, if possible, in pursuit of its objectives
(b)   Legal Process
The inefficiency in the delivery of legal and judicial services has constrained the
establishment of a viable commercial climate especially with regard to the conclusion of
business transactions and the enforcement of contracts. The PSDP has therefore been
designed to strengthen the information and management systems to improve the
organization and institutional delivery of legal services and strengthen the Government's
capacity to support its broader private sector development initiatives.
1.6 PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
The IDA Credit of US$ 13 million was allocated as follows:
(IJS$MILLION)
COMPONENT           Projected in     ACTUAL/LATEST                  TOTAL
SARIPAD            EST]    E
IDA       BENEFI  IDA        BENEFI  PROJECTED    ACTUAL
CIARY              CIARY    SARIPAD          ESTIMATE
CSIR             4.18      0.45      2.00      0.23      4.63            2.23
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... . . .    . ._. ... . .    .
G.S.B.           2.18      0.25       0.98     0.19      2.38            1.17
EMPRETEC         2.50       1.47      1.78     0.74      3.97            2.52
Desip n Center   0.75      0208       0.11     0.01      0.83            0.12
Ghana Trade Fair  0.95     0.10       0.39     0.00      1.05            0.39
Compay                               _______
Legal Services   1.38      0.14       1.26     0.04      1.52            1.30
MFEP             0.01      0.00                          0.01
MEST             0.01      0.00       0.73     0.23      0.01            0.65
MTI              0.01      0.00                0.00      0.01
Unallocated      1.03       0.09      0.00     0.00     I1.12            0.00
Total            12.95     2.58       10.63    4.95      15.53           8.69
Indicative total project costs, including duties and taxes, was estimated at US$15.53
million. The Credit financed 100 percent of foreign costs (US$10.7 million equivalent) and 90
percent of local costs (US$2.3 million equivalent). Total matching funds were estimated at
approximately US$2.5 million equivalent, of which US$1.4 million equivalent was to be provided
for directly by the Government and other beneficiaries, and a contribution of US$1.1 million
equivalent was anticipated under the TEDF from private sector companies.
-15-



The IDA supported preparatory work under the project with a PPF in the amount of
US$0.4 million
2.0    Assessment of Development Objective and Design
2.1 Development objective
The Development Objective of the PSDP is to foster the development of a competitive
private sector by (a) supporting Government to restructure, reform and commercialize its
technical research and development establishment along competitive and demand driven prnciples
(b) providing the private sector with the necessary financial and technical assistance to support the
development of commercially viable bankable projects (c) supporting export industry to improve
their design and the promotion of their products; and (d) assisting to upgrade the delivery of legal
services to commercial and manufacturing sectors, thereby accelerating response time for
commercial transactions and commercial contracts disputes
2. 1.1 Original Objectives and Design of the Project
The project's original objectives are desirable (and rated highly satisfactory). The
development objectives set for the project (i.e. commercialization, capacity building and
improvement in the legal processes) were very pertinent. The attainment of these objectives will
provide necessary support for private sector development and promote competitiveness of
Ghanaian goods and services.
We observed a total disconnection between the development objectives of the project and the
activities leading to the achievement of the stated objectives. Thus, the implementation
activities of the various components of the project were successful. However, due to some
unforeseen difficulties, we could not achieve the development of the project
2.1.2       The design of the project failed however to address some major constraints of the
private sector:
a)    The design of the Legal Diagnostics studies was limited in scope. Certain vital areas such
as access and title to land were not considered in the design of Project. As a result
institutions such as the Land Commission and the Land Title Registry were left out of the
legal sector component.
(b)   The need to re-furbish the Laboratories of the Ghana Standard Board (GSB),
(c)   The provision of vehicular support for GSB, which is necessary for the expansion of
services to Regional Centers as well as extension, services to Industry.
(d)   The Cost- Ratio sharing of 50:50 and a five percent service charge in the initial design of
the TEDF proved problematic. The inability of the project design to properly determine the ability
of the target group to raise the client contribution was a fundamental flaw in design. The financial
strength of the target group also meant that the average project size of US$ 9,000 was beyond
their means.
-16 -



2.1.3 In the design of the project, time frames for the execution of some components were
underestimated. The complexity of the project required a minimum of two years of studies and
discussions (i.e. Consultations with the Private Sector Stakeholders) before commencement of
implementation programs, which were estimated to require another three (3) to five (5) years.
2.1.4 Furthermore, we believe that better results would have been obtained if as part of the
Project Preparatory activities, some training were provided to the group of 'Project
Coordinators' from each of the beneficiary agencies. Such training would have provided a clearer
understanding of the objectives and associated conditionalities and a unified focus for the entire
project.
3.0. Assessment of Project Outcome and degree of success relative to objective
A.   The Ghana Standards Board (G SB)
*  The Consultancy Studies (Client Survey Report) confirmed the need to create a strong public
relation/marketing function. The Consultants therefore recommended that the Ghana
Standards Board should create a "Corporate Business Division" to handle issues relating to
Public Relations and Marketing. The GSB has implemented this recommendation.
* The Ghana Standards Board drew plans for the Certification of each of its six divisions to the
relevant ISO 9000 standard. As at May, 2000, only one division has been able to achieve this
objective i.e. Certification of its Physical Laboratories to ISO 9002 by Lloyds of UK. There
are plans to certify five other divisions by the year 2001.
* The GSB is currently in the process of establishing an ISO 9000 Certification Body to
undertake System Certification of organizations in Ghana. Quality Assessors have been
trained and necessary documentation and procedures for the program are currently under
discussion.
* Industry Sector Committees have been created to address the specific standards needs of
particular Industry Sectors. Strategies were also reconmmended for this program. The GSB is
currently implementing these recommendations through:
a)    Formation of the new Industry Sector Committee (ISC)
b)    Reconstitution of Technical Committee (TCs) and
c)    Adoption of new Rules and Procedures for Operation of ISCs and TCs.
Approximately 65 - 70% of expected work has been done.
* The Consultancy Studies provided a "Strategic Business Plan" for the GSB. The strategic
business plan was divided into three (3) phases:
Short-term i.e. tasks to accomplish within 1 - 2 years (1999 being the base year).
Medium-Term: i.e. tasks to accomplish within 2 - 3 years
long-term: i.e. tasks to accomplish within 5 - 8 years
- 17 -



Though not all the activities recommended for the plan period were undertaken, a number
of short-term activities have been commenced (about 70 - 80%). A fair amount of work on the
Medium Term activities has also started. Generally, due to the late take off of implementation and
related problems, it was not possible to achieve all the stated objectives.
Discussions are far advance to establish a twinning relationship with the Standards
Institution of Israel. Draft agreements have been exchanged and these are being studied. Other
Standards Organizations with which discussions have been initiated are:
a.    National Institute of Standards and Technology of the United States of America;
b.    Standards and Productivity Institute of Singapore.
c.    South African Bureau of Standards
B. THE  TECHNOLOGY  AND  ENTERPRISE  DEVELOPMENT  FUND
The project document required that 245 assignments be awarded to consultants by the end
of the project life. It also required that half of the number of contracts assigned each year should
be completed by the end of the year. In addition to the numbers to be achieved, it also made
projections with regard to the amount of money that had to be disbursed from the Fund each year.
This was arrived at on the basis of the estimated average cost of project of US$9,000.
Following the mid-term review of the Fund, in which the cost-sharing ratio was changed
from 50: 50 to 70:30 plus a five (5% percent service fee, Empretec was required to achieve 150
assignments with 75 completed by the end of the project in June 2000. Results show that
Empretec managed to sign 496 contracts and 300 of these assignments have been completed to
date. The full impact of the fund on the private sector will be assessed latter.
C.   LEGAL SECTOR
*  Short-term library, training and office equipment needs were identified for the legal sector.
Basic office equipment was supplied to the Judicial Service and government legal Institutions
like the A-G's Dept., the Registrar-General's Dept., Legal Aid Board, and The Ghana School
of Law.
*  In order to improve both the operations of the court systems and inject efficiency into legal
and judicial service delivery, the Government conducted six diagnostic studies. The studies
were structured to unravel the major issues militating against speedier delivery of legal
services as well as those that affect transparent administration of justice. The major issue
confirmed by the studies is the lack of capacity of the sector to deliver efficient and effective
legal services to civil society in general and the private sector in particular. There are also
problems associated with poor docket and record management, ineffectual organizational
structures and general lack of office infrastructure.
*  The Findings of the Studies and their accompanying recommendations, which were discussed
at Stakeholders' Workshop, held at Elmina in October, 1999 revolved around the capacity of
the sector to provide legal services that will be responsive to the needs of the private sector
and support the development process currently underway. At the institutional level, the
- 18 -



reforms sought to enhance the skills of all categories of staff; reduce the massive backlog of
cases in the courts; improve access to legal information; provide alternatives to litigation and
improve the internal management of the judiciary among others.
* The recommendations also aimed at eliminating the duplication in the processes leading to
land acquisition and transfers.
* The studies recommended a program to be implemented carried out over five years, divided
into three distinct but related components as follow:
a.   institutional strengthening and support of the Judiciary, MOJ and other Government Legal
Offices;
b.    human resource development and technical assistance; and
c.   legal service delivery and application of technology.
*  Three strategic areas namely capacity building, legal service delivery and technology form the
building blocks of the strategic plan of the reform program. The Strategic Plan has been
developed with programs for the short-term and strategic options for the long term.
* Following from the studies, a draft bill on Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) was
discussed and accepted by a cross-section of Stakeholders.
D.  GHANA TRADE FAIR COMPANY
* The objectives of the Commercialization and Reorganization studies undertaken by Sorca
Management Consultants were achieved. The study underscored the commercial viability and
the need for the establishment of a regional trade promotion facility in Ghana. However, as a
result of budgetary constraints, the international market demand, which formed a critical
portion of the study, was not undertaken. This placed a serious limitation on the overall
conclusion reached by the Sorca Consultants regarding the commercial sustainability and the
international demand for the Trade Fair Center.
* The study recommended that the Ghana Trade Fair Center should be transformed into a
Regional Trade Fair Facility. Government of Ghana has accepted the recommendation and has
provided funds for the rehabilitation of some structures recommended by the consultants.
* The Ghana Trade Fair Company has adopted the report and has rehabilitated substantial
portions of the facility. This include the ultra-modern conference center and collapsible
pavilions
E. COUNCIL FOR SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH
* Two domes at Building and Roads Research Institute were converted into laboratories and offices.
This has to a great extent solved the problem of inadequate office space for scientific research.
* Various scientific books and journals were procured for the three Institutes namely Institute of
Industrial Research (IIR), Food Research Institute (FRI), Building Road Research Institute
(BRRI) and the Secretariat. This has improved the libraries of the Institutes and the
Secretariat.
* Some equipment was procured for the three of CSIR Institutes. These include various
laboratory equipment, Total Workstation modern computerized survey equipment) and a
Percussive Drilling Rig. The Total Workstation and the Drilling Rig are very important
equipment and will greatly assist Building and Roads Research Institute in its
comnmercialization drive.
* Staff training under the project was organized in the form of local training, external training
- 19 -



and study tours for individuals as well as groups of staff. Short training courses in marketing,
change management, costing and study tours were organized for staff and management.
*  Seminars, Workshops and other forms of interactions organized by the project consultants
gingered the CSIR into action to begin developing its new management structures and
procedures. A document on the restructuring of the CSIR Secretariat has been prepared
indicating the main Centers, Sectors, Divisions, Sections and Units in the Secretariat as well as
the current and projected staffing situation and job descriptions. Council has approved this
document.
*  Consultancy reports with implementable recommendations are available at the CSIR as very
important reference documents. Very significant among these are the consultancy reports on
i.    Marketing Plans and Strategies
ii.    Costing and Budgeting
iii. Forecasting External Revenues
iv.   Management Information Systems
v.    Staff Rationalization (indicating skill mix required at the Secretariat for successful
commercialization)
vi.   Schedule of Training (indicating recommended Management training, Training schedules
for commercialization and Management Career Development Training Plan).
vii.   Commercialization Planning Guide and Project Management Manual.
*  The consultants also provided the CSIR with an Implementation Plan (indicating time frame
and responsibilities) and a list of equipment for the actualization of recommendations for the
successful take- off of the commercialization process.
*  CSIR Secretariat and the three Institutes received six (6) Internet ready computers. In
addition, the CSIR received thirteen (13) vehicles, which were distributed among the
Secretariat and the three Institutes. The vehicles have greatly facilitated movements of staff.
i  Finally, it should be stated that the CSIR Secretariat and participating Institutes all achieved
the following project goals to varying degrees;
Greater awareness for commercialization.
Restructuring of institutes with accompanying staff rationalization plan.
Increased interaction with private sector agencies
Increased revenue generation.
A common CSIR Vision and Mission statements were formulated.
A new CSIR logo for adoption by all Institutes was developed to give the CSIR a new
Corporate look.
The project required that CSIR should generate 30 per cent of its total budgetary
requirement by the end of the project. It has not been possible for CSIR to achieve the indicated
target because of the late conduct of the commercialization studies. However, the necessary
structures have been put in place to enable CSIR achieve the indicated level of revenue generation
in the near future. Critically, CSIR would require the full compliment of equipment recommended
by the consultant to achieve the agreed target of 30%.
F.    INDUSTRIAL DESIGN CENTER (IDC)
-20-



*  The Consultants submitted a final Report on the establishment of an Industrial Design Center
on 30th September 1999. Government and the IDA have accepted the report for
implementation.
*  The Consultants indicated that there is an urgent need to establish an Industrial Design Center
(IDC) in Ghana and that the IDC is commercially viable.
*  The consultant's strongest recommendation for the name of the center is the National Design
Center, Ghana. The name will communicate the national commitment to industrial design that
Ghana has embraced. It is believed that reaching the international community by
communicating the national aspiration for industrial advancement is essential to the
establishment of Ghana's position on the international playing field.
The Consultants however, indicated that the commercial viability of the Center would
depend on several factors.
*  The viability of the Center would depend on the provision of equipment, facilities and services
to the tune of One million US Dollars. This would raise the rate of utilization of the Center to
about 50% within three years.
*  The availability of trained and skilled Industrial Designers. Professional Industrial Designers
normally take five years to complete their courses.
*  With regards to funding, the Report explained that while there is sufficient justification for
both public and private sector funding for the proposed project Center, the capacity of the
private sector to contribute substantially to the project initially could not be guaranteed.
There is therefore the need for long-term government commitment in the provision of funds
and in seeking donor support. The private sector is not in the position now to support a
facility of this financial magnitude. The Report therefore recommended that Government
should lead the way and promote the services of the Center to the private sector.
*  Finally the report concluded that Governments all over the world, as an industrial
development policy, support the establishment of Industrial Design Centers. The Government
of Ghana should therefore support the establishment of the Industrial Design Center in its
formative years (1-3 years).
4.0   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
(i)   Factors outside government control
*  The procurement of Consultants for GSB, CSIR and GTFC took a considerable time i.e.
longer than planned for in the Implementation Document;
*  Non-performance of some consultants procured for the project resulted in delays in the
implementation of the project. For instance, as a result of the non-performance of the South
African (CSIR) Consultant, CSIR (Ghana) was unable to obtain approval for the procurement
of important equipment on the master list. The difficulty encountered in reviving the project
after the abrogation of the first contract, resulted in significant time loss.
* Some of the Consultants were also late in the delivery of their final report.
*  There were occasional delays in obtaining 'no objections' for programs and activities. The
Bank also introduced other conditions, which were initially not included in the DCA. Two
examples of this "new" conditionalities were:
- 21 -



a.    The request for the Legal Opinion of the Attorney General as regards whether or not the
GSB had met all conditions for the disbursement of the line of credit for equipment procurement.
b.    The insistence that the GSB obtained ISO 9000 Certification before disbursement of the
equipment votes instead of the presentation of "Ian for the attainment of ISO 9000.
(ii)   Factors subject to government control
*  Mainstreaming of the project in the Ministry of Finance did not work in the case of the Private
Sector Development Project. On the contrary, available evidence indicates that contracting of
the project out to a project management team led to significant improvements in project
implementation.
*  The project started in October 1995 even though the agreement was signed in January 1995.
This delay greatly affected the performance of certain components of the project. In the case
of the CSIR, it took almost two years for the law establishing CSIR to be amended to
accommodate commercialization in its mandate. This was critical since the amendment of the
law was a condition for project effectiveness.
(iii)  Factors subject to Implementation Agency
*  No clear-cut indications of the role of the private sector participants on the oversight bodies
were provided. Considerable amount of time was spent to debate this issue and which
occasionally frustrated the implementation of the project's program.
*  The project was implemented by staff of beneficiaries who additionally performed their normal
duties. The implementation of the project's programs and Consultant's recommendations
could have been better and more effectively supervised if project management staff had been
solely assigned to the project.
3  Beneficiary agencies were not exempted from payment of various taxes on importation of
equipment and other items under the project. It was expected that the beneficiaries would
utilize their respective GOG matching funds to pay taxes. However the release of matching
funds to beneficiaries has proved problematic. The feeling is that it is now time for the Bank
and Government of Ghana to take a second look at the issue of matching funds which is
tending to slow down project implementation. Our recommendation is that, the Bank should
consider 100 per cent financing of similar projects.
5.0 BANK AND GOVERNMENT'S PERFORMANCE
5.1. Bank Performance
Project design was rather complex and its scheduling was inappropriate. A considerable
proportion of the project was made dependent on the results of consultancy studies. This
requirement meant that without the consultancy reports (including business plans) no further
activity could be undertaken. It was only after the acceptance of the reports of the studies that
expenditures for equipment that represented over 75% of the total financial support could be
utilized.
- 22 -



In some cases, the Bank changed conditions for disbursement midstream without
discussion with the Government of Ghana. For instance in the case of the Ghana Standards Board,
the bank changed its position from
(a) the development of a strategic plan for ISO 9000 " to (b) the provision of an ISO 9000
Certificate by GSB, before disbursement on Equipment.
In the case of the Industrial Design Center, the Bank changed the original position of procuring
basic equipment for the center without consulting government.
Furthermore, the Project's Task Team leader was changed several times during the project
period. All the above omissions and commnissions on the part of the Bank contributed in no small
way to the poor disbursement of PSDP funds.
5.2   Government's Performance
Matching fund was not provided regularly to the project; this affected the performance of
the various components. The unavailability of GOG matching fund made the day to day running
of the project very difficult. Workshops and seminars for effective linkages with the private sector
and other promotional activities could not be organized. For the same reason staff members who
spent extra duty hours on the project could not be given any compensation. There is also the need
to expedite action on policy decisions on which implementation of the project is dependent.
6.0   SUSTAINABILITY
*  The gains of the Project can be sustained. The project components were all designed to
enhance and increase the capacity to provide contractually delivered technical services and
technical capacity along commercially sustainable lines.
*  The provision of consultancy service on a fee- for- service basis increased EMPRETEC's
potential for self-sufficiency.
*  The studies carried out on the commercial capacity of the GTFA and an Industrial Design
Center have all focused on building a sustainable commercial framework through private
sector support for the services offered.
*  The sustainability of commercialization gains made by the CSIR and GSB will however
greatly depend upon the performance of the entire economy of Ghana. Most manufacturing
industries in Ghana (these form the main client base) are Micro and Small Scale ones. These
industries may not be able to afford the commercialized services of the CSIR & GSB. The
efforts of the GSB and CSIR may not be successful if these micro and small-scale industries
do not develop the ability to pay for these services.
*  CSIR Institutes and the Secretariat would require specific items of equipment recommended
by consultants with justification to enable them work efficiently and effectively and generate
income. The probability of obtaining these equipment under the present project does not
appear feasible.
*  The 2-year extension given by the World Bank to the Ghana Standards Board and the Legal
Sector components ensures sustainability because under PEPTA, the Strategic Plans would
begin to be implemented.
-23 -



7.0 LESSONS LEARNED
* Agreed time-bound programs should not be varied. A Project Monitoring Team should be
firm and take corrective measures as soon as irregularities are detected. One should not
hesitate to even abrogate a contract when attempts to solve problems amicably do not
succeed. This however should be done after the necessary consultations.
* It was well noted that much as a client should cooperate with any consulting team, the
consultants on the other hand should not come in with negative pre conceived ideas about a
client. There must always be mutual trust and respect.
* A flaw in the design of the TEDF led to initial poor performance of the fund. The flaw in the
project design, which failed to properly determine the ability of the target group to raise the
client contribution, which was pegged at 50% of the project cost. When the flaw was detected
and the cost ratio corrected to 70:30 in April 1999, the performance of the Fund was greatly
enhanced.
*  The project suffered greatly from lack of full time management at the initial stages since
full-time officers were not handling it. This made it difficult for the officers to follow-up on
pending actions either from the World Bank or from the Implementing Agencies. The position
improved considerably when a full time Project Coordinator was appointed to handle the
project. We therefore recommend that full-time Project Coordinators be appointed at the
inception of future projects.
*  We firther recommend that special workshops should be organized for officers from the
various implementing agencies to make them abreast with the World Bank procurement
procedures, contract award procedures etc.
* That the release of the matching fund should be made a requirement for projects like the
PSDP to realize their development objectives;
* That there should be clear cut roles for oversight bodies such the LSCC of the legal
component of the Project; We further recommend that such oversight Committees should be
involved in only policy issues rather than administrative ones;
* All future projects should have a well structured incentive packages built in project design to
ensure commitment.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicatom:
L___________  IkOj --   IntPR                                                 ,___L______                  ___
Private Sector contribution to GDP increased                                 1996: 14.2% 1997:14.80; 1999:14.6%
by 40% by eop
Growth in manufacturing sector increased by                                  1996: 3.0%; 1997: 5.4%; 1999: 4.8%
10% by eop
Growth in Services Sector increased by 12%                                   1996: 6.7%; 1999:17.7%
by eop
Output Indicators:
-_____-____._______                    Prq#gC is WPIE late
CSIR is market oriented and partially
commercialized
a. At least 300 SMEs adopt and or adapt at                                 unlikely
least six CSIR developed technologies by
2000
b. 30% revenue target achieved by 2000                                     BRRI: 1.9; FIR: 3.2; IIR 13.1
Key services of GSB upgraded to ISO
standards and commercialized
a. GSB accepted as member of the                                           ongoing
Intemational Quality Network (IQNET) by
2000
b. At least 30% of GSB budgetary                                           unlikely
resources are originated by the provision of
services to private firms by eop
c. At least 20 companies initiated into ISO                                unlikely
9000, ISO 14, 000 and ISO/IEC Guide by
eop
Technological productive and service delivery
capacities of Small, micro and medium size
enterprises strengthened
a. At least 100 TEDF assignments initiated                                 1996:12, 1997:74, 1998:77,1999:344
annually
b. 20 companies assisted to develop value                                  nla (U)
added products each year
c. 5 Companies assisted each year in the                                   n/a (U)
developing of export products
d. 20% of companies accessing TEDF                                         n/a (U)
assisted to source finance
Commercial, private operated, Industrial                                     unlikely
Design Center Established and operational
GTFCs developed into a viable Commercial
operation
Operational Capacity of legal institution
improved
a. 30% increase in the disposal of                                         n/a
commercial and industrial cases by 2000
b. Staff training program operational by                                   achieved
1999
c. Searching time at Registrar General's                                   n/a
Dept. reduced by 50% by 1999
d. Processing time for docs at Attomey                                     n/a
General's Dept reduced by 20%, by 2000
End of project
-25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million uivalent)
CSIR                                                 4.63           2.23           48
Ghana Standards Board                                2.38           1.17           49
TED Fund                                             3.97           2.46           63
Design Center                                        0.83           0.12           14
Ghana Trade Fair Company                             1.05           0.39           37
Legal Services Studies                               1.52           1.30           86
MFEP, MEST, MTI                                      0.03           0.96         3200
Unallocated                                          1.09           0.00            0
Total Baseline Cost                                 15.50           8.63
Total Project Costs            15.50            8.63
Total Financing Required             15.50           8.63
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                     1.70         0.30         0.00         0.20         2.20
I_____________________ I (1.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)
2. Goods                     3.50         0.00          1.10        0.50         5.10
(3.50)       (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.00)       (4.60)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.60          1.70        6.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.60)       (0.00)       (4.60)
4. Miscellaneous            .0.00         0.00         1.80         0.10         1.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.80)       (0.00)       (1.80)
Total                     5.20          0.30         7.50         2.50        15.50
(4.50)       (0.00)       (7.50)       (0.00)      (12.00)--
The amounts for IDA's share are estimates as specific expenditure categories were not specified in the
SAR.
-26 -



Project Costs by Procurment Arrangements (ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
6*fld--  .  t- .- 0          1GB                                         NiB8.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.03           0.07           0.00          0.10
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         1.34           0.00           1.48           0.00          2.82
(1.34)         (0.00)         (1.48)         (0.00)        (2.82)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           4.84           0.75          5.59
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.19)         (0.00)        (4.19)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.18           0.00          0.18
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.18)        (0.00)         (0.18)
Total                         1.34           0.03           6.57           0.75           8.69
_                               (1.34)         (0.00)         (5.85)         (0.00)         (7.19)
These figures are estimates based on information provided from the Borrower.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in USS million equivalent)
CSIR                      4.18      0.45                 2.00       0.23              47.8   51.1
G.S.B                     2.13      0.25                 0.98       0.19              46.0   76.0
TED Fund                  2.50      1.47                 1.78       0.74              71.2   50.3
Design Center             0.75      0.08                 0.11       0.01               14.7   12.5
Ghana Trade Fair Auth.    0.95      0.10                 0.39      0.00               41.1   28.6
Legal Services Studies    1.38      0.14                 1.26       0.04              91.3   28.6
MFEP, MEST, MTI           0.03      0.00                 0.73       0.23             2433.3  0.0
Unallocated               1.03      0.09                 0.00       0.00               0.0    0.0
-27-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development.
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Pgress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sr. Financial Economist
Sr. Financial Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision
6/1995                        1  Operations Officer                    S                 S
10/1995                       2  Operations Officer, TTL              S                 S
6/1996                        3  Operations Officer, Project          S                 S
Officer, TTL
2/1997                        3  TTL, 2 PSD specialists                S                 S
12/1997                       3  TTL, Operations Officer, PSD         U                 U
specialist
4/1998                        2  TTL, Operations Officer              U                 U
1/1999                        1  TTL                                  U                 U
6/1999                        4  TTL, Financial management,           U                 U
Legal, Procurement
10/1999                       4  TTL, Legal, Operations Officer,      U                 U
PSD specialist
4/2000                        1  TTL                                   S                 U
ICR
10/2000                      3   ICR author, TTL, Financial           S                 U
management
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
_________________         No. Staff weeks              USS 0400
Identification/Preparation                69                         311
Appraisal/Negotiation                     56                         275
Supervision                               94                         334
ICR                                        7                          35
Total                                    226                         955
-29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Physical                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
EL Financial                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
L Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
El Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-30-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS *U OIHU
OI Supervision                                       OHS OS   OU   OHU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  *U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS   *  u  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S   * U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   OU   O HU
OI Overall                                           OHS OS  *  u  O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Aide-Memoire and Back-to-Office Reports
*   Technical Annex and Memorandum of the President reports
*   Credit Agreement
*   Borrower's Evaluation Report
- 32 -



