Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2665 GH
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Private Sector Development Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 11, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2665 GH
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
    WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated
October 19, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen the
technological and financial capabilities of the private sector
(hereinafter called the Program), and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program;
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Beneficiaries" means MEST, MOJ, MTI, CSIR, the CSIR
Commercialized Institutes, the CSIR Secretariat, GSB, GTFA,
LSCC and EMPRETEC;
    (b)   "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
    (c)   "Commercialized CSIR Institutes" means the following
institutes under the supervision of CSIR which are to be
operated on a commercial basis: the Building and Roads Research
Institute, the Food Research Institute, the Industrial Research
Institute, and the Scientific Instrumentation Center;
    (d)   "CSIR" means the Borrower's Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research;
    (e)   "CSIR Secretariat" means the administrative secretariat
of CSIR;
    (f)   "EMPRETEC" means EMPRETEC Ghana Foundation, a non-
profit making company established under the laws of the
Borrower, designated by the Borrower to act as the fund manager
for the TED Fund;
    (g)   "GSB" means the Ghana Standards Board, established
under the Standards Decree 1973 (N.R.C.D. 173);
    (h)   "GTFA" means the Ghana Trade Fair Authority,
established pursuant to the Ghana Trade Fair Authority Law,
1989 (P.N.D.C.L. 215), and operated under the ministerial
supervision of MTI;
    (i)   "ISO" means the International Standards Organization;
    (j)   "LSCC" means the legal sector coordinating committee,
established by the Borrower to implement Part D of the Project;
    (k)   "MFEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning;
    (l)   "MEST" means the Borrower's Ministry of Environment,
Science and Technology;
    (m)   "MOJ" means the Borrower's Ministry of Justice;
    (n)   "MTI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and
Industry;
    (o)   "PCT" means the project coordination team established
within MFEP to coordinate Project implementation;
    (p)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to the letter agreement dated March 16, 1994, and
confirmed March 31, 1994, between the Borrower and the
Association;
    (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Page  3
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (r)   "TED Fund" means the technology and enterprise
development fund established under Part B of the Project;
    (s)   "TED Fund Framework Agreement" means the agreement
between EMPRETEC and the Borrower relating to the execution of
Part B of the Project; and
    (t)   "TED Fund Procedures Manual" means the procedures
manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
governing EMPRETEC's operation of the TED Fund, to be annexed
to the TED Fund Framework Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 9,000,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   After the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, promptly withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
Page  4
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15,
commencing May 15, 2005 and ending November 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out (i) Part A.1
of the Project through MEST, CSIR, the CSIR Secretariat and the
Commercialized CSIR Institutes, (ii) Part A.2 of the Project
through MTI and GSB, (iii) Part B of the Project through MTI
and EMPRETEC, (iv) Part C.1 of the Project through MTI and
GTFA, (v) Part C.2 of the Project through MEST and MTI's Ghana
Export Promotion Council, and (vi) Part D of the Project
through MOJ, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, scientific and
financial practices, and with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
Page  5
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations
under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   open and maintain in a commercial bank a private sector
development project account, to be managed by MFEP under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to be used
exclusively for the purposes of meeting expenditures under the
Project; and
    (b)   in addition to the initial deposit referred to in
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, deposit into said account
promptly before each fiscal quarter starting after the
Effective Date, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of
the Project required for such ensuing quarter, as estimated by
the Borrower in consultation with the Association.
    Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause
the Beneficiaries to carry out, jointly with the Association,
semiannual reviews of the progress made in carrying out the
Project and the Program.
    Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, and shall
cause the Beneficiaries to carry out, jointly with the
Association, not earlier than April 1, 1997 and not later than
June 30, 1997, a midterm review of the progress made in
carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall
cover, among other things: (i) progress in commercializing the
operations of CSIR, the Commercialized CSIR Institutes and GSB,
(ii) progress regarding the accreditation of GSB by ISO, (iii)
operations of the TED Fund and EMPRETEC, and compliance with
the TED Fund Framework Agreement and the TED Fund Procedures
Manual, (iv) adequacy of institutional arrangements for Project
implementation, (v) the findings of the studies prepared under
the Project, (vi) the effectiveness of training provided under
the Project, (vii) the development by the Borrower of a legal
sector development strategy, (viii) review of the monitoring
indicators agreed upon with the Association, and (ix) status of
procurement and disbursement under the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at
least 45 days prior to the midterm review described in
paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory
to the Association, describing the status of the items listed
in such paragraph and of Project and Program implementation
generally.
    (c)   Based on such midterm review, the Borrower shall
promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association,
for the further implementation of the Project and the Program,
and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
    Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Page  6
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of (i)
EMPRETEC and (ii) the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause EMPRETEC to:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than six months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning said records,
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall, and shall cause EMPRETEC to:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Page  7
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out; and
    (b)   (i) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that EMPRETEC or the Borrower will be
able to perform its obligations under the TED Fund Framework
Agreement; or (ii) EMPRETEC's articles of association, or any
provisions of the TED Fund Framework Agreement or the TED Fund
Procedures Manual shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior consent of the
Association; or (iii) the Borrower or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of EMPRETEC, or for the
suspension of its operations; or (iv) the Borrower or EMPRETEC
shall have failed to perform any of their respective
obligations under the TED Fund Framework Agreement, including
EMPRETEC's obligation to conduct its activities in accordance
with the TED Fund Procedures Manual.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the Cabinet of the Borrower shall have approved for
submission to Parliament a bill, satisfactory to the
Association, enhancing the commercial nature of CSIR's
operations;
    (b)   the TED Fund Framework Agreement, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, shall have been duly signed by
EMPRETEC and the Borrower, and EMPRETEC shall have adopted the
TED Fund Procedures Manual, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association;
    (c)   the Borrower shall have established the private sector
development project account referred to in Section 3.02 and
shall have deposited therein an initial amount in Cedis
equivalent to $60,000;
    (d)   the Borrower shall have established the PCT under terms
of reference (including staffing) as agreed upon with the
Association;
    (e)   the LSCC shall have been established with membership
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association,
and shall have prepared detailed terms of reference and letters
of invitation for: (i) a study on the library requirements of
the MOJ and the judiciary, (ii) a study on the operation of the
judiciary, and (iii) a study on the production and
dissemination of legal information; and
    (f)   the CSIR Secretariat shall have established, for use by
the Commercialized CSIR Institutes, a model staff restructuring
plan, satisfactory to the Association, for adjusting the ratio
of administrative/support staff to research and technical staff
to 4:1 by January 1, 1996, and to 3:1 by January 1, 1998.
Page  8
    Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister for Finance and
            Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                ECONOMICON                       2205 MIFAEP GH
                Accra
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                               197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                       By /s/ Ekwow Spio-Garbrah
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
Page  9
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated           % of
                                 (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Consultants' Ser-             2,220,000            100%
    vices and Training
    for the Project
    (other than Part B)
(2) Equipment and                                     100% of foreign
    Materials:                                        expenditures and
                                                      90% of local
                                                      expenditures
    (a) for Part A of            2,750,000
        the Project
    (b) for Part C.2 of            280,000
        the Project
    (c) for Part D of the          170,000
        Project and Project
        Administration
(3) Vehicles and Vehicle           270,000           100% of foreign
    Maintenance                                      expenditures and
                                                     90% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                 Amount of the
                               Credit Allocated           % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Civil Works:                                     90%
    (a) for Part A of               200,000
        the Project
    (b) for Part C.1 of             490,000
        the Project
(5) TED Fund:
    (a) Consultants'              1,400,000          100%
        Services and
        Training
    (b) Office Equip-                25,000          100%
        ment
    (c) EMPRETEC's                  265,000          100%
        Management Fee
(6) Refunding of                    280,000          Amount due
    Project                                          pursuant to
    Preparation                                      Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                          of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                     650,000
                                  _________
Page  10
    TOTAL                         9,000,000
                                  =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   the term equipment and materials for "Project
Administration" means equipment and materials acquired by MFEP,
MEST, MOJ and MTI to administer implementation of the Project;
    (d)   the term "training" means fellowships, conferences,
workshops, courses and other forms of training, each as are
approved by the Association; and
    (e)   the term "EMPRETEC's Management Fee" means the
management fee charged by EMPRETEC to manage the TED Fund and
covering salaries, travel allowances, vehicle operating costs,
advertising, outreach costs, and other costs.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
    (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
    (b)   under Category (2)(a) until (i) each of the
Commercialized CSIR Institutes shall have adopted business
plans (including training programs) satisfactory to the
Association, (ii) GSB shall have adopted a business plan
satisfactory to the Association, setting out, inter alia,
actions to obtain ISO 9000 accreditation, (iii) the CSIR
Secretariat, each of the Commercialized CSIR Institutes and GSB
shall have appointed a marketing manager, under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association, (iv) each of the Commercialized CSIR
Institutes shall have adopted a staffing plan, satisfactory to
the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, for an
adjustment in the ratio of administrative/support staff to
research and technical staff to 4:1 by January 1, 1996, and to
3:1 by January 1,1998, and (v) the CSIR Secretariat, each of
the Commercialized CSIR Institutes and GSB shall have adopted
an inter-institutional rationalization plan, regarding the
sharing of equipment and usage targets, which shall enhance
their commercialization and be satisfactory to the Association;
    (c)   under Category (2)(b) until the Borrower has (i)
established, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the
commercial feasibility of the design center under Part C.2 of
the Project, and (ii) adopted an organizational, implementation
and staffing plan for the design center, satisfactory to the
Association;
    (d)   under Category (4)(b) until the Borrower has (i)
established, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the
commercial feasibility of the GTFA rehabilitation activities
under Part C.1 of the Project, and (ii) adopted a restructuring
plan for GTFA satisfactory to the Association; and
    (e)   under Category (5)(b) unless, at the time of the mid-
term review referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the
Borrower establishes, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, that the TED Fund has been operated in accordance
with the TED Fund Procedures Manual with a view towards
augmenting the capacity of the private sector to mobilize
Page  11
financing.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
fostering the development of Ghana's private sector by (a)
improving the efficiency of technical research and development
activities, (b) increasing access to financial expertise for
project feasibility assessments, (c) enhancing the
effectiveness of export promotion and design activities, and
(d) improving the delivery of legal services.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Research and Development Activities
1.  Increasing the effectiveness of the technical research and
development activities of CSIR and the Commercialized CSIR
Institutes by commercializing their activities, strengthening
their procedures, and improving their equipment and staff
resources.
2.  Improving the effectiveness of GSB, inter alia, by
commercializing its activities and implementing a program to
establish ISO 9000 accreditation.
Part B:   Technology and Enterprise Development
    Establishment and operation of a technology and enterprise
development fund to increase the access of small- and medium-
sized private sector enterprises to specialized business
advisors, and to assist the private sector in mobilizing
financial resources by improving its capability to design and
prepare financing proposals.
Part C:   Export Promotion
1.  Development and implementation of a restructuring plan for
the GTFA to improve its facilities and the efficiency of its
operations, including preparation of a feasibility study for an
international trade and business center, a survey of the
rehabilitation and redesign requirements of its existing
facilities, and rehabilitation of facilities.
2.  Preparation of a feasibility study regarding the creation of
an industrial design center, and development and execution of
an implementation plan to equip and otherwise support the
center's establishment.
Part D:   Legal Sector
    Strengthening the operational capacity of legal sector
institutions through, inter alia, training of personnel,
improving the legal information systems, and the development of
institutional reform proposals.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
Page  12
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.1 (a)
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more.
3.  Goods procured under this Part A shall be exempted from pre-
shipment price inspection by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
Page  13
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at
least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56
thereof).
2.  Items or groups of items for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association
3.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.  Contracts for proprietary equipment, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ, and shall cause the Beneficiaries to
employ, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
and the Beneficiaries shall employ such consultants under
Page  14
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts financed from the TED Fund estimated to cost less
than $20,000 equivalent each, or (b) other contracts for the
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each, or (c) other contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $25,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association
review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts financed from the
TED Fund raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or
above, (e) amendments to other contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above, or (f) amendments to other contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $25,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall operate the PCT under terms of reference
(including staffing) acceptable to the Association.
2.  MEST shall prepare in consultation with the Beneficiaries,
and transmit to the Association, semiannual reports, in scope
and detail satisfactory to the Association, regarding
implementation of the Project and, in the case of the
Commercialized CSIR Institutes and GSB, projected equipment,
training and other resource requirements.
3.  Beginning not later than December 31, 1995, the Borrower
shall, in carrying out Part A of the Project, cause the
governing council of the CSIR and the management board of each
Commercialized CSIR Institute to have at least 40% membership
from the private sector.
4.  In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause:
    (a)   CSIR, the CSIR Secretariat, the Commercialized CSIR
Institutes and GSB to be operated in accordance with commercial
principles satisfactory to the Association, relating, inter
alia, to the marketing of their services, their staffing, their
incentive structures, the allocation of equipment and revenues,
and to the composition of CSIR's governing body and the
procedures for selecting its Director General;
    (b)   the Commercialized CSIR Institutes to implement, in a
timely manner, the staff restructuring plan adopted in
accordance with paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
so as to adjust the ratio of administrative/support staff to
research and technical staff to 4:1 by January 1, 1996, and to
3:1 by January 1, 1998;
    (c)   the Commercialized CSIR Institutes to adopt, not later
than January 1 of each year, a training program satisfactory to
the Association; and
    (d)   the Commercialized CSIR Institutes and GSB to adopt
annual equipment acquisition schedules, satisfactory to the
Page  15
Association, to meet projected work requirements, and
thereafter implement such programs in a timely manner (with
such modifications thereto as may be agreed to by the
Association).
5.  In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause the TED Fund to be operated by EMPRETEC under operational
procedures satisfactory to the Association, which shall
provide, inter alia: (a) for cost sharing contributions by TED
Fund recipients; (b) for the execution of a letter of
understanding between EMPRETEC and such recipients, in form
satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, inter
alia, for the ex ante deposit of the recipient's share of the
initial payments due the consultants; (c) for EMPRETEC to
conduct promotional activities for the TED Fund; (d) for
periodic monitoring and reporting of the TED Fund activities;
(e) for the management of the TED Fund by EMPRETEC to be
carried out in accordance with the TED Fund Procedures Manual,
and for the amendment of such manual only with the prior
consent of the Association; (f) for semiannual financial audits
of the TED Fund, which shall be transmitted to the Association
promptly upon completion; (g) for quarterly management and
technical audits, which shall be transmitted to the Association
promptly upon completion; (h) for maintaining and updating
annually a roster of eligible consultants; (i) for the
procurement of consultants financed from the TED Fund to bemade in accordance with 
Part II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, except that prior Association review shall be
required for the first ten contracts for consultants' services
funded from the TED Fund; and (j) the total amount of financing
any recipient can receive under the TED Fund shall be limited
to $40,000 equivalent.
6.  In carrying out part B of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause EMPRETEC to maintain, as the manager and
financial/administrative officer of the TED Fund, persons under
terms of reference and with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
7.  In carrying out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall implement financing and action plans,
satisfactory to the Association.
8.  In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   operate the LSCC under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, for the
development and submission to the Borrower of a legal sector
development strategy not later than June 30, 1996; and
    (b)   adopt, not later than January 1 of each year, a
training program satisfactory to the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
Page  16
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$1,500,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Page  17
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts of
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
