Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4225 
Operation Name 
Second Competitiveness & Employment Development Policy 
Loan 
Region 
Europe and Central Asia 
Sector 
Banking (70%);General finance sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P096840 
Borrower(s) 
Republic of Turkey  
Implementing Agency 
Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Date PID Prepared 
October 9, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 8, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
November 25, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Five factors have contributed to the achievement and preservation of economic growth and 
stability since Turkey’s economic crisis in 2001: (1) Broad political stability, as a strong single-
party government helped assure policy continuity. (2) Good economic management anchored in 
strong fiscal discipline and an independent monetary policy. (3) A program of structural 
reforms—including social security reform, financial sector reform, energy sector reforms, 
privatizations, business environment, and central bank independence—that encouraged both 
domestic and foreign investment. (4) Until recently, a global economic environment of high 
liquidity and ready flows towards emerging markets. (5) A good use of external anchors—
including the EU accession process, IMF programs, and World Bank policy-based lending—to 
signal present and future policy commitment. Growth has contributed to reduce poverty (from 27 
percent in 2002 to 18 percent in 2006), but employment generation remains moderate.  Broad 
political stability has now returned with the Constitutional Court’s decision at the end of July 
2008 not to close the ruling party, AKP—although underlying political tensions remain. Sound 
economic management and a strong reform agenda also remain in place, as does the EU 
accession process which the authorities remain fully committed to and continue pursuing as a 
priority—while discussions about a possible new IMF arrangement, after the successful 
conclusion of the previous arrangement in May 2008, are ongoing.  At the same time, the world 
economy is now in a downturn and global financial markets are liquidity constrained—placing a 
premium on the importance of Turkey’s continuing reform agenda and international support for 
it, including from the World Bank. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The specific objectives of the government’s Competitiveness and Employment Program, 
supported by CEDPL2, are to help (i) raise export competitiveness and FDI by contributing to 
improve the investment climate; (ii) enhance the efficiency and depth of the financial sector; and 
(iii) expand employment opportunities through labor market reforms and skill building. 
Page  2
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
This Second Competitiveness and Employment Loan (CEDPL II) supports advances in the 
implementation of the government’s Competitiveness and Employment program since mid-2007.  
Measures undertaken by the Turkish administration and supported under the program are 
expected to contribute to raise the average annual export growth rate and FDI inflows; and 
increase the labor force participation, especially of the young and women and further reduce 
poverty. While the first in a series of two programmatic operations (CEDPL 2 and CEDPL 3), it 
builds on the initial CEDPL (Board Date: June 28, 2007), a self-standing loan that supported the 
early implementation of the program. The government’s Competitiveness and Employment 
program is a central pillar of Turkey’s 9
th
 Development Plan, and the proposed loan is a 
cornerstone of the 2008 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), which fully integrates the Bank’s 
activities for FY08-11 into the 
9
th
 Development Plan
.
The program objectives will be achieved through reforms supported by the three pillars: a) 
enhancing export competitiveness, FDI through investment climate reforms (in particular 
transforming knowledge into productivity gains; improving the ease of doing business and 
advancing the privatization program); b) improving Financial Intermediation by ensuring 
financial sector stability; enabling the development of the non-banking financial institutions and 
reducing risk and other costs for financial intermediation; and c) expanding employment 
opportunities by reducing the non wage cost of hiring; increasing labor market flexibility while 
improving the protection of workers in case of job-loss and raising labor skills and reducing 
labor mismatch. In particular, the CEDPL 2 operation will specifically support the following 
measures, among others (and in addition to the continued adoption of sound macroeconomic 
policies): 
 
·
the enactment of the new Research and Development Law, the simplification of customs 
procedures, the amendment to the Land Registry Law, and the advancement of Turkey’s 
privatization program, policy measures that contribute to improve the investment climate and 
thereby raise export competitiveness and FDI;  
·
the enactment of the new Insurance Law and of corporate governance regulations in the 
Capital Markets, measures that will contribute to enhance the stability, efficiency and depth 
of the financial sector; and  
·
the enactment of a first-phase Labor Market reform law and advances in defining 
competency-based occupation standards which will help to create more and better 
employment opportunities. 
The Government of Turkey plans to advance these reforms and the enactment of a new 
commercial code; a new capital markets law and the implementation of the second phase of labor 
market reforms are among the key priorities. 
Page  3
4. Financing 
 
The full IBRD loan is expected to be withdrawn in a single tranche in an amount equivalent to 
US$500 million. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Undersecretariat of Treasury will be responsible for the overall implementation of the 
proposed operation and for reporting process and coordinating actions among other concerned 
ministries and agencies. The Bank will monitor actions and review progress of the 
implementation of the proposed operation, as well as the subsequent actions of the Turkish 
Government’s program by using the short term and overall program outcomes outlined in the 
Policy Matrix. 
Concurrently, the overall status of the Turkish Government’s program will be jointly monitored 
during supervision to determine whether the specific conditions for the development of the 
program have changed. Supervision missions will allow the Bank to continue the policy dialogue 
with the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Ministries involved in the implementation of the 
program of reform, and ensure synergies with other donors to avoid conflicting advice to the 
Government in the policy and technical areas involved in the reforms. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Reforms supported by CEDPL 2 have been implemented and the risk of reversal is low. 
Nonetheless, the CEDPL Program carries (i) external; (ii) political and (iii) program-specific 
risks. 
·
(i) High external financing needs and widening current account deficits make Turkey 
vulnerable to a sudden reversal in capital flows.  The main risk is of worsening investor 
sentiment, whether due to domestic Turkish factors or external factors, leading to an abrupt 
capital outflow and real depreciation.  The key to both minimizing the chances of this and 
navigating such an event are continued strong economic management, particularly fiscal 
policy, structural reforms aimed at increasing productivity and exports, and domestic 
political stability. 
 
·
(ii) The single party government and its strong majority in Parliament support political 
stability and the environment for reforms.  Nonetheless, internal politics create substantial 
risks for reform implementation.  These include: (a) recurrence of intensified focus on 
domestic political issues, including those driven by underlying social tensions about 
constitutional reforms; (ii) upcoming municipal elections which could lead to a moderate and 
temporary increase in public expenditures and reduce the chances of approval of politically 
sensitive structural reforms; (iii) the implications of possible continuing border tensions as 
well as geopolitical events in neighboring regions. 
 
·
(iii) The government’s program expected to be supported by the planned CEDPL 3 operation 
includes three key reforms whose enactment and implementation will be challenging: (i) 
Page  4
Political support for the enactment of the Commercial Code is on the rise, but its massive 
scale may make Parliamentary passage difficult);  (ii) The Capital Markets law was prepared 
in collaboration with the private sector and enjoys broad support from experts, but its 
enactment requires the previous approval of the commercial code; (iii)  The second-phase 
labor market reform will likely prove the most difficult
 element of the government’s 
Competitiveness and Employment Program, because of the intrinsic political economy 
challenges of introducing regulation to make labor markets more flexible. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The reforms supported under the Competitiveness and Employment Program are expected to 
contribute to reduction in poverty in Turkey in the long-term.  Overall, measures to raise export 
competiveness and foreign direct investments by strengthening the investment climate are 
designed to support a virtuous cycle of growth, employment generation, and productivity gains.  
A
well-functioning financial sector enables the poor to benefit disproportionally more from 
economic growth, inducing pro-poor growth.  While, on balance the privatization program is 
geared to raise productivity and growth potential of the privatized enterprises, it does affect laid-
off workers and their families negatively in the short-run.  The Government, with Bank support, 
has designed and is implementing a labor adjustment program, which offers laid-off workers job-
loss compensation as well as retraining and temporary employment support.  The privatization 
transaction supported under this operation included the implementation of these social measures 
to support laid-off workers and their families.  The short-term adverse impact on laid-off workers 
and their families has been mitigated with all workers having received agreed job-loss 
compensation and having been offered employment in a temporary employment program as well 
as retraining. 
The labor market and skill building measures supported under this operation are expected to have 
short-term and positive poverty and equality impacts.  Measures supported are expected to raise 
employment of women and young people, which would, according to the Poverty and Social 
Impact Assessment, benefit mostly poorer workers and their families.  Similarly, the active labor 
market programs forming part of the 
Employment Package 
are expected to have an overall 
progressive impact as directed primarily to unemployed workers, which have a significantly 
higher poverty rate than employed workers. 
Stakeholder meetings with workers, unions, employers and employers’ associations have been 
held as part of the policy dialogue over the past months. Specific recommendations on youth 
employment have been discussed with youth groups and unions as part of report consultations.  
In addition a large number of seminars and workshops have been undertaken jointly with the 
administration, in the last twelve months. These events deepened and broadened consultations 
with the civil society. In June 2008, a two-day seminar to review the results of the 2007 ICA and 
discuss next steps was sponsored by the YOIKK and the Bank. 
The CEDPL 2 supported Program is not likely to have a significant negative effect on the 
environment, natural resources, and forests.  Rather, as the operation supports measures that 
contribute to a shift towards a more export-oriented, skills-intensive and productivity-based 
growth path, CEDPL 2 is expected to contribute to reducing the industrial pollution content of 
growth. There are four reasons for that assessment. First, CEDPL 2 supports measures aimed at 
Page  5
deepening Turkey’s trade integration and enterprises oriented to EU and OECD markets are 
more likely to meet international standards than firms mainly oriented to local consumers. 
Second, measures promoting innovation and skills are expected to contribute
 indirectly
 to reduce 
the pollution content of growth by enabling the expansion of technology-intensive and cleaner 
sectors (e.g. automotive) to the detriment of low-tech and high polluters (e.g. textiles).  Third, 
some CEDPL 2 supported measures to help strengthen Turkey’s innovation policy, including 
government’s support to the development of clean technologies (as for example in the case of 
Technology Development Foundation of Turkey), expected to contribute 
directly
 to the reduction 
of industrial pollution. Fourth, as state-owned enterprises have shown to be less compliant with 
the environmental legislations, by supporting the advancement of the privatization program in 
the June 2007-June 2008 period, CEDPL 2 is likely to contribute to lower levels of 
contamination in Turkey. 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Paulo Guilherme Correa 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1574 
Fax:  
Email: pcorrea@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
