Report No. PID10990
Project Name             Bangladesh-Financial Services for (@)
the Poorest
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Financial Sector Development
Project ID               BDPE74731
Borrower(s)              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Implementing Agency
Address PALLI KARMA-SAHAYAK FOUNDATION (PKSF)
Address: House # 31/A, Road #8, Dhanmondi R/A,
Dhaka - 1205. Bangladesh
Contact Person: Dr. Salehuddin Ahmed,
Managing Director
Tel: (880-2) 912-6240
Fax: (880-2) 912-6244
Email: pksf@citechco.net
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        June 13, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      June 1, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 24, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Alleviate poverty in Bangladesh by making opportunities and assets
available to
the poor.
2. Objectives
To extend financial services, through innovative delivery mechanisms to a
section of the extreme poor to improve their socio-economic status.To
train extreme poor borrowers for specific wage employment skills.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The objective of the LIL is to find models of sustainable interventions
for reducing the number of the extreme poor through use of microcredit and
other financial services to enhance their incomes and livelihood. This
LIL will attempt to answer questions whether microcredit is useful for the
poorest of the poor and whether it can be made more effective by combining
with other support services such as safety nets, training, marketing
services and awareness raising. It will experiment with alternative
delivery models to extend micro-financial services to the poorest of the
poor, who usually live on safety nets (both public and private),
charities, and/or irregular and low-paid jobs and hardly have the
opportunity to enhance their income and get out of the poverty
trap.Various studies have shown that the poorest of the poor totalling
approximately 12 million individuals or 2.5 million households in
Bangladesh, are not reached by the regular or mainstream micro-credit
programs due to various constraints. These constraints can be grouped
broadly under two categories: those relating to the socioeconomic
conditions of the extreme poor, which have bearings on their capacity and



skills to use loans for financially viable activities; and those relating
specifically to regular microcredit, which include lack of multiple income
earning sources, seasonal shortfalls in income, lack of grace periods,
mandatory weekly savings, unwillingness of peer groups to accept a
perceived "higher risk" member, specific demographic factors, and higher
incidence of ill-health amongst the extreme poor. Moreover, the
microfinance institutions (MFIs) acting as intermediaries often shy away
from the extreme poor because of higher delivery costs and risks. The
studies also indicate that if the constraints for exclusion are properly
addressed, it may be possible to extend financial services to this
neglected section of the poor, so that they can use microcredit as the
ladder to climb out of poverty. This LIL will pilot various delivery
models that address the identified constraints so that the extreme poor
are motivated to join the microcredit program and the MFIs are encouraged
to offer tailor-made programs that suit the special needs of the extreme
poor.
4. Description
The proposed project would include the following components:I. Microcredit
Component. This component will finance the revolving fund which will be
used by the POs to extend microcredit to the extreme poor. Participating
POs will be free to design the delivery of financial services to the
target group within the broad parameters set by PKSF. These parameters
will give the range for setting interest rates to borrowers, savings
requirements, maturity of loans, repayment period and frequency, purpose
of the loan, linkage with other safety nets, group meetings, and IGA
training. The structured flexibility will allow the POs to innovate
delivery models that suit the needs and characteristics of the target
groups.II. Capacity Building Component. This component comprises three
subcomponents for capacity building of PKSF, the participating POs and the
targeted borrowers respectively.(a) The PKSF subcomponent will focus on
setting up a Financial Services for the Poorest Unit which will be
responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The
incremental cost of setting up and operating this Unit and the Research
Cell, responsible for the M&E component, will be supported under the LIL
on a declining proportion basis. The staff in these two units will
receive training on MIS for the M&E, supervision and research skills.(b)
The POs subcomponent will finance the incremental costs of the POs for
delivering the programs to the target groups, and their capacity building
needs, on a declining proportion basis. The capacity building needs will
be met mainly through staff training focusing on strengthening of
reporting and MIS, account keeping, and training of beneficiaries.(c)
The borrowers subcomponent will focus on providing the target groups with
acquisition of specific skills for engagement in sustainable income
generating activities. Training would cover embroidery/needle
work/sewing, tailoring, candle making, bee rearing, umbrella making,
handicrafts, vegetable cultivation and seed production, betel leaf
production, poultry and livestock rearing, shoe repairing and polishing,
carpentry, pottery and bangle making, silver ornaments making, and other
trades. Upon completion of training, target group members will have the
option to either take microcredit for self-employment, or apply for wage
labor in microenterprises.III. Disaster Fund for the Poorest. A Disaster
Fund will be created by PKSF by deducting a small percentage of
disbursements to POs and depositing the said amounts in a separate
account. The Fund will be used to compensate borrowers for losses caused
- 2 -



by natural disasters and other events beyond their control.IV. Monitoring
and Evaluation Component. A well-designed M & E system to monitor the
chosen indicators and to collect and analyze data to test the stated
hypothesis, will be set up in the Research Cell of PKSF. Monitoring will
be done at three levels: the method of delivery of microcredit to the
beneficiaries and other financial services; the demand for the financial
services and the increase in income due to its effective use and other
benefits accrued under the project; and a cost-benefit analysis to
determine the extent to which project objectives have been achieved.
I.    Microcredit                                  US$3.00 million
II.   Capacity Building of:
(i)  Borrowers                          US$0.73 million
(ii) POs                                US$0.77 million
(iii)PKSF                               US$0.10 million
III. Disaster Fund for the Poorest                US$0.31 million
IV. Monitoring & Evaluation                       US$0.09 million
TOTAL                          US$5.00 million
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                                          $1.00
IBRD
IDA                                              $5.00
Total Project Cost                                $6.00
6. Implementation
PKSF would have the overall management responsibility for coordination and
implementation of the LIL. Under a Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement
(SLGA), GOB would (a) onlend US$3.00 million equivalent from the Credit
proceeds to PKSF at an interest rate of 1.25 percent p.a. for the
microcredit component; and (b) make available to PKSF the balance amount
of the Credit as grant for the Capacity Building, Disaster Fund for the
Poorest and M&E components. PKSF will on-lend to the selected POs under
sub-project agreements, and the POs in turn will make the funds available
to their microcredit borrowers.
7. Sustainability
The results of this LIL will determine whether microcredit to the poorest
is a sustainable activity for the POs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Some of the lessons learned from the first Microfinance project are:strong
institutional development efforts are needed if POs are to become
sustainable.a "business plan" showing its strategic goals, expansion
plans, institutional development needs, and measures to attain them, is a
useful management tool for PKSF and POs.evaluation of the
creditworthiness, institutional capacity, and empowerment efforts of all
POs in making a sustainable positive impact on borrowers is
necessary.intensive supervision and monitoring of POs by skilled staff
with sensitivity to clients is essential for maintaining portfolio quality.
- 3 -



9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         The income generating activities that will be
supported under this LIL, as indicated above, are not expected to have any
adverse impact on the environment or involve resettlement. Moreover, the
size and scope of the activities would be small enough for the producers
to mitigate any adverse impact themselves. No adverse impact on
indigenous peoples is expected as they are not present in the pilot areas
chosen for the LIL. Therefore, the social and environmental risks under
this LIL are minimal.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Shamsuddin Ahmad
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (880-2) 966-9301
Fax: (880-2) 861-3220
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



