ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frcc of Povarty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: (16/02/2002                                   24014
Section I - Basic Information                                           June 2, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BANGLADESH                               Project ID: P074731
Project: Financial Services for the Poorest      Task Team Leader: Shamsudldin Ahmad
Authorized to Appraise Date: Jujne 1, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 17, 2002                     IDA Amount ($m): 5.00
Managing Unit: SASFP                              Sector: FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme: POVERTY REDUCTION
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
To extend financial services, through innovative delivery mechanisms to a
section of the extreme poor to imnprove their socio-economic status.
To train extreme poor borrowers for specific wage employment skills.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would include the following components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description
and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
1. Microcredit Component. This component will finance the revolving fund which will be used by the
POs to extend microcredit to the extreme poor. Participating POs will be free to design the delivery of
financial services to the target group within the broad parameters set by PKSF. These parameters will
give the range for setting interest rates to borrowers, savings requirements, maturity of loans, repayment
period and frequency, purpose of the loan, linkage with other safety nets, group meetings, and IGA
training. The structured flexibility will allow the POs to innovate delivery models that suit the needs and
characteristics of the target gro ips.
11. Capacity Building Component. This component comprises three subcomponents for capacity building
of PKSF, the participating POs and the targeted borrowers respectively.
(a)  The PKSF subcomponent will focus on setting up a Financial Services for the Poorest
Unit which will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The



2
ISDS
incremental cost of setting up and operating this Unit and the Research Cell, responsible
for the M&E component, will be supported under the LIL on a declining proportion
basis. The staff in these two units will receive training on MIS for the M&E, and
supervision ancl research skills.
(b)  The POs subcomponent will finance the incremental costs of the POs for delivering the
programs to the target groups, and their capacity building needs, on a declining
proportion basis. The capacity building needs will be met mainly through staff training
focusing on strengthening of reporting and MIS, account keeping, and training of
beneficiaries.
(c)  The borrowers subcomponent will focus on providing the target groups with acquisition
of specific skills for engagement in sustainable income generating activities. Training
would cover embroidery/needle work/sewing, tailoring, candle making, bee rearing,
umbrella making, handicrafts, vegetable cultivation and seed production, betel leaf
production, poultry and livestock rearing, shoe repairing and polishing, carpentry,
pottery and bangle making, silver ornaments making, and other trades. Upon completion
of training, target group members will have the option to either take microcredit for
self-employment, or apply for wage labor in microenterprises.
111. Disaster Fund. A Disaster Fund will be created by PKSF by deducting a small percentage of
disbursements to POs and depositing the said amounts in a separate account. The Fund will be used to
compensate borrowers for losses caused by natural disasters and other events beyond their control.
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation Component. A well-designed M & E system to monitor the chosen
indicators and to collect and analyze data to test the stated hypothesis, will be set up in the Research Cell
of PKSF. Monitoring will be done at three levels: the method of delivery of microcredit to the
beneficiaries and other financial services; the demand for the financial services and the increase in
income due to its effective use and other benefits accrued under the project; and a cost-benefit analysis to
determine the extent to which project objectives have been achieved. Details are given in Section B6.
Components                    Bank Financing
1. Microcredit                   US$3.00 million
I1. Capacity Building of:
(i) Borrowers               US$0.76 million
(ii) POs                    US$0.74 million
(iii)PKSF                   US$0.10 million
111. Disaster Fund               US$0.31 million
IV. Monitoring & Evaluation      US$0.09 million
TOTAL               US$5.00 million
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Although the poorest of the poor are scattered all over Bangladesh, there are certain areas where there is a
concentration. The POs together with PKSF have identified the areas where the pilot will be implemented.
Considering the concentration of the poorest, a greater part of the project will be implemented in the
northem areas of Bangladesh, including Dinajpur, Bogra, Naogaon, Gaibandha, Jamalpur, Netrokona, and



3
ISDS
Kushtia.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                       Yes * No      TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                          Yes *No       TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes *No       TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes *No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   LYes *No         TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/EIP 4.12)                         Yes *No       TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes *No       TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                    Yes *No     .TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*              Yes 0 No    ' TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            Yes 0 No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguaral Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The income generating activities that will be supported under this LIL, as indicated above, are inot
expected to have any adverse inpact on the environment or involve resettlement. Moreover, the size and
scope of the activities would be small enough for the producers to mitigate any adverse impact
themselves. No adverse impact on indigenous peoples is expected as they are not present in the pilot
areas chosen for the LIL. Ther.fore, the social and environmental risks under this LIL are miimal.
II.D. 1 b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No safeguard policies are triggered as a result of the LIL.
The social risks of undertaking the LIL are low, as the activities and borrowers are nonpolitical. With
PKSF and POs leading the project implementation, project benefits are not subject to easy captire by
influential groups. The poterntial positive social outcomes are high, and could enh-iance the public's
appreciation of the Bank's effort on poverty reduction.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The potential long term impact due to future activities will, in most cases, be an increase in income and
improvement in the livelihood of the borrowers. However, around 5 percent of the borrowers may not be
able to repay the loans for various reasons. While the POs will review the reasons for default and some
mitigating measures are built in to deal with natural calamities and other emergencies, it is possible that



4
ISDS
the condition of some of these dlefaulters may worsen in the future.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
The LIL will document the reasons for default and the experience in dealing with such cases which can be
used in the future to deal with the issue of loan default.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement fcor the borrower to address safeguard issues
No action is required at this time as no safeguard issues are triggered.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders in this LIll are the poorest of the poor and the POs that will implement the LIL through
PKSF. A Workshop on this LIL was arranged jointly by PKSF and the Bank for the POs, other
microfinance institutions (MFIs), and the donors. The views expressed by the participants in the
Workshop are being taken into account in designing this LIL. Site visits to review the existing programs
of the POs have been made to discuss the LIL with the poorest borrowers and their views are also being
taken into account.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institulionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank



5
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure:
Date of submission to InfoShol)
Dam Safety Management Plan.                                   Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure:
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Si2ned and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:              Shamsuddin Ahmad                             February 4, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Nilufar Ahmad/Person/World Bank          March 27, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists :2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                   Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinalor: L. Panneer Selvam                          April 12, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Marilou Jane D. Uy                           April 12, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEJOACK       SITE MAP   4    5HOWCASE



