Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24171-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.90 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR THE
FINANCIAL SERVICES FOR THE POOREST
June 1, 2002
Finance and Private Sector
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
Tk.l = US$ 0.0173
US$ I = Tk.57.89
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARCS                 Audit Report Compliance System
BBS                 Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
BIDS                Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
BPIP                Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
FGD                 Focus Group Discussions
FMR                 Financial Management Report
FSP Unit            Financial Services for the Poorest Unit, PKSF
GOB                 Government of Bangladesh
IDA                 Intemational Development Association
IGA                 Income Generating Activities
IGVGD               Income Generation for Vulnerable Groups Development
LIL                 Learning and Innovation Loan
MD                  Managing Director
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI                 Micro Finance Institution
Microfinance I      Poverty Alleviation Microfinance Project
Microfinance II     Second Poverty Alleviation Microfmance Project
MDG                 Millennium Development Goals
MIS                 Management Information System
MTR                 Mid Term Review
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NGO                 Non-Government Organization
PKSF                Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation
PMR                 Project Management Report
PO                  Partner Organization of PKSF
RWG                 Research Working Group at PKSF
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SBD                 Standard Bidding Document
SLA                 Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SOE                 Statement of Expenditures
TA                  Technical Assistance
TOR                 Terms of Reference
VGD                 Vulnerable Groups Development
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager/Director:  Marilou Jane D. Uy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Shamsuddin Ahmad



BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SERVICES FOR THE POOREST
CONTENTS
A. LIL     Justification                                                                                                            Page
1.   What is to be learned (why the piloting)? .....................................................................               2
2.   How    are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?                                2
3.   Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................                        3
B. Structure of the Pilot
1.   How    will the learning take place? .........................................................................                 3
2.   Outcome-level test to be conducted ........................................................................                    3
3.   Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot .........................................................................             4
4.   Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot ..........................................................                 4
5.   Triggers for a Follow-on Operation .........................................................................                   4
6.   Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................                     5
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1.   Project components ........................................................................                                    7
2.   Implementation arrangements ........................................................................                           8
a. Procurement .........................................................................                                       8
b. Financial Management ........................................................................                               8
c. Other ........................................................................                                              9
D. Risks
1.   Social and Environmental Risks .........................................................................                       9
a. Safeguard Policies ..................                     ...............................................................   9
b. Other social risks .......................................................................                                  9
2.   Other Risks .......................................................................                                            9
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions ........................................................................                             11
2.   Other ........................................................................                                                11
F. Readiness for Implementation .......................................................................                                 11
G. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................                .       .      .      .       .       .     ...              11
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary ........................................................................                          12
Annex Ia.      Project Monitoring Baseline and Targets ......................................................................           14
Annex 2. Project Description ...............                                                                                            15
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .24
Annex 4. Financial Management .25
Annex 5. Project Processing Schedule .29
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .30
Annex 7. Documents in the Project File .40
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .41
Annex 9. Country at a Glance .43



Annex 10. Selected POs and Upazilas                                                        45
Annex 11. Budget for Capacity Building and M&E                                             47
MAP(S)



BANGLADESH
Financial Services for the Poorest
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: June 1, 2002                                Team Leader: Shamsuddin Ahmad
Country Manager/Director: Frederick T. Temple     Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P07473 1                              Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
[ ] Loan     Pq Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.00%-0.50%; effective rate 0.00%  Service charge: 0.75%
l C.nc 1ng§P,<I I ri (USSI'n)zN,iS u %0 rt ie I 
BORROWER                                                       1.00           0.00          1.00
IDA                                                            5.00           0.00          5.00
Total:                                                         6.00           0.00          6.00
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
The Borrowers financing of US$1 million will be contributed by PKSF and its Partner Organizations
(POs)
Responsible agency: PALLI KARMA-SAHAYAK FOUNDATION (PKSF)
Address: House # 31/A, Road #8, Dharmondi R/A, Dhaka - 1205. Bangladesh
Contact Person: Dr. Salehuddin Ahmed, Managing Director
Tel: (880-2) 912-6240          Fax: (880-2) 912-6244           Email: pksf@citechco.net
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
S,Ft,'Sffiv t '. NM. t- T*,S ¢i                          7A                             I M  I 6 
Annual      1.00      1.25       2.25      0.50
Cumulative     1.00       2.25      4.50       5.00
Project implementation period: 3 years.
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OC  PAD F   R d 20



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
The objective of the LIL is to find models of sustainable interventions for reducing the number of the
poorest through use of microcredit and other financial services to enhance their incomes and livelihood.
This LIL will attempt to answer questions whether microcredit is useful for the poorest and whether it can
be made more effective by combining with other support services such as safety nets, training, marketing
services and awareness raising.  It will experiment with alternative delivery models to extend
micro-financial services to the poorest, who usually live on safety nets (both public and private), charities,
and/or irregular and low-paid jobs and hardly have the opportunity to enhance their income and escape the
poverty trap.
Various studies have shown that the poorest totalling approximately 12 million individuals or 2.5 million
households in Bangladesh, are not reached by the regular or mainstream micro-credit programs due to
various constraints. These constraints can be grouped broadly under two categories: those relating to the
socioeconomic conditions of the poorest, which have bearings on their capacity and skills to use loans for
financially viable activities; and those relating specifically to regular microcredit, which include lack of
multiple income earning sources, seasonal shortfalls in income, lack of grace periods, mandatory weekly
savings, unwillingness of peer groups to accept a perceived "higher risk" member, specific demographic
factors, and higher incidence of ill-health amongst the poorest. Moreover, the microfinance institutions
(MFIs) acting as intermediaries often shy away from the poorest because of higher delivery costs and risks.
The studies also indicate that if the constraints for exclusion are properly addressed, it may be possible to
extend financial services to this neglected section of the poor, so that they can use microcredit as the ladder
to climb out of poverty. This LIL will pilot various delivery models that address the identified constraints
so that the poorest are motivated to join the microcredit program and the MFIs are encouraged to offer
tailor-made programs that suit the special needs of the poorest.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: 21326-BD Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/12/2000
The CAS's overarching objective is to help Bangladesh realize its aspirations of reducing poverty
substantially within one generation. More specifically, the Government visualizes a 50 percent decline in
the number of people below the poverty line by 2010. This will help to achieve the Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) of halving the number of poor living on less than a dollar a day by 2015. The
Bank Group will support poverty reduction by focusing on the three most powerful lines of attack against
poverty: (a) consolidating gains in human development; (b) implementing an integrated approach to rural
development, including supporting growth in agriculture and nonfarm activities, making opportunities and
assets available to the poor, improving rural infrastructure and strengthening local institutions; and (c)
accelerating and broadening private sector-led growth.  The proposed pilot will contribute to the
overarching goal of poverty reduction by offering opportunities to the target group, i.e., the
poorest-of-the-poor, for skills development, income generation and asset accumulation. It will also assist in
the strengthening of Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF), the apex micro-finance institution in
Bangladesh, and their Partner Organizations (POs) that are interested to work with the poorest.
The pilot will test the hypothesis that the poorest can utilize microcredit to improve their living conditions
and enhance their incomes provided the delivery mechanisms are suitably adapted to meet their needs and
requirements. The pilot will also develop effective approaches and methods for replication in wider areas
of Bangladesh to cover as much of the poorest as is possible.
- 2 -



3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
The regular microcredit programs now operating in many countries of the world have generally not reached
the poorest-of-the-poor. Some MFIs around the world have begun targeting the poorest through specific
microcredit programs. These include the efforts of Small Enterprise Foundation in South Africa, the
Mysore Resettlement and Development Agency in India, and Credit with Education programs of Freedom
from Hunger. The proposed LIL would contribute to the global effort in searching for innovative and
effective ways to help the poorest.
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
The key stakeholders in this LIL are the poorest, the POs that will work with the poor, and PKSF, the apex
institution with the overall responsibility for project coordination and implementation. The learning will
take place through the implementation by the POs of various innovative delivery models for extending
micro-financial services to the poorest. While the broad parameters of the delivery models will be set by
PKSF, the detailed designs and operational approaches will be left to the POs based on their interactions
with the target population. A workshop was arranged jointly by PKSF and the Bank in December 2001,
which was participated by more than 15 POs, 10 non-PO MFIs and several donors, to discuss the various
issues relating to this LIL. The views expressed by the workshop participants, selected groups of poorest,
and experience gathered by POs working with the poorest have been taken into account in arriving at the
broad parameters for micro-financial services to be piloted under the LIL.
The pilot will be managed by PKSF, which is also implementing the second Micro-finance project in
Bangladesh, in association with those POs that have shown an interest in participating in the pilot. PKSF
has carried out a survey of the POs that are either trying out different programs targeted to the poorest or
have expressed an interest in piloting such programs. A separate Financial Services for the Poorest (FSP)
Unit will be created in PKSF to coordinate with the twenty POs and liaise with the outside community.
The Unit, consisting of a Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project Coordinator, a MIS Officer, and two other
staff, will manage the LIL by reviewing the programs submitted by the POs and making the final
recommendation for disbursement of funds. The Unit will also manage the other components, including
capacity building and training, and will have a Research Cell to' undertake studies on some of the issues,
and to set up an effective Monitoring and Evaluation system to track the use and impact of the various
delivery methods piloted by the POs. Procurement and disbursements under the LIL will be handled by the
same PKSF staff currently dealing with these under the Second Poverty Alleviation Microfinance project,
thus reducing the 'transaction costs' on the part of both the Bank and PKSF. Further details of the
implementation arrangement are given in section C2.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
The pilot will test: whether the POs can be sufficiently motivated through financial incentives to modify the
regular microcredit model to suit the needs of the poorest that are currently excluded from microcredit;
whether the poorest are bankable and can utilize a suitably adapted microcredit program profitably; and
whether such a modified microcredit program is attractive to the poorest by helping them in their efforts to
climb out of poverty. A comparison of the income, assets and quality of life of the targeted groups will be
made before and after each cycle of microcredit to track the impact of interventions, and the participating
POs would be monitored with regard to their scale of operations and delivery costs, including supervision
and monitoring expenses.
-3 -



3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
The pilot will be undertaken by the institutions named in parentheses, through the following steps: (a)
identify and select the target poorest and form groups (POs); (b) carry out initiation, motivation and
empowerment programs to explain and solicit participation in the LIL project (POs); (c) begin mandatory
savings program with the mobilized groups (POs); (d) carry out training needs assessment and train
interested group members in specific income generating activities (POs); (e) conduct participatory baseline
study of potential borrowers (PKSF and POs); (f) develop protocol for future evaluation with baseline
(PKSF); (g) extend microcredit to qualified and willing group members (POs); (h) conduct participatory
evaluation after the first cycle of microcredit (PKSF, Bank and POs); (i) initiate changes in the delivery
models based on the first evaluation (PKSF and POs); (1) analyze and report results; and finally (k) repeat
g, h, i, and j, after the second and third cycles of microcredit.
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
1 Economic      1 Technical    1 Social       1 Participation
OI Financial   1 Institutional  O Environmental E Other
Economic: The various microcredit models to reach the poorest under this LIL will be evaluated during
implementation under the M&E system. The economic impact of the microcredit on the lives of the poorest
will be estimated as per the details given in the M&E component in Annex 2.
Technical: The parameters of the various delivery models within the broad guidelines set by PKSF will be
documented and their acceptance or otherwise will be monitored during implementation, with the objective
to adapt the models to better meet the needs of the target groups and to ensure sustainable outcomes.
Social: The productive use of microcredit would enhance the self-confidence of the borrowers and thereby
enable them to participate fully in social life. A host of social changes that are envisaged to accompany the
improvement in incomes and full time engagement in income generating activities, will be monitored during
implementation and their impact studied to determine trends and processes.
Participation: The success of this LIL will depend on a high degree of participation at all levels. These
include active participation of the poorest villagers in forming groups and selecting training courses of their
choice, developing savings habit, accessing microcredit, utilizing the loan productively and not consuming
it, and profitably increasing their investments. The active participation of the POs would be necessary to
mobilize the poorest villagers, empowering and motivating them through proper training and other
incentives. PKSF's active participation will be critical to leading this collective and structured learning
process. Finally, participation at all levels will be necessary in the final evaluation, which would be carried
out by an independent evaluation team.
Institutional: The LIL will rely on the institutional strength of PKSF, POs and the target groups. Attention
has been given for the necessary strengthening of all three groups. The pilot will document the
performance of each group and draw out lessons of experience for replication.
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
A follow-on operation would be justified if:
* more than half of the microcredit borrowers continue to demand microcredit and use it profitably;
* the borrowers maintain a repayment rate of at least 90 percent on a yearly basis; and
* the POs continue to show interest in extending microcredit to the poorest and expand operations to
reach a sustainable scale.
-4 -



6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
The framework for the monitoring and evaluation of the LUL focuses on two broad areas: (i) the 'substance'
of the M&E covering issues related to methodology, scope, frequency and analytical tools; and (ii) the
'institutional set-up' of the M&E dealing with the issue of roles, responsibilities and capacity.
I The 'Substance'
a
PKSF plans to work with twenty Partner Organizations (POs) in imnplementing this project. The basic
principle behind this LIL is to pilot various ways of providing access to micro-credit for the poorest who
have thus far typically not been participants of traditional micro-credit programs. The basic hypothesis that
is being tested in this project is: 'Micro-credit, if delivered appropriately, can improve the welfare of the
poorest in Bangladesh'.
The twenty POs have proposed a range of ways of providing microcredit to the poorest. The types of
questions that need to be addressed are: (i) is the program actually targeting the poorest; (ii) what are the
reasons for the program participants joining the program - which of the program features appeal most; (iii)
what type of social mobilization, training and non-credit interventions were provided and how much did it
cost to provide these interventions; (iv) what is the loan recovery rate; and (v) what are the main benefits
for program participants in both economic and social terms.
The assessment of the different models will be done through continuous program monitoring as well as
formal evaluation methods using a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods. Table 1 provides
an illustrative sequencing of research methods that can be used to answer the above questions.
Table 1: Sequencing monitoring and evaluation activities
Program stage    M&E activity -       M&E activity - quantitative tool         Responsibility
qualitative tools
Targeting of    Documentation of process 'Borrower profile survey': Background  PO/PKSF
new members     focusing on targeting  information on new member (basic individual,
tools and reasons for  household and village characteristics) using
oining                 modified version of existing PO forms.
Six months into  Wealth ranidng exercise  Initiate baseline survey on a sample of 100  PKSF/field
recruitment     to assess targeting   households per PO, 75 member and 25 control research agency
process         success                (i.e.2,000 households in total)
Monthly                                Financial and program informnation monitoring  PO/PKSF
(borrowing, repayment, savings, training
undertaken, safety net participation)
Every six months Focus group discussion                                        PO/PKSF
on client perceptions of
program
Every twelve    Case studies of POs and  Repeat household survey to sub-sample of  PKSF/field
months          selected borrowers    baseline households (e.g. 40 households per  research agency
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ P 0).
After 36 months                        Repeat household survey on baseline sample  PKSF / field
research agency
- 5-



II. Institutional Arraneements for the Monitoring and Evaluation
The institutional 'home' for M&E will be PKSF's 'Research Cell'. Currently the research cell is in a
nascent stage, and a strengthened 'research cell' will work under the newly formed Financial Services for
the Poorest (FSP) Unit, closely supported by a Research Working Group (RWG) composed of outside
experts. These proposed arrangements are described below:
(i)    PKSF Research Cell: Currently this is composed only of one full time Assistant Manager who has
begun some work on the govemance structure of POs. The PKSF research cell will be expanded to include
four staff led by a Manager. Two Deputy Managers, one with experience in quantitative/survey research
tools and another with experience in qualitative methods would be hired. Both these individuals are
expected to have graduate training with around three years of research experience. In addition, another
Assistant Manager with a background on sociology/social science would be hired to assist the quantitative
and qualitative specialists. Finally, PKSF's research cell would also hire part time data collectors as and
when required (see table 1). Staff from PKSF's research cell will supervise the data collection both for the
quantitative and qualitative research. During the three years of the LIL, the Research Cell will focus on
M&E work of the 20 POs working with the poorest. Capacity building for the research cell has been
included in the budget.
(ii)   Link between PKSF's Research Cell and FSP Unit: The FSP Unit will be engaged in coordinating
the programs for the poorest within PKSF and acting as the main liaison with the outside community. The
staff of the FSP Unit and the Research Cell will work closely in order to ensure that the M&E findings are
operationalized.
(iii)  Link between PKSF's Research Cell and Research Working Group (RWG): A Research Working
Group (RWG) will be formed to provide guidance to PKSF's research cell. The functions of the RWG
would be to: (a) advise on conceptual/methodological issues on M&E; (b) develop quantitative and
qualitative research tools jointly with PKSF's research cell; (c) act as resource persons during training of
field enumerators; (d) advise on appropriate data compilation and entxy methods; (e) advise on data
analysis techniques; (f) provide comments on report drafts; and (g) provide guidance to PKSF in
appropriate dissemination of results. These functions can be split into discrete tasks and provision has
been made in the M&E budget for this essential advisory role. The suggested composition of the RWG are:
three management-level PKSF staff; three academics from BIDS; one senior researcher from BRAC's
Research and Evaluation Division; and two persons from other institutions.
(iv)   Link between PKSF's Research Cell and POs: As Table I indicates, there are certain M&E
functions where close involvement of the POs is essential (e.g. for the suggested monthly financial and
program monitoring). This requires an enhancement of the POs' capacity for which at least one staff
member from each PO will benefit from training in research methods. Each PO will also have one MIS
Officer in their payroll who, in addition to his/her responsibilities for financial monitoring, will work
closely with PKSF's research staff.
(v)    Link between PKSF's Research Cell and World Bank As part of the collective learning, the Bank
supervision missions will evaluate how the work is being conducted and whether the proposed institutional
arrangements are in fact working out. PKSF will share with the Bank the primary data collected under the
project for additional independent analysis.
-6-



C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
The proposed project would include the following components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and
Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
I. Microcredit Component. This component will finance the revolving fund which will be used by the POs
to extend microcredit to the poorest. Participating POs will be free to design the delivery of financial
services to the target group within the broad parameters set by PKSF. These parameters will give the
range for setting interest rates to borrowers, savings requirements, maturity of loans, repayment period and
frequency, purpose of the loan, linkage with other safety nets, group meetings, and IGA training. The
structured flexibility will allow the POs to innovate delivery models that suit the needs and characteristics
of the target groups.
II. Capacity Building Component. This component comprises three subcomponents for capacity building
of PKSF, the participating POs and the targeted borrowers respectively.
(a)  The PKSF subcomponent will focus on setting up a Financial Services for the Poorest Unit
which will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project. The incremental
cost of setting up and operating this Unit and the Research Cell, responsible for the M&E
component, will be supported under the LIL on a declining proportion basis. The staff in
these two units will receive training on MIS for the M&E, supervision and research skills.
(b)  The POs subcomponent will finance the incremental costs of the POs for delivering the
programs to the target groups, and their capacity building needs, on a declining proportion
basis. The capacity building needs will be met mainly through staff training focusing on
strengthening of reporting and MIS, account keeping, and training of beneficiaries.
(c)  The borrowers subcomponent will focus on providing the target groups with acquisition of
specific skills for engagement in sustainable income generating activities. Training would
cover embroidery/needle work/sewing, tailoring, candle making, bee rearing, umbrella
making, handicrafts, vegetable cultivation and seed production, betel leaf production,
poultry and livestock rearing, shoe repairing and polishing, carpentry, pottery and bangle
making, silver ornaments making, and other trades. Upon completion of training, target
group members will have the option to either take microcredit for self-employment, or
apply for wage labor in microenterprises.
m. Disaster Fund for the Poorest. A Disaster Fund will be created by PKSF by deducting a small
percentage of disbursements to POs and depositing the said amounts in a separate account. The Fund will
be used to compensate borrowers for losses caused by natural disasters and other events beyond their
control.
IV. Monitoring and Evaluation Component. A well-designed M & E system to monitor the chosen
indicators and to collect and analyze data to test the stated hypothesis, will be set up in the Research Cell of
PKSF. Monitoring will be done at three levels: the method of delivery of microcredit to the beneficiaries
and other financial services; the demand for the financial services and the increase in income due to its
effective use and other benefits accrued under the project; and a cost-benefit analysis to determine the
extent to which project objectives have been achieved. Details are given in Section B6.
- 7 -



tffi@~~~~~-I-
I. Microcredit                   Other Finance         3.33       55.5      3.00      60.0
II. Capacity Building of:        System Reform &                   0.0                 0.0
Capacity Building
(i) Borrowers                                     0.95      15.8      0.73       14.6
(ii) POs                                          1.14      19.0      0.77       15.4
(iii)PKSF                                         0.14       2.3      0.10        2.0
Im. Disaster Fund for the Poorest  Other Social        0.31        5.2      0.31       6.2
Protection
IV. Monitoring & Evaluation      Institutional         0.13        2.2      0.09       1.8
Development
Total Project Costs                    6.00     100.0      5.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                     6.00     100.0       5.00     100.0
2. Implementation Arrangements
PKSF would have the overall management responsibility for coordination and implementation of the LIL.
Under a Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement (SLGA), GOB would (a) onlend US$3.00 million
equivalent from the Credit proceeds to PKSF at an interest rate of 1.25 percent p.a. for the microcredit
component; and (b) make available to PKSF the balance amount of the Credit as grant for the capacity
building and M&E components. PKSF will on-lend to the selected POs under sub-project agreements, and
the POs in turn will make the funds available to their microcredit borrowers.
a. Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out by the Bank appraisal mission. Since PKSF has
successfully implemented the IDA-funded Microcredit I project and is currently implementing the
IDA-funded Microcredit II project, the staff dealing with procurement have acquired reasonable knowledge
and experience with respect to IDA's procurement guidelines. It was agreed that all procurement under this
LII will be carried out by PKSF's staff.
b. Financial Management
PKSF is a non profit organization governed under section 28 of the Companies Act, 1994. It maintains a
computerized accounting system using double entry book keeping principles and accrual basis of
accounting, and has qualified accountants to operate and maintain a sound financial management system.
The Accounting Manual of PKSF, Accounting and Fund Management Manual for POs, Loan Operations
and Administration Manual and policy guidelines for selection of POs, provide a comprehensive and well
integrated financial management framework which will be adequate to meet Bank's financial management
requirements during implementation of the proposed LIL.
For the proposed LIL, PKSF will open a Special Account denominated in US Dollars, under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. Transaction based disbursement procedures will be followed for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit. PKSF will not need counterpart funds from the government as it will provide
funds from its own sources.
PKSF has experience in preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) and will submit a set of agreed
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the project within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The
- 8 -



annual financial statements for the project would be audited by a private audit firm and would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit report will include separate
opinions on Project Financial Statements, Special Account and SOE. Details on financial management
arrangements, including disbursement, operation of Special Account, and audits are given in Annex 4.
PKSF has stringent criteria in selecting its POs and already has a separate cell to monitor POs'
performance and other indicators and to take corrective actions. The continuous audit of POs by PKSF's
internal audit cell adds additional oversight on proper utilization of funds provided to POs. In addition,
PKSF's plan to undertake performance audit of all participating POs will contribute to mitigating any
residual risk during project implementation.
c. Other
Sustainability of the LIL: It is well recognized that it takes time for microcredit programs to reach
sustainability. Borrowers typically require several cycles of microcredit to graduate into microenterprises,
and the POs take several years to reach the scale of operations needed to achieve sustainability. In this
LIL, the target population is the poorest that have very little or no assets to start with and build upon. It is
clearly understood by all stakeholders that the microcredit programs to be piloted under the LIL will not be
able to achieve sustainability during the project period, but would serve as path-finders of sustainable
interventions to help the poorest.
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
The income generating activities that will be supported under this LIL, as indicated above, are not expected
to have any adverse impact on the environment or involve resettlement. Moreover, the size and scope of the
activities would be small enough for the producers to mitigate any adverse impact themselves. No adverse
impact on indigenous peoples is expected as they are not present in the pilot areas chosen for the LIL.
Therefore, the social and environmental risks under this LIL are minimal.
a. Safeguard Policies
No safeguard policies are triggered as a result of the LEL.
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
The social risks of undertaking the LEL are low, as the activities and borrowers are nonpolitical. With
PKSF and POs leading the project implementation, project benefits are not subject to easy capture by
influential groups. The potential positive social outcomes are high, and could enhance the public's
appreciation of the Bank's effort on poverty reduction.
2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measuro
From Outputs to Objective
PKSF's commitment and ownership to         N         PKSF's commitment to the LWL will be
implement the LIL may wane, and it may               confirmed by the creation of a new Unit, called
suffer from outside influence.                       the "Financial Services for the Poorest" Unit, to
deal with the POs participating in the LIL and to
work with the poorest. PKSF's Board members
have a strong track record of not bowing to
-9-



outside influence and pressure.
POs may not respond to incentives for       M         The pilot will begin with the 20 POs that have
extending financial services to the poorest.          shown a strong interest in participating in the
LIL. Further incentives such as financing the
start-up costs and capacity building needs of the
POs are built in the LIL to motivate the POs and
ensure their commitment to this project.
Participating POs may fail to maintain      M         PKSF will institute the same high standards of
eligibility with PKSF.                                supervision and monitoring of the POs as is
done for mainstream microcredit. This includes
an "early warning system" that alerts it to
potential problems that may cause a PO to loose
its eligibility. Corrective actions will be
initiated as soon as potential problems are
detected.
The targeted poorest may not continue to    M         The innovative delivery mechanisms for
participate in the LIL.                               micro-financial services will not only meet the
financial needs of the poorest but also their
social and training needs. This holistic
approach will ensure that the beneficiaries
continue to enjoy the benefits of the program till
they graduate.
From Components to Outputs
Participating POs may not maintain the       S        POs will intensively supervise and monitor the
stipulated repayment rate of over 90                  poor borrowers to ensure that the microcredit is
percent with PKSF.                                    used effectively and profitably so that fill
repayment is assured during nornal times.
This, in turn, will enable the POs to maintain the
required repayment rate with PKSF. However,
since the two repayments are not linked
back-to-back, the POs have sufficient leeway to
maintain the required repaymnent rate. During a
disaster or emergency, the POs will be able to
access the proposed Disaster Fund to help the
affected borrowers maintain their repayments.
PKSF may not maintain quick                 N         PKSF will continue to classify the participating
disbursement against PO's requests thus               POs according to the classification system in
affecting the POs operations adversely.               use to determine the level of supervision
required to release disbursements. Moreover,
the staff in the new FSP Unit will be trained to
ensure timely processing of disbursement
requests.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 1 0 -



E. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Signing of the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement (SLGA) between GOB and PKSF and legal
opinion on the SLGA.
*   Legal Opinion on the DCA and PA.
*   Adoption by PKSF of the Disaster Fund Operational Manual, in form and substance acceptable
to the Association.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
F. Readiness for Implementation
l 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
E 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
F] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The LIL is expected to become Effective by July 31, 2002.
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
ad                 Marilou Jane D.4U                 Frederick T. Temple
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 1 1 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Alleviate poverty in       Reduced numbers of poor   Household Expenditure      Continued commitment of the
Bangladesh by making      living on less than one dollar Survey, Labor Force Survey,  Bangladesh Government
opportunities and assets   a day.                    and other reports published by towards the implementation of
available to the poor.                                                          the Millennium Development
Goals.
Increased income, assets, and Monitoring and Evaluation  Continued growth in GDP at
savings, and enhanced quality reports generated under this  the average rate for the last
of life of the beneficiaries.  LIL.                   five years.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Extend the innovative      Fall in the headcount index
financial services piloted  for those living on less than
successfuily under the LI, to one dollar a day.
other areas in Bangladesh so
that a greater numnber of
poorest can benefit from the
mcoro-financial services.
Increased number of POs
ava_able tthporteMlenworking with the poorest.
ProJect Development        Outcome I Impact           ProJect reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
ObJective:                 Indlcators:
To extend financial services,  Income of at least 50 percent  Monitoring and Evaluation  Opportunities exist for
through innovative delivery  of those that are earning less  (M&E) reports generated  engaging in income
mechanisms to a section of  than 50c a day raised to more  under this LIL.      generating activities.
the poorest to improve their  than 50c (1ko30) a day.
socio-economic status.
To train poorest borrowers for Incomes of at least 50 percent IDAds half-yearly supervision The poorest are willing to
specific wage employment   of those earning less than a  mission reports.       engage in income generating
skills.                    dollar/day raised to more than                       activities using microcredit.
a dollar/day (Tk.60/day).
Innovative delivery        POs' annual reports.       The poorest successfully
mechanisms designed by POs                            mobilized by POs for
to meet the financial needs of                        extension of financial
the poorest.                                         services.
POs incentivized to extend                            The innovative delivery
micro-financial services to the                       mechanisms for extending
poorest.                                             financial services to the
poorest can be replicated in
other areas of Bangladesh.
Household vulnerability
reduced by:
-     25 percent increase in total
household assets.
-        50 percent reduction in
- 12 -



chronically food insecure
households.
- 50 percent upgradation of
"jhupri" (straw/leaves shelter)
dwellers to semi-durable
housing structures.
Output from each          Output Indicators:       Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Microcredit extended to the  At least 30,000 new poor  PKSF's Quarterly      PKSF continues to implement
poorest and evaluated for  borrowers given microcredit  Implementation Reports.  the LIL with commitment and
effectiveness.            under innovative terms and                         ownership, and without
conditions.                                        outside influence.
Department for the poorest set At least 15 POs motivated and M & E reports generated  POs respond to incentives for
up and functionaing       strengthened to design and  under this LIL.        extending financial services to
effectively at PKSF.      implement innovative delivery                      the poorest.
mechanisms for extending
financial services to the
poorest.
POs capacity strengthened to  At least 20,000 of the poorest IDA's half-yearly supervision  Participating POs continue to
experiment with innovative  borrowers provided training  mission reports.    maintain eligibility with
delivery mechanisms to    on income generating                               PKSF.
extend financial services to  activities.
the poorest.
Poorest borrowers trained on  At least 5,000 poorest  POs' annual reports.   The targeted poorest continue
income generating activities  households trained in                          to participate in the LIL.
to use microcredit effectively. self-employment activities.
Staff from PKSF and POs   At least 2,000 poorest
trained in various areas  households trained in wage
including monitoring and  employment activities.
evaluation.
Health and recreational
facilites provided to at least
half of the poorest
participating in this LIL.
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
Microcredit for the Poorest  US$3.00 million equivalent.  PKSF's Quarterly   Participating POs maintain a
implementation report;   repayment rate of over 90
percent with PKSF.
Capacity Building support to  US$1.60 million equivalent.  Audit reports (annual);  PKSF maintains quick
PKSF, POs and borrowers.                                                     disbursement against PO's
requests.
Disaster Fund for the Poorest US$0.31 million equivalent  Disbursement reports.
Monitoring and Evaluation,  US$0.09 million equivalent.
including baseline surveys
and impact assessment to
provide feedback on
implementation and lessons
learned.
-13 -



Annex la. Project Monitoring Baseline and Targets
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
Key Performance Indicators                              Date 1         Mid-term           Date 2      End of Project
.[mmnddly]ij                         ermdd/yy]
QutomIIiiactIndicator,                Biseline          'Tar etf         *agTa     r        argt           Target
Income of at least 50 percent of those 08/30/2002   08/30/2003       08/30/2004       08/30/2005      12/31/2005
that are earming less than 50c a day
raised to more than 50c (Tk.30) a
day.
Incomes of at least 50 percent of
those earming less than a dollar/day
raised to more than a dollar/day
(Tk.60/day).
Innovative delivery mechanisms
designed by POs to meet the'
financial needs of the poorest.
POs incentivized to extend
micro-financial services to the
poorest.
Household vulnerability reduced by:
- 25 percent increase in total
household assets. - 50 percent
reduction in chronically food
insecure households. - 50 percent
upgradation of "jhupri" (strawA/eaves
shelter) dwellers to semi-durable
housing structures.
butpuit,bdicators            j         aseline'          Target!-        Tar,gqt          Target    V-     Target;.~
At least 30,000 new poor borrowers 08/30/2002       08/30/2003       08/30/2004       08/30/2005       12/31/2005
given microcredit under innovative
terms and conditions.
At least 15 POs motivated and
strengthened to design and
implement innovative delivery
mechanisms for extending financial
services to the poorest.
At least 20,000 of the poorest
borrowers provided training on
income generating activities.
At least 5,000 poorest households
trained in self-employment activities.
At least 2,000 poorest households
trained in wage employment
activities.
Health and recreational facilites
provided to at least half of the
poorest participating in this LIL.
-14-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.33 million
Microcredit Component. The hypothesis that this LIL will test is that an appropriately designed
microcredit program can improve the welfare of the poorest in Bangladesh. The pilot will also
determine the most effective delivery model which can then be adopted for replication in the
whole of Bangladesh to cover as much of the poorest as possible. Therefore, a main component
of the LIL is the revolving fund for microcredit. This fund will be lent by PKSF to selected POs
for onlending to new groups of poorest. Based on the existing work with the poorest and the
interest expressed by other POs, PKSF has selected twenty POs to participate in this pilot. A list
of these POs with brief profiles, and the Upazilas selected by them for the pilot is shown in Annex
10. Based on a discussion with these POs and PKSF, it was agreed that each PO would mobilize
about one thousand borrowers every year for a total of three thousand borrowers during the three
years of the Project. The LIL would then cover 60,000 borrowers with average loan sizes of
Tkl,500, Tk.2,500 and Tk.4,000 during the three years of the project. Since a part of the fund
requirement would be met from repayments, the total demand for funds is estimated to be around
US$3 million (details in Annex 10), which was agreed to be the size of the microcredit
component. It was further agreed that GOB would on-lend the US$3 million of this component
to PKSF at an interest rate of 1.25 percent per annum to cover IDA's service charge of 0.75
percent on the entire Credit. In turn, PKSF would lend the microcredit funds to the selected POs
at 4.5 percent per annum, the rate that they charge to small and medium POs for regular
microcredit. This intermediate rate has been kept the same at the request of PKSF to avoid a
multiplicity of rates from PKSF to POs. The POs would also charge the same final rates to their
borrowers as they do under their regular microcredit program. A unified final rate was agreed
upon at the insistence of the POs who wanted to avoid a dual rate in order to prevent distortions,
such as, attempts to disguise oneself as an poorest and campaign by regular microcredit groups to
reduce their rates as well.
One of the objectives of this pilot is to experiment with different delivery models to
identify those that suit the credit needs of the poorest. Therefore, sufficient flexibility will be built
in to the delivery model for financial services adopted by PKSF to allow the POs to design
suitable models for extending microcredit to target groups. It was agreed that the broad
parameters of the model adopted by PKSF, within which the POs would be free to design their
own models, would be as follows:
*     Loan Size: One of the main hurdles that the poorest face in trying to enter a regular
microcredit program is the relatively high loan sizes beginning with Tk.5,000. Most group
members and POs are unwilling to lend this amount to an extremely poor borrower because of the
perceived higher risk of default. Moreover, many poorest-of-the-poor borrowers are afraid to
start off with a loan of Tk.5,000 without the knowledge, skill and self-confidence necessary to
invest that fund properly to ensure that the returns from the investment service the weekly
repayments. Under this LIL, loan sizes would be flexible depending on the income generating
activity (IGA) chosen by the borrower and would range from Tk.500 to Tk.5,000. It is expected
that the first loan to a borrower would range from Tk.500 to Tk.2,500, while the third loan would
- 15-



be up to Tk.5,000. Timely repayment of the third loan would qualify the borrower to graduate to
the regular microcredit program of the POs.
Savings: Another big hurdle for the poorest is to save at least Tk. 10 per week
mandatorily, even before getting a loan, and not being able to withdraw that saving during the
currency of a loan. To ease this burden, the savings amount would be made flexible under this
LIL and group members would be able to save as little as Tk. 1 per week. However, the habit of
saving would be encouraged to develop a discipline which would be helpful to the poorest in their
life. The other flexibility that would be allowed is the facility to withdraw the savings at any time
thus ensuring open access to savings by the poorest.
*     Loan Amortization: Unlike the regular microcredit program, this LIL will experiment
with flexible repayment schedules to meet the needs of the poorest. This program would allow
the POs to try out different repayment schemes. Some POs may vary the grace period, others
would vary the installments from weekly to monthly to three-monthly or even six-monthly
repayments for seasonal loans, while a few may try balloon repayments for loans that are
liquidated by selling the asset.
*     Repayment Rate: A critical factor that inhibits POs from including the poorest in their
regular microcredit programs is the failure of the poorest borrowers to maintain the on-time
repayment rate throughout the year. The slippages, often due to reasons beyond the control of
the poor borrowers, affect the POs' collection ratio on current dues resulting in an interruption in
the flow of funds from PKSF when that ratio goes below the mandatory 92 percent. Because of
the seasonality of work and income of the poorest, they are often unable to maintain their
installment payments during the lean season (April to May, and September to October).
However, the overdue created during the lean season are usually cleared off from the relatively
higher earnings during the rest of the year. To accommodate the seasonal nature of work and
income of the poorest, the POs would continue to receive PKSF funds under this LIL provided
they maintain a cumulative loan collection ratio, at the end of December every year, of over 90
percent.
*     Attendance at Group Meetings: Most of the poorest fall out of the regular microcredit
program when they cannot maintain 100 percent attendance in group meetings due to their work
schedule. While group meetings are important to instill discipline, and create awareness of the
POs products and processes, and the need to invest loan funds in appropriate IGAs, the flexibility
in mandatory attendance may often determine the difference between joining the program or
staying out of it. Therefore, the POs would be given the flexibility to determine the need for
attendance by individual group members and to devise altemative ways of reaching those
members whose work schedule or IGA prevents them from joining such meetings on a regular
basis.
*     Purpose of the Loan: The POs would be free to offer microcredit to their borrowers for
any legal income eaming activity. Thus, most of the income generating activities or IGAs, such
as, embroidery/needle work/sewing, tailoring, candle and soap making, bee rearing, umbrella
making, handicrafts, vegetable cultivation and seed production, betel leaf production, poultry and
livestock rearing, shoe repairing and polishing, carpentry, pottery and bangle making, silver
omnaments making, tea vending, bamboo products, fast food, rickshaw van, noodle and
'chanachur' making, rice husking and trading, puffed rice, and banana trade, would be eligible for
microcredit under this LIL. The POs would ensure that the potential borrower has the necessary
skill for the IGA chosen by him/her. If such skill is absent, a basic training on the selected IGA
- 16 -



would be provided to the potential borrower prior to disbursement of the loan.
*     IGA Training: The ability of the poorest to pay the regular installments is directly linked
to the borrowers' ability to perform the selected IGA effectively. This ability can be ensured by
imparting the skill required for the chosen IGA to generate the returns that will assure the
repayment of the loan. All POs would, therefore, either ensure that the borrower has the skill for
the chosen IGA or arrange basic training on the selected IGAs prior to the disbursement of the
loan. The costs of building this capacity within the poorest would be partly borne under this LIL
to ensure the success of the experiment.
*     Interest rates: As explained earlier, the final borrowers would be charged the same
interest rate as charged to regular microcredit borrowers so as to avoid any distortions in the
market.
Project Component 2 - US$2.23 million
Capacity Building Component: A critical component of this LIL is the capacity building
assistance to PKSF, its PO's, and the extremely poor borrowers, to ensure successful
implementation. The IDA allocation for this component together with that for Component 3 will
be provided by the Govermuent to PKSF as a grant. The budget for this component, as discussed
and agreed with PKSF, is composed of the following sub-components:
PKSF's Capacitv Building - (US$0.14 million): PKSF will create a Financial
Services for the Poorest (FSP) Unit to implement this LIL. The Unit will be engaged in
coordinating the programs for the poorest within PKSF and acting as the main liaison with the
outside community. The Unit will be staffed by: (i) a full time Project Coordinator; (ii) a full time
Officer for training who will coordinate the training needs for the POs and the borrowers, as well
as act as a Deputy Project Coordinator; (iii) an MIS officer; (iv) an Office Assistant; and (v) a
driver. The cost of the above staff will be borne under this LIL on a sliding scale. Thus, in the
first year, 80 percent of the total cost will be reimbursed under the LIL, which will reduce to 70
percent in the second year and 60 percent in the final year. Moreover, 10 percent of the cost of
these staff (responsible for supervising these POs as part of the regular on-going monitoring of the
selected POs' credit program) is also included in the budget. A detailed cost estimate of the IDA
portion is shown in Annex I 1.
POs' Capacitv Building - (US$1.14 million): On average, each PO will attempt
to target 1,000 households in the first year, 2,000 in the second and 3,000 in the third year. In
the regular micro-credit program the staff to borrower ratio is around 1:250. In view of more
intense mobilization and supervision work, this ratio will have to be lower, around 1:200, for this
LIL. Following discussions with PKSF, it was agreed that this LIL will support, on a sliding
scale, five field organizers in the first year, ten in the second and fifteen in the third, along with
one field supervisor cum trainer and an accountant for each PO. Thus, in the first year, 80
percent of the total cost will be reimbursed under the LIL, which will reduce to 70 percent in the
second year and 60 percent in the final year, so as to guide the POs toward self-sufficiency and
sustainability. Each PO will also have one MIS officer in their payroll, who, in addition to his/her
responsibilities for financial monitoring, will work closely with PKSF Research staff particularly in
the six monthly program evaluation using qualitative methods (see monitoring and evaluation
section).
- 17 -



The PO staff engaged in this LIL will also require training. This will vary in terms
of their roles but will include training in identifying/targeting the poorest, on flexible financial
services that suit the poorest, and on specific income-generating activities and skills that are
relevant to the target group. The MIS Officer who will also contribute to the evaluation of the
success of the program along with PKSF research staff will also need some training in research,
particularly on participatory methods. To meet the logistical needs for effective supervision, each
PO would also be provided with a motorcycle or motorized boat, and a bicycle for each field
organizer. Details of the cost estimates for IDA financing are shown in Annex 11.
Poorest Borrowers' Capacitv Building - (US$0.95 million): A training needs
assessment for the members will be conducted to assess the demand for different types of capacity
building initiatives. The training will be essentially of three types, the detailed cost estimates of
which are shown in Annex 11 for IDA financing:
*      'General orientation training' of all potential borrowers conducted at the PO level in the
field which will include general awareness-building and an explanation of the services offered by
the PO. This is envisaged for all members and would take at most one day.
*      'Income-generaiing trainingfor self-employment': this involves training of a specific
number of borrowers, based on the needs assessment, in specific income generating skills
designed to improve the return on the micro-credit investment. This is currently envisaged for
around 50% of the borrowers with the assumption that around half may want to engage in
activities for which they already have the skills (e.g. small trading).
*      'Income-generating training for wage-employment': this involves training of those
members that are unwilling to take microcredit. This training will be linked to the
'micro-enterprise loans' provided by the POs to generate small businesses. These businesses (e.g.
furniture making) often need skilled labor and the poorest, if properly trained, could be this labor
source.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.31 million
Disaster Fund for the Poorest. A Disaster Fund will be created by PKSF by retaining an amount
up to Tk.900,000 for each PO to compensate borrowers for losses sustained due to natural
disasters and other industry and sector-wide losses. The Disaster Fund will be kept separately in
an interest bearing account by PKSF and will only be used for compensating borrowers for losses
as described in the Disaster Fund for the Poorest Operational Manual (DFPOM) prepared by
PKSF for this Fund.
Project Component 4 - US$0.13 million
Monitoring and Evaluation Component. The IDA allocation for this component will be provided by
the Government to PKSF as a grant. The cost estimates for IDA financing are shown in Annex 11. The
framework for the monitoring and evaluation of the LIL focuses on two broad areas: (i) the 'substance' of
the M&E covering issues related to methodology, scope, frequency and analytical tools; and (ii) the
'institutional set-up' of the M&E dealing with the issue of roles, responsibilities and capacity.
-18 -



I The 'Substance'
PKSF plans to work with twenty Partner Organizations (POs) in implementing this project. The basic
principle behind this LIL is to pilot various ways of providing access to micro-credit for the poorest who
have thus far typically not been participants of traditional micro-credit programs. The basic hypothesis that
is being tested in this project is: 'Micro-credit, if delivered appropriately, can improve the welfare of the
poorest in Bangladesh'.
The twenty POs who will be part of the project from its start have proposed a range of ways of providing
microcredit to the poorest. This ranges from providing greater flexibility in micro-finance delivery to
providing micro-credit with safet nets, such as, food aid. The types of questions that need to be addressed
to test this hypothesis are: (i) is the program actually targeting the poorest; (ii) what are the reasons for the
program participants joining the program - which of the program features appeal most; (iii) what type of
social mobilization, training and non-credit interventions were provided and how much did it cost to
provide these interventions; (iv) what is the loan recovery rate; and (v) what are the main benefits for
program participants in both economic and social terms.
The assessment of the different models will be done through continuous program monitoring as well as
formal evaluation methods using a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods. Table 1 provides
an illustrative sequencing of research methods that can be used to answer the above questions.
Table 1: Sequencing monitoring and evaluation activities
Program stage    M&E activity -      M&E activity - quantitative tool  Responsibility
qualitative tools
Targeting of    Documentation of     'Borrower profile survey'.     PO/PKSF
new members     process focusing on  Background information on new
targeting tools and  member (basic individual,
reasons for joining  household and village
characteristics) using modified
version of existing PO forms.
Six months into  Wealth ranking      Initiate baseline survey on a  PKSF/field
recruitment     exercise to assess   sample of 100 households per PO,  research agency
process         targeting success    75 member and 25 control
(i.e.2,000 households in total)
Monthly                              Financial and program information  PO/PKSF
monitoring (borrowing, repayment,
savings, training undertaken,
safety net participation)
Every six months Focus group discussion                              PO/PKSF
on client perceptions of
program
Every twelve    Case studies of POs  Repeat household survey to      PKSF/field
months          and selected borrowers sub-sample of baseline households  research agency
(e.g. 40 households per PO).
After 36 months                      Repeat household survey on     PKSF / field
baseline sample                 research agency
- 19 -



Issues on Quantitative Methods
There are a number of basic issues that will be addressed during the design of the surveys suggested in
table 1:
*      Control groups: It is suggested that data on non-program participants, as 'control households', be
collected. One of the main uses of this data will be to examine the factors that lead a household not to join
a program. At this stage it is proposed that 75 program households and 25 control households be surveyed
for each PO. However it ought to be noted that this collection of data on control groups is not absolutely
essential as: (i) the panel component of this research design by definition has the baseline survey as a
'control' group and the 'before-after' comparison makes the need for a separate control group inessential;
(ii) even for the baseline survey report, the stratification by membership length discussed above, will enable
comparisons between 'older' members and new entrants, thereby acting as a basis of comparison; (iii) the
quality of targeting by the PO's can also be measured by assessing the proportion of participants in the
survey who are part of the poorest either by using an poorest poverty line (e.g. below 1,600 calories per
person per day) or other characteristics of this group (e.g. housing status, main occupation etc); and (iv)
PKSF's quantitative specialist may decide to use the fieldwork budget to increase the number of program
households instead.
*      Sample size: Around 100 households (75 program and 25 control) from each PO's pilot area will
be selected for the baseline and the final survey. In addition, a sub-sample of 40 program households (with
no control households) will be surveyed every 12 months (see table 1).
*      Sample stratification: There are a number of ways that the sample can be stratified: (i) by village
e.g. first choose four program villages of varying socioeconomic levels and then select survey households;
and/or (ii) stratify program households by loan size level or by type of training received.
*      Cost-effectiveness analysis: The analysis will be made considerably 'richer' with even a very basic
cost-effectiveness analysis. If the multivariate analysis succeeds in being able to attribute 'impacts' to
specific interventions, then the MFI records would be used to assess the costs of these specific
interventions. For instance, after controlling for a range of exogenous characteristics, if one finds that a
household who has borrowed and received training is 50% better-off (e.g. household expenditure) than a
household who has borrowed the same amount but not been to training courses, it is tempting to advocate
the merits of training. However, if providing the 'credit and training' package costs 100% more than the
'credit-only' package then there are doubts as to whether the best way of spending limited resources is by
investing in a training package. This basic example illustrates the various uses of integrating the issue of
program costs into impact assessment work.
Issues on Qualitative Methods
A range of qualitative analysis would be used in the monitoring and evaluation of this project. Such
analysis would be based on research techniques, ranging from focus group discussions, case studies, wealth
ranking exercises and other participatory rural appraisal methods, which have been used extensively in the
assessment of regular micro-credit programs. The advantages of these techniques are that they can be
carried out relatively quickly and cost-effectively, they are able to assess collective views and they provide
a more nuanced view compared to survey results.
Focus Group Discussions (FGD)
FGD's will be held with groups of sampled households in order to assess opinions regarding the 'impact' of
- 20 -



the microcredit on the lives of borrowers and the wider community. FGD's are also very useful for
'program improvement' purposes as a group of members could be urged to focus on a particular issue e.g.
frequency of group meetings, usefulness of trauining etc. Hence, FGD's would be conducted every six
months in all PO's and their findings documented (see table 1).
Case studies
A small sample of borrowers would be chosen to provide details of the household's socioeconomic
background, motivation to join the MFI, different ways the loan was utilized, whether other sources of
finance were needed etc. These interviews would be used to assess 'program' quality as well as impact.
Case studies of households that did not join the MFI, though they were 'eligible', would also reveal the
kinds of barriers to entry that exist and may provide valuable feedback to the MFIs for altering their
program, if needed.
Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
This section describes a range of indicators that could potentially be used for monitoring and evaluation
purposes. It recommends the method of collection of this information and also argues the case for and
against the use of certain variables in practice.
Expenditure/consumption: Commonly used as a proxy for household income, expenditure data is
collected at the household level and includes expenditure on market goods, the imputed value of
consumption of home produced goods and the imputed value of gifts/transfers of particular goods.
A key issue is finding appropriate reference periods for the different items (Scott and Amenguebe 1991) as
the accuracy of expenditure information is correlated with recall periods. For instance, common food items
such as rice can be asked with a one day recall, clothing could have a quarterly recall period and
expenditure on education could be asked with a biannual reference period. Expenditure data is used to set
poverty lines and can be used to compare the poverty profile of PO's members / borrowers with their
comparison' groups. Poverty comparisons are often made using total consumption per head as the welfare
measure but a more accurate depiction of differences between households takes place when the age/sex
composition of the household is taken into account. There is a general consensus in the literature that total
consumption deflated by the number of 'adult equivalents' is a better representation of household welfare
than a 'per head' measure. Equivalence scales have been constructed in order to account for the different
needs of households which do not differ in size but vary in terms of their demographic composition. In
other words, a six-person household composed of five male adults and one baby has very different
nutritional requirements compared to say a six-person household with two female adults, three children and
one baby (Deaton et al 1980).
Recommendation: Expenditure data should to be collected in all the surveys except the first borrower
information form collected by the PO.
Income: As the most basic measure of a household's socioeconomic status, all sources of income need to be
captured. Thus, in a typical rural setting income from farming (wage labor and value of crops), income
from off-farm activities, income from public transfers and remittances should be included. However,
measuring income precisely is difficult due to the irregularity of income flows and the multitude of income
sources (Lipton and Ravallion 1995).
Recommendation: It is not recommended that data on actual income be collected due to the problems cited
above. However information on main income sources ought to be recorded at both the baseline and
follow-up stages.
Assets: In order to obtain a more complete understanding of household wealth, the information on
- 21 -



income/expenditure needs to be complemented with data on household assets. Savings held as cash and
in-kind need to be accounted for; this would also include money lent out which is not currently in the
household's 'hands'. The total amount of land owned as well as the total land cultivated (which includes
land which is leased from another owner and also sharecropped land) are both important indicators of
household wealth. Information on non-land assets is also essential and can be collected by probing into the
current market value of 'houschold durables' (furniture, radio, cooking utensils etc), 'productive assets'
(tools, fishing net, power tiller, grocery shop), animals (livestock, poultry etc), homestead and waterbody
owned by the household. -
Recommendation: Information on land should be collected using both the initial borrower profile survey
and the more comprehensive larger surveys. Data on non-land assets, on the other hand, ought to be
collected only using the larger surveys.
Distress sale of assets: One of the households' crisis-coping mechanisms could be to dispose off its assets
in order to meet an emergency need. A retrospective question as to whether this has occurred over the past
six months to one year is a relatively simple, yet important, question to ask.
Recommendation: This data should be included in all surveys. Participatory research methods such as
wealth ranking exercises and case studies can be used as well.
Housing condition: This is considered a good indicator of socioeconomic status. The material of the roof
and walls is generally used to proxy for the condition of the dwelling.
Recommendation: This data should be included in all surveys.
Food-security: A household's food security can be assessed by asking whether the household considers
itself a surplus, occasionally deficit or chronically deficit household.
Recommendation: This data should be included in all surveys. Participatory research methods such as
wealth ranking exercises and case studies can be used as well.
Ownership and control over assets: The literature on intra-household bargaining (Sen 1990, Lundberg
and Pollack 1993) generally agree that greater female ownership and control over assets is likely to enhance
a woman's status within the household. One has to be careful to distinguish between 'ownership' and
'control' during the interviews; for instance a woman may say she 'owns' poultry but then if asked whether
she can sell them of her own accord (a proxy for 'control') she may reply differently.
Recommendation: Probing for this information would be carried out in case studies.
Mobility: Credit programs can enhance a female's mobility due to the need to attend regular meetings and
occasional training sessions. This can aid the process of 'empowerment' as females become more 'visible'
in traditionally 'male-spheres'.
Recommendation: Probing for this information would be carried out in case studies.
Participation: Membership in a WFI may lead a female to interact more with the local community and
participate more actively in local decision-making and in other local bodies.
Recommendation: Probing for this information would be carried out in case studies and in FGD's.
Collective action: The community-based organizations that MFI's promote as a means of delivering credit
can provide a forum for collective action e.g. to protest for a particular cause. In this way, credit could
contribute to empowerment of the rural poor as well as to empowerment of rural women.
Recommendation: Probing for this information would be carried out in case studies and in FGD's.
- 22 -



II. Institutional Arrangements for the Monitoring and Evaluation
The institutional 'home' for M&E will be PKSF's 'research cell'. Currently the research cell is in a
nascent stage, and a strengthened 'research cell' will work under the newly formed Financial Services for
the Poorest (FSP) Unit, supported by a research working group (RWG) composed of outside experts.
These proposed arrangements are described below:
(i)    PKSF Research Cell: Currently this is composed only of one full time Assistant Manager who has
begun some work on the govemance structure of POs. The PKSF research cell will be expanded to include
four staff led by a Manager. Two Deputy Managers, one with experience in quantitative/survey research
tools and another with experience in qualitative methods would be hired. Both these individuals are
expected to have graduate training with around three years of research experience. In addition, another
Assistant Manager with a background on sociology/ social science would be hired to assist the quantitative
and qualitative specialists. Finally, PKSF's research cell would also hire part time data collectors as and
when required (see table 1) which will prove more cost-effective than a full time staff complement. Staff
from PKSF's research cell will supervise the data collection both for the quantitative and qualitative
research. During the three years of the LIL, the Research Cell will focus on M&E work of the 20 POs
working with the poorest, but subsequently the agenda can be broadened. Capacity building for the
research cell has been included in the budget.
(ii)   Link between PKSF's Research Cell and FSP Unit: The FSP Unit will be engaged in coordinating
the programs for the poorest within PKSF and acting as the main liaison with the outside community. The
staff of the FSP Unit and the Research Cell will work closely in order to ensure that the M&E findings are
operationalized.
(iii) Link between PKSF's Research Cell and Research Working Group (R WG): A Research Working
Group (RWG) will be formed to provide hands-on guidance to PKSF's research cell. The functions of the
RWG would be to: (a) advise on conceptual/methodological issues on M&E; (b) develop quantitative and
qualitative research tools jointly with PKSF's research cell; (c) act as resource persons during training of
field enumerators; (d) advise on appropriate data compilation and entry methods; (e) advise on data
analysis techniques; (f) provide comments on report drafts; and (g) provide guidance to PKSF in
appropriate dissemination of results. These functions can be split into discrete tasks and provision has
been made in the M&E budget for this essential advisory role. The suggested composition of the RWG are:
three management-level PKSF staff; three academics from BIDS; one senior researcher from BRAC's
Research and Evaluation Division; and two persons from other institutions.
(iv)   Link between PKSF's Research Cell and POs: As Table 1 indicates, there are certain M&E
functions where close involvement of the POs is essential (e.g. for the suggested monthly financial and
program monitoring). This requires an enhancement of the POs' capacity for which at least one staff
member from each PO will benefit from training in research methods. Each PO will also have one MIS
Officer in their payroll who, in addition to his/her responsibilities for financial monitoring, will work
closely with PKSF's research staff.
(v)    Link between PKSF's Research Cell and World Bank As part of the collective learning, the Bank
supervision missions will evaluate how the work is being conducted and whether the proposed institutional
arrangements are in fact working out. PKSF will share with the Bank the primary data collected under the
project for additional independent analysis.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
S~~~~iI tm                                                      ..Y ..°.g
Microcredit                                               3.33         0.00         3.33
Capacity Building                                                                   0.00
Borrowers                                              0.95         0.00         0.95
POs                                                    1.14         0.00         1.14
PKSF                                                   0.14         0.00         0.14
Disaster Fund for the Poorest                             0.31         0.00         0.31
Monitoring and Evaluation                                 0.13         0.00         0.13
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.00         0.00         6.00
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costsi              6.00         0.00         6.00
Total Financing Required              6.00          0.00         6.00
Goods                                                      0.19          0.00         0.19
Microcredit                                                3.33          0.00         3.33
Services                                                   0.79          0.00         0.79
Disaster Fund for the Poorest                              0.31          0.00         0.31
Incremental Staff Salaries and Operating Costs             1.38          0.00          1.38
Total Project Costs1     6.00          0.00         6.00
Total Financing Required      6.00          0.00         6.00
Identfiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 83.33% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-24 -



Annex 4: Financial Management
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
Adeauacv of Financial Manaeement System:
PKSF is a successful second-tier financial institution that provides loans to its Partner
Organizations (POs), which in turn provide collateral free credit to their poor members. Being an
implementing agency for two IDA projects, PKSF has maintained a proven track record in terms
of operational and financial management system and has been exposed to the Bank's fund
management procedures. PKSF has demonstrated good financial discipline in implementing the
Micro-finance I project and has been complying with the financial covenants in the on-going
Micro Finance II project. The Accounting Manual of PKSF, Accounting and Fund Management
Manual for POs, Loan Operations and Administration Manual and policy guidelines for selection
of POs provide a comprehensive and well integrated financial management framework which will
be adequate to meet Bank's financial management requirements during implementation of the
proposed LIL project. The Borrower's Implementation Plan (BIP) has adequately outlined
PKSF's current financial management arrangements for the proposed LIL project.
Current Financial Manasement System:
The executing agency for the project is the PKSF which is a private, non profit organization
governed under section 28 of the Companies Act 1994. A seven-member Governing Body which
is fully autonomous supports PKSF in formulating policies and overseeing operations. PKSF
maintains computerized accounting system using double entry bookkeeping principles and accrual
ba'sis of accounting, which generate timely Financial Statements. It has qualified Accountants,
well defined job responsibilities, adequate policies and procedure in the form of Manuals and
Guidelines to perform financial management functions efficiently and effectively. The manuals are
updated periodically to respond to the changing needs in the microcredit sector.
The financial transactions are pre-audited by PKSF's' internal audit cell which also undertakes
annual audit of POs as per annual internal audit plan. PKSF's annual Financial Statements and
accounts are audited by a private audit firm which also gets POs accounts audited on a sampling
basis. The proposed project will largely follow PKSF's current financial management
arrangements for rural microcredit, which has proven satisfactory and capable of processing
financial transactions and managing funds for the purposes intended.
Risk Analysis:
From the financial management perspective, there is low risk affecting the project. This is
because a large portion of the proceeds would be utilized for microcredit by PKSF which in turn
will disburse the funds to the selected POs, a process in which PKSF has demonstrated adequate
competence. PKSF has stringent criteria in enlisting its POs and has a separate research cell to
monitor POs' performance and other indicators, based on which corrective actions are taken when
necessary. The continuous audit of POs by internal audit cell of PKSF adds additional oversight
on proper utilization of funds provided to POs. In addition, PKSF's plan to undertake
-25 -



performance audit of 100% eligible small and medium size POs will greatly contribute to
mitigating any potential risk during project implementation.
Implementation Arraneements:
PKSF will create a "Financial Services for the Poorest Unit" to implement this LIL, which will
work under the overall guidance and supervision of PKSF's management. The Unit will be
responsible for coordinating the programs for the poorest within PKSF and liaison with the
outside community. The Unit will have a full time Project Coordinator, a Deputy Project
Coordinator, an MIS officer and an Office Assistant. The Unit will work closely with the Finance
Cell of PKSF, which will be responsible for financial management activities of the project.
Funds Flow:
PKSF will enter into a Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreement (SLGA) with GOB under which
IDA/GOB funds under the project would be on-lent to it; the SLGA will spell out PKSF's
responsibilities under the project, lending terms and conditions, and reporting and auditing
requirements.
PKSF will on-lend Microcredit to the selected POs under sub-project agreements and the POs in
turn will make the fund available to their microcredit borrowers. IDA fund for Disaster Fund for
the Poorest component will be accessed by PKSF after a PO has reimbursed a borrower following
a diaster or emergency by utilizing its own resources and applied to PKSF for reimbursement.
PKSF shall manage the Disaster Fund for the Poorest in accordance with the procedures and
terms and conditions set forth in the Diaster Fund Operational Manual.
For utilization of IDA's share of eligible expenditure, PKSF will open a special Deposit Account
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The Managing Director and in his/her absence
the Deputy Managing Director of PKSF will be the authorized persons for issuing payments
through checks, payment request to Banks and withdrawal of funds from IDA credit.
Transaction based disbursement procedures will be applicable for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit.
PKSF will not need counterpart funds from the government as it will provide funds from its own
sources.
Accounting and Internal Controls:
The existing financial management system would cover all project related transactions i.e. all
sources and uses of funds would be accounted for and reflected in the financial statements.
Books of accounts for the proposed project will be maintained on a cash basis using double-entry
bookkeeping principles. Activity based subsidiary record for monitoring of detail accounts/key
indicators will also be maintained. The current computerized accounting system in PKSF will be
- 26 -



followed which is adequate to keep track of project financial transactions.
The duties and responsibilities of PKSF's staff are properly segregated and well defined. The
reporting relationship is clearly stated in the Operation and Administration Manual.
Approval authority and the procedures to process financial transaction are laid down in PKSF's
Accounting Manual and will be followed in case of transactions relating to eligible project
expenditure .
Financial Reporting and Monitoring:
The Finance Department of PKSF will be responsible for the preparation of financial reporting,
monitoring and analyzing of financial information and preparing reports for GOB, Ministry of
Finance and the Bank.
PKSF has experience in preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) and will submit a set of
agreed Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the project within 45 days of the end of each
quarter.
A set of customized formats for Financial Management Reports (FMRs) are included in the
Borrower's Implementation Plan and would be submitted to the Bank for monitoring project
physical and financial progress.
PKSF's internal audit system is being strengthened. The existing internal audit manual, which was
developed by PKSF, has been updated to meet the growing and changing business needs. The
internal audit team works under a well defined TOR and reports directly to the MD. Internal
Audit Cell conducts audit of POs to verify, among others, whether POs comply with the
sub-project agreement and recommends corrective actions.
Staffing:
PKSF has adequate and qualified Financial Management staff. The Finance Cell is headed by a
General Manager (Finance) and is supported by four professional staff.
All the finance staff are well versed with Bank's financial management requirements. PKSF will
designate one staff from the Finance department who has previous experience in Bank financed
projects, to be solely responsible for project specific financial management activities.
With the increased responsibilities and expansion of PKSF's microcredit program, there is a need
for staff training to upgrade their skills on MIS and its linkages to computerized financial,
management system. Provision has been kept in the project for such training.
External Audit:
PKSF complied with the financial covenants of the two previous IDA Credits and submitted the
- 27 -



audit reports required by the closed Micro-finance I and the on-going Micro-finance II projects in
a timely manner. The Auditor expressed unqualified opinions on the financial statements.
Since there will be a separate Credit Agreement for the LIL, the annual financial statements of the
project would also be audited by a private audit firm and would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit report will include separate opinions on
Project Financial Statements, Special Account and SOE. The TOR of the audit will be agreed
during Negotiations.
The following audit reports would be monitored in the Audit Report Compliance System
(ARCS):
Im lementing Agency      Audit                     Auditors
PKSF                     Project Account/SOE       Private audit firm
PKSF                      Special Account          Private audit firm
- 28-



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
, V6 o, je .cS,tthXul,,- Ii$, 8,e TC  ,y, §*J  M, I' ,^ r r^1anS Cd§el -. -.:t,%-^'m^.~ctAl:> ,'
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                          6
First Bank mission (Identification)              12/06/2001                 12/06/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      03/27/2002                 03/27/2002
Negotiations                                     06/12/2002                 06/12/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/2002
Prepared by:
Palli Karma-Sahayak Foundation (PKSF).
Preparation assistance:
Bank and PKSF own budget.
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                     SpecialtIy
Joseph del mar Pernia             Lead Financial Sector Specialist
Shamsuddin Ahmad                  Senior Financial Economist
Hassan Zaman                      Senior Economist
Nilufar Ahmad                      Senior Social Scientist
Zahed Khan                         Senior Urban Specialist
M. Aminul Haque                    Senior Procurement Specialist
Suraiya Zannath                    Financial Management Specialist
Mohammad Sayeed                   Disbursement Officer
Margaret Murray                   Administrative Assistant
Ziaun Nahar Joya                   Team Assistant
- 29 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
Procurement
For procurement of Goods, financed in part or whole from IDA funds, the procedures outlined in
the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 (Revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. Consultants services,
financed in part or whole from IDA funds, shall be procured in accordance with the "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (Revised
September 1997, January 1999 and April 2002). Table A summarizes project components,
related cost estimates, and proposed methods of procurement. Amounts in parenthesis show the
amounts to be financed by IDA. Table B summarizes thresholds for procurement methods and
prior review.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Credit component (US$3.33 million equivalent ): The final borrower's use of loan will be
determined by PKSF in consultation with partner organizations (POs) providing these loans. POs
loan award procedures, stringent repayment requirements, and the final borrower's empowerment
to use the loan productively will ensure that the procurement is economic and efficient. The loans
will be used for income generating activities and will have 100% local content. PKSF's close
supervision and monitoring of POs and implementation of various policy instumments will ensure
that the microcredit is used for intended purposes and also productively. The POs will ensure that
the borrowers purchase goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of microcredits in
accordance with the procurement practices of POs, acceptable to the Association. Twenty POs
were selected following the outcome of a workshop titled "Financial Services for the
Ultra-Hardcore Poor" arranged by PKSF and participated by a number of potential POs. The
workshop called for an innovative delivery model for microfinance services to the poorest. The
potential and interested POs of PKSF were asked to submit proposals for providing microfinance
services to the poorest and indicate their willingness to be involved in the LIL. Based on their
proposals, 20 POs were selected from the list by PKSF. The selection criteria and the list of the
selected POs are as follows:
Selection Criteria:
1)    Have interest to work with the poorest;
2)    Operate in comparatively more poverty stricken areas;
3)    Have good track record with PKSF and have a demonstrated experience of ensuring
proper utilization of loan money maintaining a high rate
of recovery on a continuous basis in both the PKSF and grass-root level;
4)    Have potential to expand the program by avoiding duplication with the activities of other
organizations in the same area;
5)    Have potential, skills and organizational strength to organize the local poorest and to
extend financial services to them;
- 30 -



6)     Have financial capabilities to cross subsidize additional expenses for the program;
7)     Have capabilities to establish a separate cell withi trained staff to run the Program with
effective organizational network.
Selection was also based on geographical coverage throughout the country covering twenty
upazilas under 18 districts and all six divisions.
Names of the Selected POs for FSP Proiect
Name                           Proposed Upazila                   District
Assistance for Social Organization and Development  Manda                    Naogaon
(ASOD), Dhaka
Bangladesh Association for Social Advancement   Mirzapur                     Tangail
(BASA)
Bangladesh Extension Education Services (BEES),  Madhabpur                   Habiganj
Dhaka
Dushtha Shasthya Kendra (DSK), Dhaka            Durgapur                     Netrokona
Padakkhep Manobik Unnayan Kendra, Dhaka        Nazirpur                      Pirojpur
Resource Integration Centre (RIC), Dhaka       Moheshkhali                   Cox's Bazar
PRODIPAN, Dhaka                                 Dewanganj                    Jamalpur
Uttara Development Programme (UDP), Thakurgaon  Nawabganj                     Dinajpur
Tengamara Mohila Sabuj Sangha (TMSS), Bogra     Shariakandi                   Bogra
Centre for Advancement Research & Social Action  Kalkini                      Madaripur
(CARSA), Dhaka
Agroforestry Seed Production and Development    Fulbaria                      Mymensingh
Association (ASPADA), Mymensingh
Rural Reconstruction Centre (RRC), Jessore      Jhikargacha                   Jessore
Addin-Welfare Centre, Jessore                   Sharsha                       Jessore
Society for Social Services (SSS), Tangail      Tangail Sadar                 Tangail
Grarneen Krishi Foundation (GKF), Rangpur       Lalmonirhat Sadar             Lalmonirhat
Samaj Kallyan Sangstha (SKS), Gaibandha         Fulchari                      Gaibandha
ESDO, Thakurgaon                                Thakurgaon Sadar              Thakurgaon
Karmajibi Kallyan Sangstha (KKS), Rajbari       Goalanda                      Rajbari
Desha, Shechashebi Artho-Samajik Unnayan 0      Bheremara                     Kushtia
Manobik Kallyan Sangstha, Kushtia
Grameen Poribesh Kallyan Sangstha (WAVE),       Damurhuda                     Chuadanga
Chundanga
Goods (US$ 0.19 million equivalent): The major goods to be procured for PKSF and POs are:
-31 -



(i) one automobile; two computers including printers and accessories and one photocopier for
PKSF; and (ii) 20 computers including printers and accessories, 20 motorcycles and 300 bicycles
for POs. In addition to PKSF's own goods, PKSF will also procure the computers, motorcycles
and bicycles for the POs to ensure uniformity and quality of the goods. Since none of the
contracts are expected to exceed US$60,000 equivalent, they will not attract the interest of
foreign suppliers and, therefore, these goods will be procured following national competitive
bidding (NCB) method, acceptable to IDA. The reports and publications of PKSF will be
published throughout the project period, in very small quantities at a time, following the NS
method. In addition to the above, a very small quantity of books and journals will be procured
from publishers and/or vendors following the direct contracting method.
Services (US$ 0.79 million equivalent): There are 4 categories of services contracts planned
under the project. There are 10 contracts for income generation activity (IGA) training for POs
and ultimate borrowers with estimated costs of US$0.65 million equivalent which will be
procured following the Single Source Selection method. The contract for Data Entry, estimated
to cost of US$ 0.01 million equivalent will be procured following Least Cost Selection method.
Six contracts for workshop and seminars with estimated costs of US$0.02 million equivalent will
be procured through National Shopping method following the Procurement Guidelines, since
these deliverables are quantifiable. Forty-eight contracts estimated to cost US$0.09 million
equivalent for training and research activities will be procured following selection of Individual
Consultant, Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.
Disaster Fund for the Poorest (US$0.31 million equivalent): A Disaster Fund for the Poorest
will be set up at PKSF by depositing an agreed amount from each disbursement to POs in a
separate commercial bank account, for compensating poorest borrowers for losses caused by
natural disasters. The operation of this Fund will be guided by the terms and conditions specified
in the Disaster Fund for the Poorest Operational Manual which is under preparation. The same
procurement practices will be followed by the POs and the borrowers for replacing the goods and
services, as done under the Microcredit component. The Operational Manual is a condition of
Effectiveness.
Incremental Staff Salaries and Operating Costs (US$1.38 million equivalent):  The
incremental staff salaries and operating costs of PKSF and POs will be procured in accordance
with PKSF and POs procedures, acceptable to the Association. These costs will be covered under
the Project on a declining basis.
Procurement Capacity: All procurement under the proposed project will be handled by PKSF.
It has successfully implemented the IDA funded Microcredit Project-1, and is currently
implementing the IDA funded Second Microfinance Project (Cr. 3457-BD). PKSF's own staff
and the individual consultants appointed on a retainer basis dealing with procurement have
acquired reasonable knowledge and experience with respect to IDA policy and procedures on
Procurement. Therefore, the procurement risk is low. However, to refresh their knowledge, the
staff dealing with procurement will be required to attend training courses.
Procurement and Selection Planning: Procurement requirements for Goods and Services under
-32-



the project have been identified and agreed upon with PKSF. The draft Procurement and
Selection Plans have been prepared and included in BIP. Prior to issuance of any invitation for:
(i) bids for procurement of goods; and (ii) expressions of interest for short-listing of consultants;
PKSF will furnish the Procurement Plan, complete with processing schedules, to IDA for its
review and approval in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and selection of all consultants shall be undertaken in
accordance with the Procurement Plan as shall have been approved by IDA. PKSF will promptly
inform IDA of any delay, or any changes in the scheduling of the procurement or selection
process, which could significantly affect the timely and successful implementation of contracts.
PKSF will also agree with IDA on corrective measures, in accordance with the said paragraph 1
of the Guidelines.
Use of Standard Documents: For NCB procurement, the Standard Bidding Documents (SBD)
for goods approved by the Association will be used. For selection of consulting firms, the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposals, including standard contract forms, will be used. The Bank's
Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods and Sample Form of Evaluation for Services will be
followed for submission of bid evaluation reports to IDA.
IDA Prior Review Thresholds (Details in Table B):
Goods: IDA will carry out a prior review of the. first two contracts following NCB method
irrespective of value and all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more.
All other contracts will be subject to selective ex-post review by IDA. The selective ex-post
review of contracts below the threshold will be carried out for approximately 20% of the
contracts awarded.
Services: IDA's prior review will be required for all services' contracts for firms estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more. For individual consultants, estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference (TOR) and
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furmished to IDA for its prior review. IDA will
review the justifications for all single source contracts. In addition, IDA's prior review will be
required for TORs of all contracts irrespective of contract price.
Review of Procurement Performance: The procurement status and its compliance with Bank's
Guidelines will be monitored by IDA on a continuous basis. Based on this assessment, and in
consultation with PKSF/GOB, IDA may revise the prior review threshold and procurement and
selection methods.
Acceptability of NCB:
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines:
1)  standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used;
2)  invitations to bids will be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
- 33 -



newspaper, and bidding documents will be made available
to prospective bidders at least 28 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
3)   bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated
cost;
4)   bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay
the required fee;
5)  foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be
given to national bidders;
6)   qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will be stated in the
bidding documents, and if a registration process is
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given
reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or
hindrance;
7)   bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail;
8)   all bidders will provide bid security as indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder's bid
security shall apply only to a specific bid;
9) bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but no later than one hour,
after the deadline for submission of bids;
10) evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed
with the Association;
11) bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate
without the prior concurrence of the Association;
12) split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When two or more
bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is
determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; or (B) if
no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then
fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
13) contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid
validity so that extensions are not necessary.
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances;
14) extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it is
longer than eight weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions irrespective of
the period;
15) negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders:
16) re-bidding will not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence; and
17) all contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as indicated in the contract
documents. A contractor's or a supplier's
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished.
- 34 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ 6.00 million equivalent):
Expenditure                Procurement Method                  Total Cost
Category
ICB            NCB            Other
1. Goods             0.00           0.179           0.008          0.187
(0.00)         (0.125)        (0.006)         (0.131)
2. Services          0.00            0.00           0.79            0.79
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.63)         (0.63)
3. Incremental       0.00            0.00           1.38            1.38
Staff Salaries and   (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.929)         (0.929)
Operating Costs
4. Disaster Fund     0.00            0.00           0.31            0.31
for the Poorest     (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.31)         (0.31)
5. Microcredit       0.00            0.00           3.333          3.333
(0.00)         (0.00)          (3.00)         (3.00)
TOTAL            0.00           0.179           5.821           6.00
__________   (0.00)  (0.125)   (4.875)        (5.00)
Notes:
1. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA Credit. All costs include
contingencies.
2. Services contracts selection arrangements are elaborated further below in Table Al:
Consultant Selection Arrangements.
Table Al: Services Consultant Selection Arrangements (US$0.79 million equivalent)
Consultant Services            Selection Method              Total Cost
Expenditure Category  NS        LCS       Single  Individual
Source   Contract
A. Finns              0.0175     0.01      0.6475     0.00      0.675
(0.014)    (0.008)   (0.518)   (0.00)      (0.54)
B. Individuals         0.00      0.00       0.00     0.115      0.115
(0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.09)     (0.09)
TOTAL                0.0175      0.01      0.6475    0.115       0.79
(0.014)    (0.008)   (0.518)   (0.09)      (0.63)
1. NS= National Shopping, LCS = Least Cost Selection
2. Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
- 35 -



Table B: Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value      Procurement Method      Contracts Subject to
Category                                                          Prior Review
Goods        >=US$100,000             National   Competitive First two contracts
Bidding                irrespective of value,
and all contracts
equivalent 100,000 or
more
<=US$100,000             National   Competitive Ex-post review   on a
Bidding                sample basis
<=US$20,000              National Shopping      Ex-post review
<=US$2,000               Direct Contact         Ex-post review
Services     Any amount               Single Source Selection  All         contracts
.___.______                                             irrespective of value
>=US$100,000 for Firms    QCBS/QBS               Yes
<-US$100,000 for Finns    Least Cost Selection,  TOR
>=US$50,000 for           Single Source Individual Yes
Individuals               Selection
<=US$50,000 for           Single Source Individual TOR
Individuals               Selection
Table A: Procurement Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Indicative
Completion/
Pckg    Component/Desc. of      Estimated  Procurement   Date of     Date of      Delivery
No.      Services/Goods          Cost       Method'    RFP/ITB2     Award         Date'
I   Automobile                   0.04    NCB                     Aug.15, 2002 Aug.25, 2002
(0.03)
2   Computers, printers,         0.06     CB                     Aug.20, 2002 Aug.31, 2002
accessories & maintenance   (0.04)
3   Motorcycle for POs           0.04    NCB                     Aug.31, 2002 Sept.15, 2002
(0.03)
4   Bicycles for POs             0.03    NCB                     Aug.31, 2002 Sept.15, 2002
(0.02)
5   Photocopier                  0.01     S                      July 15, 2002 July 31,2002
(0.00)
6   Publication and Reports      0.00    NS                      Feb.28, 2003  Throughout
(0.00)
8   Project Launching Workshop   0.01    NS                      Aug. 1, 2002  August 7, 2002
(0.01)
9   Training for Research Staff of  0.00   DIVIDUAL              Aug.10, 2002 Throughout
PKSF                        (0.00)
-36 -



10   Training Needs Assessment       0.04     INDIVIDUAL                 Aug. 1, 2002  Throughout
(0.03)
11   Specific IGA Training           0.65     SINGLE                     December 31, Throughout
(0.52)    SOURCE                    2002
12   Enumerator                      0.03     INDIVIDUAL                 Aug.7, 2002  Throughout
(0.02)
Total      $0.91
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   $ 0 .7 0_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies
v RFP - Request for Proposals, ITB - Invitation to Bid, ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding, NCB - Nafional
Competitive Bidding, QCBS - Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, QBS - Quality-based Selection, SFB -
Selection under a Fixed Budget, LCS - Least-Cost Selection, CQ - Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
3' End of contact may not exceed loan/credit board date
-37 -



Disbursement
Disbursement under the proposed Credit will be made as indicated in Table B, which indicates the
percentage of financing for different categories of expenditures of the project. It is expected that
IDA funds will be disbursed over a period of four years. The fiscal year disbursement estimate is
provided on page 2 of the PAD. The closing date of the Credit will be December 31, 2005.
Table B: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditurie Citegorj0  !  ' Ai bunt,ih   illioni ,,  ;, .- 'Fii cingfercentage,
1. Microcredit                           2.85               90% of disbursed amount.
2. Goods                                 0.12           100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of
local expenditure (ex-factory), 70% of
local expenditure for other items
procured locally.
3. Consultants services including        0.60                        80%.
training
4. Disaster Fund for the Poorest         0.30                        100%
5. Incremental staff salaries and        0.88           80% in FY03, 70% in FY04, and 60%
Operating Costs.                                                  thereafter.
Unallocated                               0.25
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
- 0.00
Total Project Costs                       5.00
Total                                     5.00
Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs)
The traditional disbursement procedures will be applicable for withdrawal of funds from IDA
Credit. IDA will require full documentation for all prior review cases where contracts exceed the
equivalent of: (a) US$ 100,000 for goods; (b) US$100,000 for services contracts with firms; and
(c) US$50,000 for individuals. Expenditures below the above threshold and all expenditures
under microcredit, Disaster Fund for the Poorest, incremental staff salaries and operating costs,
and training, workshops/seminar expenses would be claimed on SOEs. During the initial
supervision by IDA, the mission will closely review the microcredit expenditures to ensure that
the fund is utilized for the intended purpose. Any deviations noticed during such reviews would
be noted for remedy and improvement.
- 38 -



Special Account
For utilization of IDA's share of project expenditures, PKSF may open and maintain with
Bangladesh Bank a Special Deposit Account in US Dollars under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation to the Special Deposit Account will be limited to
three or four months of estimated expenditures of IDA's share of the proposed project. The
authorized allocation will be limited to US$550,000 equivalent. The Managing Director, or in
his/her absence, the Deputy Managing Director of PKSF will have access to the Special Deposit
Account. PKSF will utilize the Special Deposit Account funds for reimbursement against eligible
expenditures only. Finance and Account Unit of PKSF will be responsible for preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications to IDA.
Since PKSF has successfully implemented the IDA-funded Microcredit-I Project and is currently
implementing the IDA-funded Second Microfinance Project, the staff of the Finance and
Accounting unit has acquired adequate knowledge and experience with respect to IDA Policy and
Procedures on Disbursements. Therefore, PKSF will be able to: (a) withdraw IDA funds from
the Credit; (b) disburse funds to Partner Organizations (PO) and account for those funds for
reimbursement/replenishment with the existing manpower. However, to refresh their knowledge
on Financial Management and Disbursement selected staff of finance and accounting unit of PKSF
will be required to attend training.
- 39 -



Annex 7: Documents In the Project File*
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower's Implementation Plan, prepared by PKSF, April 30, 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
FSP, LIL: Minutes of Brainstorming Meeting, February 25, 2002*
FSP, LIL: Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, April 13, 2002
FSP, LIL: Back-to-Office Report, May 16, 2002
Bangladesh Poverty Assessment, World Bank and Asian Development Bank, May 2002
Assessing the Impact of Micro-credit on Poverty and Vulnerability in Bangladesh, Hassan Zaman, Policy
Research Working Paper 2145, The World Bank, Development Economics, July 1999
C. Other
Proceedings of the Workshop. on Financial Services for the Ultra-Hardcore Poor, PKSF, December 6, 2001
Minutes of Wrap-up Meeting for Pre-appraisal of FSP, LIL, ERD, April 13, 2002.
Project proposals submitted by 20 POs to PKSF on FSP, LEL.
Project Profiles, prepared by PKSF, on 20 POs interested in FSP, LEL
Poverty in Bangladesh: An Overview of Trends and Issues, Hossain Zillur Rahman, BIDS, December 2000
Household Foood Security through Income Generating Activities: A Challenge for the Resource Poor
Farmers in Northem Bangladesh, Syed Shamsuzzaman and Md. Sadul Amin, RDRS Bangladesh, March
2001
*Including electronic files
-40 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millilns                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IMRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev d
P044876       2002 Femnal Seoondary Sdwool Assis. II                 0.00     120.90                0.00      0.00     12148       0 00      0 00
P044810       2001 Legal & Judiial Capacity Butdlng                  0.00     30.60                 0.00      0 04      27.44      4 09      0 00
P059143       2001 MIcofinanca II                                    0.00     151.00                0.00      0.00      98.24     1016 1       00
P050752       2001 Post-Uteracy & Continuing Education               0.00     53.30                 0.00      0.00      49.87      0.41      0 00
P069933       2001 HV/AIiDS Pmeventon                                0.00     40.00                 0.00      0.00      36.40      6 74      0 00
P057833       2001 Air Quality Management Prolect                    0.00      4.71                 0.00      0.00       3 88      1.53      0 00
P044811        2000 Financial Institutions Development               0.00     46.90                 0.00      0.00      2010      15.11      000
P009468       2000 Fourth Fisheries                                  0.00     28.00                 5.00      0.00      22.02     18 00      0 00
P058468       2000 Agricultural Serv Innovation & Relorm             0.00      5.00                 0.00      0.00       1.38      085       0.00
P049587       2000 Apuatc Blodiverslty Conservation                  0.00      0.00                 5.00      000        4.22      3.05      000
P050751       2000 National Nutrition Program                        0.00     92.00                 0.00      0.00      82.57     17.30      000
P049790        1999 Export Diversafcation                            0.00     32.00                 0.00      0.00      12.03     10 76      0 00
P050745        1999 Arsenic Miigation Water Supply                   0.00     32.40                 0.00      0.00      24.45     28.31      000
P009524        1999 Dhaka UrbanTraanspot                             0.00     177.00                000       0.00     133.48    102.23      000
P041887        1999 MunicdpatServioes                                0.00     13860                 0.00      000       9937     111.18      000
P037294        1999 ThIrd Road Rehabilitation & Maitenane            0.00    273.00                 0.00      000      169.97    182.59      000
P009550        1998 Primary Education Development                    0.00     150.00                0.00     2507       58.44     52.38      681
P037857        1998 HealthandPopuiaflonProgrem                       000      250.00                0.00      0.00      7362      22.14      000
P044789        1998 Private Sector lnfrastrdcure Oev                 0.00    235.00                 0.00       0.00    157.11    16533       0.00
P040713        1998 Silk Development Pilot Prolect                   0.00      11.40                0.00       3.53      3.80      7.66      -0 02
P009482        1997 DhakaWater&SanitatonlV                           0.00     80.30                 0.00      15.28     11.20     3965       000
P009518        1997 Second Rural Roads & Markets Improvent           000      133.00                0.00       0.00      3.42      -501      1632
P009549        1996 Coastal Ernbankment Rehabctaton                  0.00      53.00                0.00       0.00      2.89      .833      12.81
P009496        1995 Bangladesh tntegrated NutrItkm                   0.00      59.60                0.00       0.58      6.61      14 39     0 00
Total:       0.00     2197.91             10.00       44.48     1224 00    800 53     35.92
- 41-



BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997               DBH                           0.00    0.65     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00
1991               Dynamic Textile                1.86   0.00     0.00    1.48    1.86    0.00    0.00     1.48
1998               Grameen Phone                 15.00    1.58    0.00    0.00   15.00    1.58    0.00    0.00
1985/95            IDLC                          0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/98            IPDC                          8.75    0.00     0.00    0.00    8.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Khulna                        18.20   0.00     0.00    0.00   18.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Lafarge/Surmna               35.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Scancem                       10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        88.81   12.23          0.00    1.48    53.81    2.23    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001               BRAC Bank                        0.00      0.00      3.00     0.00
2001               Dhaka Westin                     8.75      0.00      0.00     0.00
1998               Khulna                           0.00      0.00     3.30      0.00
2000               ULC - Bangladesh                 5.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000               USPCL                            0.00      4.00      3.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       13.75      4.00      9.30      0.00
-42 -



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
BANGLADESH: Financial Services for the Poorest
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           South      Low-
Bangladesh      Asia    Income     Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    129.8      1,355    2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method, US$)                    370       460       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                     47.9      617     1.030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populatlon (I%)                                       1.8       1.9      1.9
Labor force (I%)                                      2.9       2.4      2.4     GNI                             Gross
per                           primnary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita          . /         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  36        .         .
Urban population (X of total population)              26        28        32
Life expectancy at bIrth (years)                      e1        63        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ive births)               61        74        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            66        47        ..          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X ofpopulation)   97        87        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatIon age 15+)                   89        45        38
Gross primary enrollment (% otschool-age populatIon)  96       100        98                 Sangladesh
Male                                                96       110       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              98        90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      199      2000
Economic ratoea
GDP (US$ billions)                          17.6     30 1      46.0     47.1
Gross domestic lnvestmenUGDP                198      17.1      22.2     23.0
Exports of goods and servlces/GDP            4.2      6.2      13 2     14.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                   8.2      9.7      16.7     17.8
Gross natonal savingslGDP                   12.8     11.9      21 3     23.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -4 8     -5 2      -0.9      0.0      Domestic                   Ie     n
Interest paymentsJGDP                        0.3      0.6       0.4      0.4     savInvestment
Total debtUGDP                              24.0     42.4      37.9     35.2     svn
Total debt servIce/exports                  23.7     28.9       9.5      8.8
Present value of debtGDP                      ..       ..      23.9
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..     140.4
Indebtedness
1980490  199040     1999      2000   200044
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.3      4 8      4.9       6.9      4 7                  Bangladesh
GDP per capfta                      1.8      31       3.2       4.2      2.8                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.7     12.8      2.3       8.6      6.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Orowth of Investment and GODP I5%)
(56 oftGDP) 1
Agriculture                                   ..     30.3      26 2      25.6 8   5
Industry                                             216       25.2     25.3     10
Manufacturing                                .     13.1      16.6      16.2 2
Services                                       .     48.3      48.7      49.2
Private consumption                         89 9     86.1      78 7      77.7           9s    s    97   Oa    go   00
General govemment consumption                1.9      4.2       46        4.6                   GDI     - .  GDP
Imports of goods and services               15.8     13.6      18.7      19 2
1980-90  199040       1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  2.7      2.9       4.8       74     so
Industry                                     4 9      73        4 9      6.2     40 I     _
Manufacturing                              30       7.2       3.2       4.8    20          .
Services                                     4.4      4.5       5.2       5.6    2
Private consumpton                           4 6      3.4       1.3       4.1     0 F   06    98   97    w    w     w
General govemment consumption                5.0      4.7       0 6       0.9   -20 -
Gross domestic Investment                    1.4      9.2       9.9       7.3                 Exports  --e,Imports
Imports of goods and services                6.6      9.6       2.3       5.7
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete
-43-



Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
198     189       1S89     2t)-     In.tbon (%)
Domestic prim0s                                                      10
(% change)                                                                   lo..
Consumer prics                               ..     3.9      8.9      3.6
Implicit GDP deflator                     13.4     4.9       4 7      1.9     6
Govemment flnance                                                             2
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                            0
Current revenue                             ..     6.9       9.0      8.5           is    go    07 s   8   99
Current budget balance                      ..     0.4       1.4      0.7                 GDP deflator  tCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..     -6.8     -4.8     -6.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                           m1SW     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import blve (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         ..    1,524    5,324    5,762    0o.o0o
Raw Jute                                   ..     163       72       71
Leather and leather products               ..     178      188      194       o*000
Manufactures                               ..   1,008     4,770    5.137     6.000
Total Imports (crf)                         ..    3,791    8,017    8.403     4.000
Food                                       ..     343      997      260
Fuel and energy                            ..     174      388      489     2.000
Capital goods                              ..   1,296     1,684    2,515       0
Export price Index (1995=100)               ..      67       103      103               95   go  sr   go   r    0o
Import prioe Index (1995=100)               ..      96        97       99               *Expoits     *   'norts
Temms of trade (1995=100)                    ..     70       106      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millIons)                           1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services              885    1,903    6,031    6,611     1 I
importsof goods and servlces             2,546    4,156    8,527    9,060
Resourme balance                         -1,680  -2253    -2,496    -2,449    o-
Net Income                                  14    -122      -135     -221       .
Net current transfers                      802     802     2.237    2,672
Current account balance                   -844   -1.573     -394        2
Financing items (net)                      640    1,198      189       77
Changes in net resrves                     204     377       205      -79
MIemo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millIons)       ..     520      1,513    1,596
Conversion rate (DEC, hcaVUS$)            15.5     33.3     47.8     50.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990     1999     2600
(USS millions)                                                                Composlton of 2000 debt (US$ milL).
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     4,230   12,768    17,422   18,589
IBRD                                      55      64        31       24                   G. 295
IDA                                      926    4,095    6,428    6,431               F 1S1    A.24
Total debt service                      * 278      791       748      762
IBRD                                       3       5         7      1          E 4,M                     B 6.431
IDA                                        6      41       119      129 50
Composition of net resource flows
Offlical-grants                            0     786       345      283
Offidal creditors                        687     878       377      355
Privatecreditors                          11      67       -12       16
Foreign direct nvestment                   0       3       198      194                       -       C 21
Portfollo equity                           0     -194       48        0              (> 4,737
World Bank program
Commitments                              331     572       595      198     A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            156     484       413      367     0- IDA   0- Otler nmwularal  F - Private
Prindpal repayments                        0      14        78       87     C-IMF                     G - Short-taerm
Net flows                                156     470       335      270
Interest payments                          9      32        48       49
Net transfers                            147     438       288      221
Development Economics                                                                                         9/5/01
-44-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24206R1
BANGLADESH
Th  rgoon-                                                DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
,1HAKURGAN  nNILPHAMARI                                     DIVISION BOUNDARIES
N'' hor,,o DINAIPUR  <~--                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\ °D,no1pur  XRANGPUR S\tIfiMLSO                       2       o      7
J   k  / Gclbonb.dh O 
0         gS,KILOMETERS     0   25   50   75  100
Son,orrtgoni 0
AiJ            H     opr              N    N       SUNAMGANJ rSYLHET
V       N..gAJ       H          0 J BDorokona JAMAclh
serogano ~~~~~~~~~~K,'       HABIGANJ  Om. I BoeJ
_g  @   RAJSHAHI ) ~NATORE                    KJS IRAN   0     OMB7A
;/ ~~~~~ONoto,e    <      EAGN ;TANGAI   \ISHRAJ<5    Hobg.l_n -
Tango°dobgor1
INDIA              P Abobn               oc C      d Rna          INSIA 
j/ .  KSHI I            n     DHAKAg          B omo        INDIA
*>s> j HENAfDAr) OM  >FARIOPUR  noNhSgHain1;<OIf 
EHE     DORIIP                     ' Chondpur            .KNAGRACHHA
f thesWorl  bono                      m
he boundo,es, colorsbANDARBN; .  K                                                   J . hodQ
denom,oohorrs ad  ony                                                     oflandarb
status  of  arty  terrrtOry  Fa,       ulC        MIL
S~~~~~~~M      FAIDU       r,hgn                          1¢orsl
or occeptonce of suchsore  ora
hoondoocs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FNI               KoM
Sotk Ira     gerhotBAY OF BENGAL                  Coos Raz
INDIA~~~~~~?ATHR KHLN                        Bh
by         8ENGA .p Dmg U
MAY1 988









IMAGING
Report No.:          24171   BD
Type:      PAD



