I M(iL)p I(1-i H (")pY
Documer
The WorlI          R.p-;rt No.  '"70-ME   Type:
e    orz  k XF<-)fll.* t / Xi:5I It    1 ]-/1 71/' iA,A-l-
FOR OFFICIAL
AAJ 3c,7-Ai
Report No. 9770-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
AUGUST 28, 1991
Country Department II
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
IThis document has a restriced dsbution and may be used by redpents onWy in the performance of
their ofaicrat duties. Its contents my not ot_erwise be disdosed wihout World  ank authorizatIom



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =    Peso (MEX$)
US$1.00                   -    3,022 Pesos (July 1991)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - June 30
UNMTS OF WEIGHTTS AND MEASURES
Metric                         British/US Equivalent
1 kilogram (kg)          =    2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)     =    2,250 pounds
1 liter (1)              -    0.26 gallons (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3)       =    1,000 liters
ACRONYMS
CAM                   In-Service Teacher Training Centers
(Centros de Actualizaci6n del Magisterio)
CAPFCE                Federal School Construction Agency
(Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de Construcci6n de Escuelas)
CONAFE                National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educativo)
CONACEN               National Advisory Council for Teacher Training (Consejo Nacional Consultivo
de Educaci6n Normal)
CONALEP               National System for Vocational and Technical Education (Colegio Nacional de
Educaci6n Profesional Tecnica)
DGEI                  General Directorate of Indigenous Education (Direccion General de Educaci6ii
Indigena)
DGEIR                 General Directorate for Evaluation
(Direcci6n General de Evaluaci6n y de Incorporaci6n y Revalidaci6n)
DGEP                  General Directorate of Primary Education (Direcci6n General de Educaci6n
Primaria)
DGPPYP                General Directorate of Planning, Programnning and Budgeting in SEP
(Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n, Programaci6n, y Presupuesto
EPU                   Education Publications Unit (Unidad de Publicaci6n Educativa)
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
INI                   National Institute for the Indigenous Population (Instituto Nacional Indigenista)
NAfIN                 National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
PCU                   Project Coordinating Unit
SCEP                  SEP's state-level education entities
(Servicios Coordinados de Educaci6n Publica)
SEP                   Secretariat of Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica)
SHCP                  Secretariat of Fmance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SNTE                  National Teachers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadores Educativos)
SOLIDARIDAD           National Solidarity Program (Programa Nacional de Solidaridad)
SPCU                  State Project Coordinating Unit
SPP                   Federal Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (Secretaria de Programaci6n
y Presupuesto)
UPN                   National Pedagogical University
(Universidad Pedag6gica Nacional)
USEC                  Undersecretariat for Educational Coordination
(Subsecretaria de Coordinaci6n Educativa)
UTE                   Educational Television Unit (Unidad de Televisi6n Educativa)



MEXICO                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents                                 Page
LOAN AND PROJECI SUMMARY ................................................. iii
BASIC DATA .................,,,,,,,,,,,.................. vi
DEFINITIONS ..... . vii
I.                INTRODUCTION. ...,,,,                                                    1
II.                THE EDUCATION SECOR ....................................               2
A. Overview of Sectoral Achievement.                                   2
B. Sector Organization.                                                2
C. Issues in Primary Education.                                        3
D. Government Strategy for the Education Sector.                       8
E. Bank Role and Experience in the Education
Sector.                                                            9
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement .10
In.   TE PROJECT .1
A. Project Concept and Objectives                 .11
B3. Project Areas and Target Population .   1
C. Project Components .12
D. Project Description .13
1. Educational Services Improvement Component .13
2. Institutional Strengthening Component .20
IV.                PROJECT COSTS. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT.
AND AU.I. 2.25
A. Project Costs and Financing .25
B. Procurement .27
C. Disbursements .29
D. Accounts and Audits .30
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal mission that visited MexAco in March 1991. The
mission was composed of Mmes/Messrs. Michelle Riboud (mission leader), Sam Carlson (economist),
Eduardo Velez (education specialist), Maria Elena Anderson (operations analyst, consultant), M. Bravo
(distance education specialist, consultant), Francois Orivel (education specialist, consultant) and A.
Zuiiiga (architect, consultant). Darren Dorldn and David Warren provided editorial and preparation
assistance.
Th d M    .1Ih i a rob tW-toel distrihut *n a 'I gi v he a t1 hv ro1w   *tntn e liv in thA -rfnrfr -a



-li-
V.                 PROJEC  IMPLEMENTATION AND MA G;inx...... ..... 31
A. Project Readiness for Implementation  .....................  31
B. Project Organization and Management ............................ 31
VI.                PROJECI1 BENEh-Fl AND RISKS ...................... .34
A. Project Benefits                .      .       . .............. 34
B. Impact on Women                         ....  34
C Project Risks                     ............ 35
VII.               AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RUECOMs.EN1).                          .     . . ..ONS..  .36
ANNEXES (see also detailed Annex List, page 39)
1 - Comparative Education Data in Selected Countries
2 - Mexico: Educational Statistics
3 - Mexico: Efficiency Indicators
4 - Public Education Expenditures and Financing
3 - Sector Organization
6 - Project Description
7 - Project Costs
8 - Disbursement
9 - Implementation Schedule
10 - Key Monitoring Targets
11 - Key Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 23053



- Hi -
MEgCO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SIMMARY
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiaries:    Secretariat of Education (SEP) and SEP's State Level Education Entities (SCEPs) in the
states of Oaxaca, Chiapas, Guerrero and HidalgoY
Amount:         US$250.0 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
Project         The project would improve the quality and efficiency of primary education,
Objectives:     focusing on four states (Oaxaca, Guerrero, Chiapas and Hidalgo) with the highest
incidence of poverty and lowest education indicators. These objectives would be achieved
through: (i) reducing the high repetition and dropout rates; (ii) raising the level of
cognitive achievement of children; and (iii) strengthening management of the primary
education system, including program design, implementation, resource allocation and
evaluation.
Project         The project consists of two major components: (a) the Educational Services
Description:    Improvement Component (72 percent of the total project cost including contingencies)
would: (i) provide educational materials, books for school libraries and some bilingual
reading books in primary schools, mostly rural; (ii) upgrade skills of underqualified
teachers and provide in-service training for primary school teachers and teacher trainers,
using traditional methods as well as distance education technologies; and (iii) rehabilitate,
replace and construct educational facilities; and (b) the Institutional Strengthening
Component (28 percent of total project cost) would: (i) provide work incentives for
teachers; (ii) improve the supervision system; (iii) strengthen the organization of the
support service delivery system and the management capacity of SEP at the federal and
state levels; (iv) support improvements in the information, monitoring and evaluation
systems; and (v) conduct selected studies to assess the impact of project activities and
help refine future program design. Ihe project implementation would be carried out by
SEP at the central level and by SEP delegations (SCEP) at state level; the latter are
responsible for the actual delivery, operation and management of educational services.
Project         The proposed project would support the Government programs for improving both the
Benefits:       quality and efficiency of primary education, focusing on four states with high incidence of
poverty and low education indicators. The level of cognitive achievement of children as
well as their probability to complete the primary education cycle are expected to increase.
Benefits would thus consist in a higher rate of human capital accumulation contributing
1/ These State Level Education Entities (Servicios Coordinados de Educaci6n Publica) are
delegations from SEP to the states.



I iv I
to -xonomic development. They would also consist in a more equal distribution of
economic opportunities among Mexican children. The project would improve the
efficiency of public resource use by reducing repetition and dropout rates and by
increasing the amount of investments with high social rates of return. Institutiona!
strengthening would contribute to a better aliocation and increased productivity of human
resources within the sector; and to an enhanced capacity to evaluate and monitor
educational policies and programs. Approximately half of the children who would benefit
from the project would be girls. Thus additional benefits are expected, as research has
demonstrated that increasing the level of education of women has a significant positive
effect on the health status and educati3nal attainment of their children and contnbutes to
lower fertility. The impact may be particularly significant for girls from the indigenous
population.
Project Risks:    The main project risks are associated with possible delays in project execution due to: (i)
possible teachers' union opposition to Government policy changes; and (ii) limited
implementation capacity at the state leveL The risk of teachers' union opposition is
difficult to address. However, the improvement of work conditions for teachers and
supervisors that the project would bring about and the recent success of the Government
(and in particular, of the SCEP directors of the states involved) in handling union and
employment issues provides some confidence that this risk can be minimized. The project
attempts to reduce the second risk through: (a) the provision of training and technical
assistance to the states; and (b) close monitoring from the central level. To increase SEP
staff familiarity with Bank procedures, a project launch seminar to cover implementation
aspects would also take place soon after loan effectiveness. The risk of slow
implementation would also be alleviated, on the one hand, by the high priority given by
the Government towards improving economic and social conditions in the poor southern
project states, and on the other hand, by the strong commitment expressed in repeated
occasions by SEP towards the project objectives as well as the dedication and work
already invested in the project preparation.



ESTIMATED PROJECr COSW1
ProLject Comgonents                                         Local  Foreign .Total
--US$ million---
Educational Servloes Improvement Coiuponent                 184.2    34.3  218.5
Educational Materials                                       49.7    11.1  60.8
Teacher Training                                            32.8      6.1  38.9
Educational Facilities                                     101.7    17.1  118.8
Institutional Strengthening Component                        80.3      6.2  86.5
Teacher Work Incentives & Supervision                       67.4      3.3  70.7
Organization/Management                                      7.8      1.2   9.0
Information, Monitoring, Evaluation                          5.1      1.7   6.8
& Studies
TOTAL BASE COST                                             264.5    40.5  305.0
Physical Contingencies                                      12.3     2.1  14.4
Price Contingencies                                         30.8      1.8  32.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                          307.6    44.4  352.0
Financing Plan                                            Local  Foreign   Total
--US$ million-----
Federal Government                                          102.0      -   102.0O'
IBRD                                                        205.6    44.4  250.0
TOTAL                                                       307.6    44.4  352.01
Estimated Disbursements            Bank Fiscal Year
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
-US$ million-------------------
Annual                                        15.0k' 2&0   64.0  80.0  52.0  11.0
Cumulative                                    15.0  43.0  107.0  187.0  239.0  250.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
2/ Includes taxes and duties (estimated at US$39.0 million).
3/ Includes Special Account deposit of US$12.0 million to cover retroactive financing of US$6.0
million for eligible expenditures incurred after March 22, 1991.



Ivi 
DAMI DATASr
A. Geel  Country Data
GNP Per Capita (USS)                                      ZO2O            1989
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                         1,958           1989
Population Estimate (Millions)                              81.1          1990
Urban Population (% of Total)                               72            1989
Population Projection (Millions)
Population for Year 2000                                 103            1989
B. Social Indicators
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                                 6            1989
Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                 2.1          1989
Total Fertility Rate                                         3.4          1989
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)               40            1989
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                            69            1988
Adult Illiteracy Rate (% of persons 15 and over)             9.7          1988
C. Education Data
Enrollment Rates
Preschool (Age 4-5) (%)                                   68            1990
Primary (Net) (Grades 1-6) (%)                            98            1990
Lower Secondary (Grades 7-9) (%)                          57            1990
Education Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending (% of GDP)                 3.8          1989
Federal Education Spending (% of Total                    79.0          1989
Public Education Expenditures)
Federal Education Spending (% of Total                     6.4          1989
Federal Expenditures)
Federal Primary Education Spending (% of                  23.5          1988
Total Federal Education Expenditures)
Total Primary Enrollment (millions)                         14.5          1990
Federal (%)                                               72            1990
State (%)                                                 22            1990
Private (%)                                                6            1990
Primary School and Efficiency Data
Number of Teachers (thousands)                           467            1990
Student/Teacher Ratio                                     31.1          1990
Incomplete Schools (% of all primary schools)             20.0          1990
Unitary Schools (% of all primary schools)                21.0          1990
Repetition Rate (%)                                       10.0          1990
Dropout Rate (%)                                           5.3          1990
Completion Rate (%)                                       55.3          1990
Sources:   World Development Report, 1991; World Tables (Third Edition); Basic Education
Sector Report, World Bank, 1990; The State of the World's Children, 1988; INEGI -
Resultados Preliminares del Censo de 1990, Primer Informe de Gobierno, 1989; and
mission estimates.



I vil-I
DEE;INMTONS
Crude Death Rate               :    Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given
year.
Infant Mortality Rate               The number of deaths of infants under one year of age
in a given year per 1,000 live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth       :    The average number of years an infant would live if
the current as/sex-specific mortality trends prevailing
at the time of birth were to continue.
Total Fertility Rate           :    The average number of children who would be born
alive to a woman during her lifetimne if she were to
pass through her childbearing years conforming to the
age-specific fertflity rates of a given year.
Enrollment Ratio               .   Percentage of children of a given age group enrolled
in schools at a particular level of education.
Unitary Schools                :    Multi-grade schools with a single teacher.
incomplete Schools             .    Primary schools with less than six grades.
Completion Rate                :   The ratio between the number of students exiting
grade six in a given year T and the number of students
entering grade one in year T-6 (close approximation of
the percentage of students of a given cohort who
completed primary school).



1. INTRQDUCI O
1.01      Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high growth, low
inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. This era of economic stability came to an end
when greater Government involvement in the economy Implied growing public expenditures
unmatched by revenues. Inflation and external debt became increasingly important sources of
public finance. Nonetheless, th, pace of Mexico's economic growth remained rapid until August
1982, when rising world interest rates, falling oil prices and refusal by extemal creditors to roll
over Mexico's short term debt put an end to expansionary policies. The country entered a long
period of declining income per capita and major structural reforms which have transformed
Mexico into one of the most open economies in today's world. Those reforms include trade and
financial market liberalization, tax reforms and a significant plan of public enterprise divestiture.
They also include a major retrenchment of public expenditures. Since 1989, real per capita
income growth has been restored, but at a slower pace than during the pre-1982 boom period.
1.02      During the period of rapid economic growth (1950-74), social welfare and standards
of living improved considerably and there is evidence of progress on all social indicators. Illiteracy
declined from 40% to 28% of the population over 14 years of age, the rate of infant mortality fell
from 96 per thousand to 68, and average life erpectancy increased from 41 to 63 years. From
1974 to the onset of the economic crisis, progress in social indicators continued but at a slower
rate. In spite of these achievements, poverty remained widespread and large regional and income
disparities persisted. A 1980 study of changes in standard of living showed that, across states, the
differences were considerable with leading states enjoying a living standard more than 100%
higher than poorer states. With the economic crisis, social problems have become more acute as
the poor, who are largely concentrated in rural areas, have particularly suffered from the
deterioration in real income and the fiscal retrenchment, which affected social services
expenditures more acutely.
1.03      Mexico's potential for growth is still constrained by relatively low levels of human
capital formation: in spite of significant resources spent on education, over half of the population
has less than six years of schooling. Major efforts are thus required to reach a higher rate of
human capital accumulation needed for sustained economic development. In addition, a full
success of the adjustment program hinges on policies that are effective in promoting social
mobility and aimed at a more equal distribution of the benefits of economic development. These
objectives can only be achieved through sustained human capital investments carried out to a
much larger extent and with more efficiency than in the past, in order to reach all segments of the
population.
1.04      After having focused its attention for several years on stabilizing and liberalizing the
economy, the Mexican Government is now giving the highest priority to the development of
human resources in order to help restore sustainable economic growth. It is also making major
efforts to enlarge the basis for growth and reach the poorer segments of the population with
programs aimed at improving the living conditions and earnings capaz -, of the poor. The
proposed project would assist the Government in meeting these goals.



-2 -
IL THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A         Overview of Sectoral Achievements
2.01      Mexico made great strides in increasing both the access to and the quality of public
education between 1950 and 1980. During that period, illiteracy rates dropped from 40% to 18%,
the number of schools tripled, the number of teachers quintupled and school enrollments
increased sevenfold. Progress was evident on all fronts. By 1980, 25% of children aged 4-5
attended preschool, 91% of children aged 6-14 attt ided primary school and the enrollment rate
in lower secondary school reached 48%. Since 1982, further progress was achieved but at a
slower pace. Net enrollment rates at the primary level now reach 98%, and at the lower
secondary level, 57%. The main efforts over the last decade have been concentrated on
expanding preschool coverage: in 1989, 68% of children aged 4-5 had access to preschool
education. In spite of these impressive quantitative achievements, the level of educational
atiainment is still fairly low as the average number of years of schooling varies from 3 or 4 years
in the poorest states to around 8 in the richest, with a national average of 6 years. Furthermore,
several aspects of educational services have worsened due to low levels of efficiency and sharp
decreases in the amount of resources invested in the sector.
B.        Sector Organization
2.02      The formal education system in Mexico includes basic education (preschool, primary
and lower secondary) and post-basic education (upper secondary and university). Of a total
enrollment of 21.4 million students at all levels of basic education in 1989/90, 68% were at the
primary level (grades 1-6). The supply of basic educational services is almost entirely under the
control of the public sector, and within it, federal authorities are predominant: only 6% of
students attend private schools, 22%, state schools while the remaining 72% attend federal
schools. The distribution is identical at the primary level.
2.03      The main institution in the education sector is the Secretariat for Public Education
(SEP). SEP is one of the largest government ministries in Mexico, with some 950,000 employees
spread across the Federal District and all 31 states. Seventy-four percent of SEP employees are
teachers, 25% are general technical and administrative staff, and less than 1% are senior-level
directors and administrators. The Directorate of Planning, Programming and Budgeting
(DGPPYP) is at the core of SEP, formulating annual budgets, tracking educational indicators and
statistics, and overseeing the activities of SEP's state-level entities, the Coordinated Services of
Public Education (SCEPs).
2.04      The SCEPs have been establ;shed by SEP in each of the 31 Mexican states as part of
the gradual decentralization process initiated in 1978. They have become key institutions for the
actual delivery, operation and management of educational services, with a mandate limited to
basic education (preschool, primary and lower secondary educition) and teacher training (both
pre-service and in-service). By directly controlling all federal schools, that is, over two thirds of
total public schools, they constitute the backbone of the decentralization process and their
importance would grow further in the future as decentralization is pursued. (Annex 5 provides a
detailed description of the current sharing of responsibilities between the Secretariat at the
central leveL and the SCEPs). Another important institution in the sector is the National
Teachers Union (SNTE) with nearly one million members, which represents Mexico's teachers
and plays a key role in matters relative to teacher assignment, hiring and firing practices.



2.05      Primary education makes up the bulk of Mexico's educational system, reaching 14.5
million students each year through a network of nearly 81,000 schools and almost half a million
teachers. Primary education is the only compulsory educational leveL Although it has suffered
from the greatest declines in public spending since the onset of the economic crisis in 1982, it has
retained the largest share (23.5%) of total expenditures within the sector (see Basic Data Sheet).
2.06      Public primary education services which correspond to a six year cycle, are provided
in three variations: Renra. bilingualLindigenous and rural community courses (CONAFE).
General primary education represents 94% of total enrollment. Bilingual/Indigenous education,
which accounts for 5% of total enrollment, is specifically designed for the indipwnous population
and is managed by a different directorate (DOEI) which recruits teachers among the indigenous
communities. Over the last ten years, enrollment in these schools has grown steadily at an annual
average rate of 5.5%, an indication of strong demand. The CONAFE community school system,
in which specially trained lower secondary school graduates are sent to teach in schools built and
maintained by the communities themselves, has b--en designed to overcome th problem of
constructing and staffing schools in remote and isolated areas where it is very difficult to attract
and retain teachers and where, given the small size of the community, it would be extremely costly
to establish regular schools. In exchange for one year of teaching, CONAFE teachers receive a
small monthly siipend during the teaching year and a three-year scholarship to pursue higher
secondary studies thereafter. Room and board are provided to the teachers by the communities.
Since its creation in 1971, the CONAFE model has reached rural students who otherwise would
have received no education at all.
C.        Issues in Primary Education
2.07      As mentioned earlier (see para 2.01), primary education enrolment rates have
reached a high level in Mexico. In 1989, the net enrollment rate for the age group 6-12 was
estimated to be 98%. Although this implies that some 300,000 children still do not have access to
primary education and that efforts to reach them need to be strengthened, coverav,e no longer
appears as the principal problem at the primary education level
2.08      The main issues in this subsector are its low internal efficiency ad the low level of
cognitive achievement of children. These problems are particularly acute in 10 Mexican states,
eight of them located in the southern (and generally poorer) part of the country.
2.09      Low internal efficiency is characterized by high repetition (10.2%) and dropout rates
(5.3%) at the national level. These rates are comparable to those in many other Latin-American
countries and indicate that Mexico shares with them the same efficiency problem. The
consequence of low efficiency is a slow flow of students resulting in a waste of scarce resources.
Estimates!', based on 1988 data, suggest that these inefficiency costs amount to nearly 12% of
total expenditures on primary education. True efficiency costs may, in fact, be even higher as
school principals typically underestimate the number of repeaters. The problem is further
aggravated by the wide disparities existing between and within states. For example, repetition
rates vary from 6.5% in the Federal District of Mexico to 17% in Oaxaca. Within the state of
Oaxaca, and in general within southern states, repetition rates as high as 30% can be observed in
many communities (mostly rural). Rates are also significantly higher at the early stage of the
primary cycle, where they can reach 40% to 50%. So is abandonment: every year, nearly 900,000
d/ See S. Carlson: 'Transforming the vicious circle - the costs and savings of school inefficiency in
Mexico: a view from LATHR," No. 8, April 1991.



-4 -
children drop out from school, half a million of them before completing the third grade, that is,
before mastering the basic writing and reading skills. Fnally, disparities are also strong among the
three variants of educational services: general primary schools are the most efficient and
CONAFE schools the least. Indigenous/bilingual schools also indicate relatively inefficient
student flows, mainly during the last half of the primary cycle.
2.10       High repetition and dropou. rates also result in a relatively low proportion of
students completing the full six years of primary education. Available data indicate that only half
of the students entering primary school complete the cycle. Again, wide disparities exist between
states. In Chiapas, less than one third of the students ffiish primary school while in the Federal
District, the proportion is nearly 80%. This implies that opportunities for gaining access to
secondary education also vary greatly between states. Children from southern states which display
the worst efficiency indicators are only half as likely as those from northem states to gain access
to secondary school (1 out of 3 versus 2 out of 3).
2.11       Student cognitive achievement levels are low. Although no systematic nationwide
achievement tests are conducted in Mexico, there are data on periodic testing which suggest that
the quality of learning could be improved substantially. For example, a SEP evaluation in 1988,
which tested students in Spanish, mathematics, and natural and social sciences, indicates that
students' average scores in grades four to six were only slightly above 20 (out of a possible score
of 100).
2.12       Low educational quality can of course be partly attrbuted to socio-economic factors.
The lowest efficiency and quality indicators are observed in states in which the rural population is
predominant, where a large portion of the indian population lives, and where natural geographical
barriers to access and communication tend to be important. In general, low educational
achievement and high incidence of poverty are found to be highly correlated.
2.13       Low efficiency and quality indicators can also be related and determined by a number
of school-related factors. Among these, the most important are:
(i)      deficiencies in teacher training;
(ii)     lack of educational materials and inappropriate curriculum;
(iii)     teacher absenteeism and/or misallocation;
(iv)      weak supervision of teachers;
(v)       lack of evaluation;
(vi)      inadequate physical facilities; and
(vii)      strong financial constraints.
2.14       Deficiencies in Teacher Training. Many teachers seem to lack the theoretical skills
needed to effectively reach children at the basic education level. First, only 30% on average, and
less than 10% in the specific case of indigenous education, have the qualifications currently
required by the Federal and State Governments to be hired, and in-service training programs are
too short, sporadic and of low quality and effectiveness. Second, the lack of teacher training
materials makes it difficult for teachers who do receive training to apply what is learned in the
lectures. Third, teachers in rural communities often cannot attend training programs because they
are offered mainly in urban areas, involving transportation, lodging and opportunity costs few can
afford. Typically, these teachers are those most in need of training, because of inexperience, lack



6 -
limited number of schools. It will stress problem-solving and practical applications. It will reverse
the current practice of grouping several distinct subjects into general areas of study; instead,
subjects will be taught separately in units that are pedagogically articulated to provide increased
continuity between the three levels of basic education. TIhis nev curriculum has been developed
in consultation with a large number of pedagogical experts and teachers working in a variety of
areas and conditions. Once properly tested, it will be gradually implemented in primary schools
starting, in 1992/93, with the lowest grades. Textbook conte-nt will be revised concurrently.
2.19       Teacher Misallocation and Absenteeism. Many teachers refuse to work in isolated
rural communities for obvious reasons: work and living conditions are much barder, access is
more difficult and costly, and rural teachers often spend 1-2 school days each week in transit,
commuting from their homes to remote schools at their own cost. Furthermore, there is no
incentive in terms of additional training opportunities, hardship pay or faster promotion to
encourage teachers to take on more challenging assignments. As a result, teacher absenteeism is
high, and some rural schools remain closed or students lose a good portion of class days each year
(56 days or 30%o of the school year in southem states). Another consequence is the high
turnover rate among rural teachers (for example, 17% have to be replaced every year in the
southern states), resulting in the assignment of entry level teachers, who are the least experienced,
to the most difficult grades and geographical areasY In other words, the children with the fewest
educational opportunities receive the lowest quality instruction. These difficulties are further
compounded by the hiring and teacher assignment practices which give great decision-making
power to the SNTE; the union strongly supports teacher transfer to urban areas, resulting in
overstaffing of many urban schools, while rural schools remain poorly staffed. Union problems
are also tied to the problem of low teacher salaries, which have deteriorated in real terms by
more than 33% since 1983.
2.20       Weak Supervision. Weak teacher supervision refers to both technicalpedagogical
supervision and administrative oversighL It results in poor quality because: (a) teachers receive
little or no feedback on their teaching techniques and effectiveness; (b) there is no follow-up on
school improvement efforts and students achievements; and (c) there is no control over teacher
attendance or effective textbook distnbution. The problem is especially acute in rural schools,
which typically lack a principal, and have the least experienced teachers (i.e., those most in need
of supervision). In those schools, and in particular in the southem states, supervision is deficient,
mainly because of lack of financial resources. The number of schools allocated to each supervisor
is often too high to allow for frequent visits-a problem that is compounded by the fact that many
schools are dispersed and isolated, and access is thus difficult; transportation time to remote
schools, in many cases, exceeds five hours and can reach twelve to twenty hours. Moreover,
adequate transportation means do not always exist; and when they do, their costs (along with the
costs of food and lodging) have to be supported by the supervisors. Additionally, training of
supervisors is inadequate, and support materials to distnbute to teachers are extremely limited.
Other causes of weak supervision are essentially bureaucratic: the appointment of supervisors is
largely controlled by SNTE, which favors seniority and loyalty to the union as selection criteria,
and there is no reward for carryi3g out proper supervision workV
f/ For a description of teacher appointment and reassignment policies and practices, see Annex 5,
Attachment 1.
7/ The supervisor appointment system is fully descnbed in SEP (DGPPYP), "Supervision in
Primary Education (Supervisi6n y asesorfa en educaci6n primaria)," March 1991 (see project
files).



of supervision, and the added difficulty of handling multi-grade teaching'! with children from poor
communities.
2.15       Finally, a major problem also exists in the overall organization of teacher training.
There does not seem to be a good coordination of the more than 100 training programs or
courses, which include both preservice and in-service programs, run by the "Escuelas Normales,"
the National Pedagogical University and other institutions. The 1984 requirement that all new
teachers obtain their "licenciatura" (three years beyond high school, ie., 15 years of schooling) has
created much confusion. Curricula and instructor skills in the Escuelas Normales" have not yet
been adapted to the new requirements. The disorganization has been compounded further by
declining teacher trainee enrollments (10% average annual declines since 1981) which have not
been accompanied by decreased expenditures or reduced teacher trainers. The results are
increasingly high unit costs for teacher training, an excessively high trainee-trainer ratio (9:1), and
general inefficiency in resource allocation.
2.16       Lack of Educational Materials and Inappropriate Curriculum. Mexican students
benefit from an impressive, large-scale national textbook production system (over 70 million books
are produced each year), which was initiated in 1959 and (theoretically) provides a full set of free
textbooks to all primary students. However, serious problems remain. At present there is no
formal, transparent system for textbook distnbution at the state-level. In many areas, particularly
rural regions, students never receive their textbooks, or if they do they receive only some of them
and/or receive them one to seven months after the school year begins. The problem is closely
linked to weak supervision and to problems of access to rural and remote areas, in particular to
the lack of transportation means and/or absence of financing for a distnbution system. It also
seems to have been exacerbated by conflicts between SEP and the National Teacher's Union
(SNTE) which has been partly controlling the textbook distnrbution. Obviously, the students are
the real victins of these shortcomings. As a consequence, because textbooks are the primary, and
often the only didactic materials students and teachers have available, faulty distribution means
reduced educational quality as well as wasted time and money spent on production.
2.17       Besides the textbooks there are few educational materials available to students and
teachers. Materials such as library books, maps, models, posters, school supplies, audio-visual
aides and basic equipment for the natural sciences have proved to be useful to enrich,
supplement, and apply the lessons provided in the textbook; they provide a variety of learning
activities which are mutually reinforcing, an important element of a quality educational program.
Furthermore, these materials typically belong to the school (and not the student, as is the case
with textbooks), and so can benefit students who have 1-,st their textbooks and/or have never
received them. The lack of school library books is especially serious, as few rural Mexican
schoolchildren have access to any reading material besides their textbooks. This retards children's
progress in developing reading and writing skills. The absence of additional edlucatioaal materials
is particularly serious among indigenous children who often do not speak Spanish, usually have
less qualified teachers and show the worst education indicators. The completion rate of these
children for primary schooling is just 25% (compared to 56% nationwide) and their repetition
rates is 24%, almost two and half times the national average (Annex 3, figure 1).
2.18       There is general consensus that the present primary school curriculum is
inappropriate. A new curriculum has already been prepared and is being currently tested in a
./ Multi-grade teaching is still prevalent in Mexican primary schools. For example, unitary schools
(multi-grade schools with only one teacher) comprise 21% of primary schools.



2.21      Lack of Evaluation. SEP and its General Directorate for Evaluation (DGEIR) have
limited resources or capacity to monitor and evaluate academic achievement and standards of
teaching across Mexico's educational system. Recently, the DOEIR lost much of its staff due to
salary cuts, and many of those who remain lack sufficient training and skills. Furthermore, what
evaluation research is conducted is typically limited in terms of sample coverage, periodicity,
scope, depth of analysis and accessibility. Compounding the problem, there is practicalty no
assessment capacity at the state level. The result is an educational system in which the most
productive investments and reforms are difficult to determine due to a lack of understanding of
the impact of previous investments.
2.22      Inadeguate Phvsical Facilities. In 1989 the number of classrooms needing to be built
or repaired in Mexico was close to 57,000. The current classroom shortage (relative to current
enrollments) is estimated at nearly 3,700 at the preschool level, almost 29,000 at the primary level,
and approximately 6,000 at the secondary level. While multi-shift operations could mitigate this
shortage to a certain extent, such programs have proved difficult to implement in rural areas,
where the shortage is most pronounced. Despite these deficits, real primary education
infrastructure expenditures have declined at an average annual rate of 183%, and in 1987 they
were just 17% of their 1979 level. In addition, many classrooms lack sufficient desks, chairs and
other furniture and equipment, and schools often have no funds for basic classroom operation and
maintenance. In rural areas it is common to find classrooms with crumbling walls, weak or
nonexistent lighting, or sometimes just a roof set over four columns. Community participation via
Parents Associations is important for school maintenance, but in many areas these groups are
weak or nonexistent.
2.23      Strone Financial Constraints. Between 1970-1982, federal spending for the education
sector grew in real terms at an average annual rate of 14.1%, double the growth rate of GNP.
Following the onset of the economic crisis in 1982, however, federal spending for education
decreased in real terms at an average annual rate of 2.1%, four times faster than the decline in
GNP and almost three times faster than the decline in overal public spending. By 1988 the
federal education budget represented just 6.3% of overall federal public spending, down from
17.8% in 1976, and as a percentage of GDP total education spending declined from 5.3% in
1980/81 to 3.5% in 1988/89 (a 32% decrease). Given that this decline occurred while total
enrollments, teaching staff and the number of schools were all increasing, this resulted in drastic
reductions in real per pupil expenditures. In fact, these cuts have been more severe than those in
other Latin American countries (Costa Rica, Chile and Venezuela) enacting fiscal austerity
measures. Lastly, the balance of spending between recurrent and investment expenditures has
changed. Almost 95% of federal spending now goes to recurrent costs (personnel and operating
costs), up from 81% in 1970.
2.24      Public educational spending bI state governments has also declined in real terms, at
an average annual rate of 11.6% between 1982-1987. It is clear that the decentralization program
which began in the early 1980s has not yet brought about an increase in the responsibility and
participation of the states in education financing. Although private spending is shown to have
increased, it remains a marginal source of financing in the sector (see Annex 4, Table 1).
2.25      By educational level, primary education expenditures have suffered the most of all.
Between 1979 and 1988 federal spending for primary education decreased in real terms at an
average annual rate of 6.3%, while enrollments increased by 3.9%. In constant 1980 pesos, actual
spending per pupil decreased by 46.5% between 1981 and 1988. Lower secondary education has
also suffered; between 1979 and 1988 real expenditures declined at an average annual rate of



-8-
2.1%, while enrollments increased at an average annual rate of 5%. This translated into a decline
in real spending per pupil of 42.7%. Meanwhile, real expenditures for preschool education,
special education, upper secondary and post-graduate education all increased. Viewed as a
whole, basic education (preschool, primary and lower secondary) expenditures decreased from
50% of total education spending in 1982 to 45.8%, while spending for upper secondary and
university education increased from 29% to 38.5% of total spending. The fact that pupils at the
basic education level make up approximately 85% of all Mexican students (21.4 million in 1989)
indicates both the severity and breadth of the cutbacks in education expenditures.
2.26      Compared to many other Latin American countries (e.g. Chile, Costa Rica,
Venezuela), Mexico has traditionally maintained low levels of education spending in relation to
GDP, particularly in terms of per pupil spending on primary education. For example, Mexico's
recurrent expenditures per primary student as a percentage of GNP per capita have averaged
4.5% between 1965 and 1985 while, in comparison, those in Chile, Costa Rica and Brazil have
averaged 8.8%, 12.4% and 8.1%, respectively. Furthermore, there has been a long-term and
increasing bias (as indicated by trends in spending) toward higher education, coupled with a
recent emphasis on expanding preschool opportunities. Between 1983 and 1988, real per student
spending for higher education increased an average of more than 15% per year, and averaged 15
times per pupil spending for basic education in 1988, while basic education spending declined at
an average rate of 3% per year. Moreover, the fiscal austerity measures in Mexico since 1983
have placed priority on debt service payments and Mexico's productive sectors (industry and
agriculture), such that the share of federal budget allocations to the education sector decreased.
In summary, an education budget that was relatively small prior to the 1982 economic crisis has
shrunk, and within the sector, preschool higher and post-graduate education have received
preferential treatment over the primary level, although research has repeatedly shown that
investment in primary education has a higher rate of return.
D.        Government Strategy for the Education Sector
2.27      The Education Modernization Program 1989-94 (PME) was announced by President
Salinas de Gortari in October 1989. The PME expands on the National Development Plan 1989-
94, which reflects the Government's strong commitment to building up Mexico's human capitaL
The PME has two overriding objectives: (i) to improve the quality of the educational system,
with special emphasis on basic education; and (ii) to raise the level of schooling throughout the
population. Additional objectives are: (iii) to strengthen community participation in all aspects of
the sector; and (iv) to gradually pursue the decentralization of the educational system and adjust
the distribution of educational functions to better serve the diverse. interests of society and needs
for modernization.
2.28      More specifically, preschool and primary education coverage and quality are to
improve through provision of educational materials, special support for community and bilingual
schools, school construction and rehabilitation and new distance education programs. Incomplete
and unitary primary schools are to be upgraded to offer all grades with more teachers. At the
lower secondary level (grades 7-9), increased emphasis is given to science and technology,
stressing research, critical analysis, experimentation and innovation. In addition, a new curriculum
is being developed, structured according to specific subject matters (geography, biology, chemistry,
etc.) as opposed to areas of knowledge (social science, science, mathematics and language).
/I Figure for Brazil is an average from 1975-1985, not 1965-1985.



-9-
2.29      To further improve school efficiency and the quality of instruction, the Government
plans to reorganize and integrate teacher training institutions, offering revised curricula and
stressing methodologies which impart skills and knowledge for analysis and creativity. New in-
service programs are planned for all of the country's approximately one million teachers, and
innovative distance training programs should increase access of rural teachers to training
opportunities. Also included on the Government's agenda are the gradual improvement of work
conditions of teachers and supervisors and the gradual introduction of incentive systems to reward
the most efficient teachers or those who take on chaDlenging tasks. A first step has already been
taken by providing a significant increase (25%) in teachers' salaries in May 1991.
2.30      Within this overall strategy designed to cover the whole country, priority attention is
being given to its implementation in the 14 states that display educational indicators below
national average. The objective of this special regional emphasis is to compensate for the lack of
private spending on education by families and communities due to higher incidence of poverty in
those states, and thus to achieve greater equity in the distribution of opportunities at the national
level.
2.31      Administratively, SEP also plans to continue its gradual process of decentralization,
including ultimately not only the transfer of operational and technical responsibility to state-level
education authorities, but also of limited financial autonomy (Annex 5 describes the current state
of decentralization.) Meanwhile, planning, budgeting, curriculum design, norm setting,
supervision, evaluation and teacher training will remain under federal controL In particular, the
Government recognizes the need to upgrade its supervision and evaluation capabilities, and has
proposed a National Evaluation System, covering all aspects of the education sector. Fmally, the
Government is expanding its activities in promoting community participation, especially for school
supplies, construction and maintenance. Viewed in its entirety, the Government program as
presented in the PME is well-targeted, ambitious, and designed to improve both the quality of and
access to basic education. Through its implementation, it should also contribute to redressing the
imbalances in current resource allocation within the sector.
E         Bank Role and Experience in the Education Sector
2.32      The nrimary focus of Bank assistance to the sector in the past has been to help the
Government increase workers' productivity so as to meet manpower requirements at the middle
occupational leveL The emphasis has been on technical training, reducing the shortages of skilled
technicians, long considered as a major constraint to industrial growth. The Bank has financed
three training projects worth a total of US$251 million. Through the First and Second Technical
Training Projects (CONALEP I, Loan 2042-ME of 1981, and CONALEP II, Loan 2559-ME of
1984) a nationwide system of 252 vocational training centers, with an enrollment of approximately
200,000 students, has been built, equipped and fumished. Through the 1987 Manpower Training
Project (Loan 2876-ME) additional training programs (pre-service and in-service training as well
as retraining for the unemployed) were supported. These projects have met their targets, and
there have been no serious implementation problems. A Third Technical Training Project
(CONALEP m, Loan 3358-ME) has just been approved by the Board of Directors (June 1991),
with the objectives of improving and expanding CONALEP's vocational training, and its
responsiveness and links to the labor market.
2.33      In addition to these manpower training projects, the Bank provided (following the
1985 earthquake) US$55 million for reconstruction, rehabilitation and reinforcement of public
schools in five states (Colima, Guerrero, Michoacan, Chiapas and Oaxaca) and the City of Mexico



- 10-
(Loan 2665-ME of 1986, Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project). Under the
1991 Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME), the Bank is also
supporting efforts to increase the access of poor and indigenous populations to basic
infrastructure and social services, financing in particular the construction and rehabilitation of
public primary and secondary schools in four of the poorest Mexican states.
2.34      The Bank's role in the sector, however, has remained marginal in the sense that, with
the exception of the above-described support to social infrastructure, it has not addressed the
principal issues related to the main subsector, primary education. Public primary education
enrollment constitutes 60% of total public enrollment and covers nearly 14 milion students. It
also accounts for the largest segment (23.5%) of federal education expenditures. It is the core of
Mexico's educational system and the basis of human capital formation. With recent important
changes in Government policies in the subsector, the Bank now has an opportunity to make an
important contnbution to human resources development, in particular by addressing the critical
issue of diminishing resources to primary education.
2.35      Lessons Learned. The experience acquired by the Bank in the training subsector and
in other poverty-related areas does not provide for the drawing of specific lessons applicable to
the primary education subsector. However, the collaborative relationship developed between the
Bank and NAFIN during the implementation of the above mentioned completed and ongoing
projects would be an important asset for the implementation of the proposed project.
F.        Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.36      Reflecting the success of the economic adjustment program in recent years, the
Bank's assistance strategy for Mexico is gradually shifting in emphasis from adjustment lending to
investment lending geared towards assisting sustained growth and poverty alleviation programs. In
support of growth, the Bank aims to assist the Government in shifting sector policies in order to
improve the efficiency of public resource allocation. In support of poverty alleviation programs,
the Bank's strategy would assist the Government's efforts in expanding the coverage of targeted
social programs, while improving institutional capacity and the efficiency and equity of such
programs. The proposed project is an integral part of this strategy as it would assist increased
investments in human beings and social infrastructure necessary for growth, and would be targeted
to the poor. By addressing the basic educational needs of the poor in the most disadvantaged
states in Mexico, it would also complement actions undertaken in the context of the 1991 Basic
Health Care Project (Loan 3272-ME), the 1990 Low Income Housing Project (Loan 3140-ME),
and the 1991 Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME); and would
be supplemented by the proposed Initial Education Project (under preparation) which would
emphasize early childhood development as an effective means to impiove children's readiness for
learning. The proposed project would thus contribute to a more equitable distnrbution of
opportunities for welfare gains within the population. Moreover, by focusing on primary
education, the project would assist tb:x Mexican Government in improving the efficiency of
educational expenditures which account for a large share of government spending and have the
highest rate of return. Fnally, it would be the first time that the Mexican Government opens up
the basic education sector for assistance from external aid agencies.



- 11- 
ml. THE PROJECT
A.        Project Objectives
3.01      The objective of the project is to assist the Government of Mexico in improving the
quality and efficiency of primary education, focusing on four Mexican states (Oaxaca, Guerrero,
Chiapas and Hidalgo) with the highest incidence of poverty and low education indicators. These
objectives, considered as being of the highest priority within the Government's Education
Modernization Program, would be achieved through: (i) reducing the high repetition and dropout
rates; (ii) raising the level of cognitive achievement of chfldren; and (iii) strengthening
management of the primary education system, including program design and implementation,
monitoring and evaluation system.
B.        Project Areas and Target Population
3.02      The four project states comprise 13.2% of the total Mexican population but a much
higher proportion of those living in poverty. Sixty-five percent of the population of the four
states (about 7 million persons) is estimated to live below the poverty line (below one minimum
wage, equivalent to about US$100 per month in the project states); they account for one third of
the nation's absolute poor. In addition, these states include nearly 40%o of the total indigenous
population (native ethnic groups with distinct language and culture), many of whom live in
remote, isolated villages.
3.03      The high incidence of poverty which can be associated with poor health and
nutrition, restricted access to land and labor markets, and inadequate economic infrastructure
(roads, power lines, etc.), is also highly correlated with an extremely low education leveL The
average number of years of schooling in the four project states is only 4.4 years, with illiteracy
estimated at 16%. Viewed together, these states have an average primary school completion rate
of 39%, with dropout averaging 9.9%. Repetition rates, as reported by school principals, average
14.7%; however, more precise estimates (see Annex 3, Table 2) indicate that true repetition rates
are significantly higher, ranging, in particular, from 28% to 53% in the first grade. As a result,
inefficiency costs have been estimated to amount to about 31% of total spending on primary
education in those states, and about one-fourth of total inefficiency costs measured at the national
level. Significant resource savings would thus be gained by improving the efficiency of primary
education in this area.
3.04      In all four states, the educational system is predominantly public (only 1.4% of
schools are private). The control of public schools, however, differs slightly. In Oaxaca and
Hidalgo, all public primary schools are managed and operated by federal authorities through
SEP's delegations (SCEPs), while in Chiapas and Guerrero, both federal and state systems coexist,
although the latter is still small and relatively concentrated around urban areas. For the whole
project area, the federal system is thus predominant (92% of public schools) and even more so in
rural areas. Indigenous schools and CONAFE community courses, in particular, are ali federal
and only operate in rural areas. It is also worth mentioning that although state and federal
schools are run by different entities, the Federal Government has the prerogative to provide
direct support to state schools and to coordinate actions taken under both educational systems
(Ley Federal de Educaci6n, Art. 25-29).



-12 -
3.05       The project is directed towards all public (federal and state) primary schools,
students, teachers and supervisors in the four states. Several of its interventions, however, would
be specifically targeted towards rural areas because it is in these areas that the problems of low
quality and poor efficiency are most acute. It is also in these areas that the degree of deprivation
and poverty and the lack of family financial support are greatest.
3.06       Table 3.1 below provides some summary statistics of the educational system and
population to be covered at the initial stage of the project (detailed statistics by state and by
school modality are presented in Annex 2). The total number of beneficiaries from the project
would ultimately be significantly higher as new children cohorts (of almost half a million each)
enter the school system every year.
Table 3.1: EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM AND TARGET POPULATION
AT INITLAL STAGE OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (1991)
SCHOOLS         STUDENTS         TEACHERS        SUPERVISORS
(thousands)      (thousands)      (thousands)
Rural   Urban    Rural    Urban   Rural   Urban    Rural   Urban
TOTAL        13.1    2.6   1,340    838        46      25     1,196    104
FEDERAL      12.2    2.0   1,246    680        43     21      1,136     67
STATE         0.8    1.2      95    115         3      4         60    37
C.         Project Components
3.07       The project consists of two major components:
(a) The Educational Services Improvement Component (72 percent of the total
cost including contingencies) would improve the availability and quality of
educational services for the primary school students. It would: (i) provide
educational materials, books for school libraries and some bilingual reading
books in primary schools, mostly rural; (ii) upgrade skills of underqualified
teachers and provide in-service training for primary school teachers and
teacher trainers, using traditional methods as well as distance education
technologies; and (iii) rehabilitate, replace and construct educational facilities;
and
(b)  The Institutional Strengthening Component (28 percent of total cost including
contingencies) would further improve the efficiency of the primary education
sector. It would: (i) provide work incentives for teachers; (ii) improve the
supervision system; (iii) strengthen the organization of the support service
delivery system and management capacity of SEP at the federal and state
levels; (iv) support improvements in the information, monitoring and
evaluation systems; and (v) conduct selected studies to assess the impact of
project activities and help refine future program design.



- 13 -
D.        Project Description
1.   Educational Services Improvement Component
3.08      Under the Educational Services Improvement component (US$255 million including
contingencies) the project would provide the required resources to increase the availability and
quality of educational inputs in order to improve student achievement and increase student
retention and promotion rates.
a.   Provision of Educational Materials.
3.09      The project would provide three types of educational materials: (i) didactic
materials, such as maps, geometric blocks, word games, posters, transparencies and projectors; (ii)
library books, which would cover all six grades of primary school, and include pedagogical material
for teachers and a variety of reading material, which would also be of interest to the community
at large; and (iii) bilingual reading books for about 300,000 indigenous primary schoolchildren
speaking the seven main indigenous languages in the four project states. These materials, which
are known to enhance student achievement, would complement the new curriculum, which has
been revised this year with the objective of providing increased continuity between preschool,
primary and secondary levels of education. They would also complement the long-established
National Textbook Program, in which each student is to be provided at no charge a full set of
textbooks for the grade in which that student is enrolled (improved distribution of these textbooks
would be addressed in the project; see paras. 3.47 and 3.48).
(i) Didactic Materials
3.10      Didactic materials would be provided to all federal and state r-ral schools (about
13,100) in two different packages: (a) a package containing a set of maps, laminated posters, a
slide projector, etc., which would be distributed to each school; and (b) a package containing
items such as dictionaries, rulers, math games, etc., which would be distributed to each class.
Packages also include school supplies, such as notebooks, pencils, etc. On average, each child
would receive about $7 worth of materials per year. However, the provision of materials would
be targeted according to the degree of deprivation and poverty in the area to compensate for
differences in support from parents' associations. Children in extremely isolated rural schools and
impoverished areas showing the lowest educational indicaturs-namely, children in schools with
just one or two teachers for all six grades, and in indigenous and CONAFE schools (such students
represent 42 percent of rural school enrollment in the project states)-are the highest priority for
improving educational services, and therefore would receive almost three times as much
educational material (in terms of value) than other rural schoolchildren. Packages of materials
(based on the number of teachers per school) would be distnbuted by school supervisors at the
same time as textbooks are distributed, and would benefit from the same improved distribution
system (see para. 3.47 and 3.48). The precise content of these packages would be readjusted,
based on a survey of school needs for educational materials currently underway with grant
financing provided by the Government of Japan and to be completed by November 30, 1991.
Teachers would also receive training in the use and application of these materials as part of the
in-service training to be provided by the project (see para. 3.14). Responsibility for this
component would rest with the directorates managing general primary education and indigenous
education (DGEP and DGEI, respectively) and CONAFE. Coordination would be ensured
through the project coordination units at the central and state levels. At negotiations. the
Government provided assurances that the results of the survey on the needs for didactic materials



- 14-
for each school currently underway would be fumished to the Bank for review no later than
November 30. 1991 and would be used to adjust the precise content of the didactic materials
packages (see pam. 7.01 (a)).
(ii) Library Books
3.11       Library books would be provided to rural and urban public schools in the four
project states under the national lbrary books program (Proerama de Rincones de Lectura),
which has been in operation since 1986 on a small scale and in some urban areas; upon the
request of parents' associations, approximately one third of urban schools have voluntarily
adhered to the program. This program is to be extended to the whole country, with special
emphasis on rural and indigenous schools. T1here would be one month of radio advertising to
encourage schools to form a library committee made up of a teacher, a parent and a student, who
would then become contractually responsible for establishing and maintaining the classroom
libraries.
3.12      A set of 152 books (90 for students and the remainder for teachers and parents),
already selected by a national library book commission, would be distributed to schools that sign
up for the program. The package would also include a cassette for training of teachers and
students in the use and upkeep of classroom libraries. During the first year of the project, books
would be provided to indigenous schools and rural schools with 1-5 teachers; in later years
coverage would increase to urban schools and larger rural schools. In addition, all schools that
later wish to expand their small libraries would be able to purchase additional sets of books at
cost. The Mexican postal system, through a contract with SEP, would deliver the packages of
books to post offices close to the target communities. The school library committee would ensure
that the book packages reach the school. Over its life, the project would provide about 2.5
million library books at an average unit cost of US$1.25 per book, bookcases, library cards and
audio cassettes for training. It would also cover the cost of packaging and mailing. Responsibility
for this program would rest with the Educational Publications Unit (EPU) of SEP.
(iii) Bilingual Reading Books
3.13      As stated in para. 3.09, bilingual reading books accompanied by teacher guides and
workbooks would be produced in the seven most prevalent indigenous languages in the four
project states. These seven languages are spoken by approximately 60 percent of all indigenous
primary schoolchildren in Mexico. Overall responstbility for this component would rest with the
General Directorate of Indigenous Education (DGEI). Book production would first require
extensive fieldwork by ethnolinguists to revise the existing fist and second grade prototype
reading books so that they cover a wider range of dialects. After revision and validation in the
field, these books would be redesigned using desktop publishing capabilities, which would be
provided, along with training in their use, under the project. Subsequently, reading books for
grades 3 and 4 would also be developed and produced by the project. These books would be
bilingual, allowing students to develop reading and writing skills in both Spanish and the
indigenous language. This strategy of bilingual education in early grades reflects the
Government's policy aimed at reducing repetition and dropoust rates and helping indigenous-
language speaking students make the transition to Spanish instruction. Over the four years of the
project, approximately 1,100,000 bilingual reading books, workbooks and teacher guides would be
produced. In addition, indigenous teachers would receive instruction in the use of these reading
books in the classroom, as part of the in-service training to be provided under the project (see
panL 3.16). Besides being part of the overall project evaluation, the implementation of the



- 15 -
program would be accompanied by a specific study that would evaluate the degree of utilization of
the materials, the degree of acceptance by children, teachers and communities, and the program's
impact on children's achievement (see para. 3.55).
b.   Teacher Training.
3.14      The project would support an extensive training program aimed at upgrading skills of
teachers, school principals and supervisors. The main objective is to increase teachers' subject
matter knowledge, their command of instructional techniques, and their ability to handle
multigrade teaching, monitor and evaluate student performance. A second objective is to improve
the technical support capacity of school principals and supervisors so th'it they can be more
effective in assisting teachc. . To complement these activities, the project would also support a
training program aimed at raising the quality of pre-service training and directed to current
professors in teacher training institutes.
3.15      The project would provide three types of training activities, as explained below (and
in more detail in Annex 6, Aetachment 1): (i) direct in-person instruction during summer months;
(ii) semi-direct (or semi-schooled) courses, one course per semester; and (iii) distance training
activities via radio, audiocassettes, videocassettes, television, and pamphlets during the school year.
These activities would complement an optional certification program begun in 1990 through which
primary school teachers have the opportunity to earn higher level degrees. The overali strategy is
to reach all teachers in the four states by the end of the project by providing them access to
several training sessions throughout the year, offered in these various formats. Level of
attendance and intensity of training received, however, is expected to vary according to school
modality (again, see below and in Annex 6, Attachment 1). Special attention would be given to
those with low levels of formal general education, little teaching experience, and who, typically,
are working in rural and isolated areas.
(i) Direct In-Person Instruction
3.16      Direct in-person instruction would be offered in four different modalities adapted to
the specific conditions and needs of the personnel belonging to the various school types: (a)
training for general primarv teachers, principals and supervisors working in rural areas (31,852);
(b) similar but modified training for teachers and administrators working in urban zones (24,531);
(c) training for indigenous teachers, principals and supervisors, providing bilingual instruction
(13,353); and (d) training for the approximately 1,200 CON,E community instructors working in
extremely isolated and poor areas. Training would be provided during one-week intensive (40-
hour) courses provided over the summer, except for CONAFE instructors who, because of their
lack of experience and low level of qualifications, are required to attend ten weeks of intensive
training immediately after recruitment.
(ii) Semi-Direct (Semester-long) Training
3.17      A second type of training would be provided to rural and urban general primary
teachers, in which teachers would attend semi-monthly seminar/workshops (four hours each) on
Saturdays or on pay days. These seminar/workshops would be provided in tandem with
anthologies, workbooks, self-learning guides and radio programs that teachers would follow at
home on a daily basis in between the seminar/workshops. Four month-long modules would be
presented for each course, with the core course on basic literacy and numeracy teaching
techniques repeated each year during the first semester. The second semester course would vary



- 16-
each year and would focus on the natural and social sciences, curriculum planning, child
development and student evaluation. The semi-direct approach would provide greater continuity
and in-depth treatment of subjects than would be possible with short, intensive courses.
3.18      A similar semi-direct in-service training program would be offered to professors
(approxmately 860) in the following teacher training institutions: "Normal" schools, in-service
training centers (CAM) and branches of the National Pedagogic University (UPN). This program
would consist of six different semi-schooled, three month training courses, accompanied by
monthly seminars and workshops. It would aim at upgrading the skills of these professors and at
raising the quality of pre-scrvice training and would complement efforts currently underway to
modify the curricula of teacher training institutions (see parm 2.15). Finally, CONAFE irstructors
would receive monthly in-service training throughout the school year.
3.19      The sites used for the training sessions would vary according to the modality.
Indigenous teachers, C(ONAFE instructors and professors from teacher training institutions would
use existing facilities (about 42) operated by their respective General Directorates. For the
general primary teachers, who are geographically dispersed and comprise the largest group, it was
found to be more cost-effective to organize the sessions at the level of the supervision zone, using
existing primary school facilities. Attendance would be compulsory for both CONAFE instructors
and professors from teacher training institutions, but voluntary for general primary and indigenous
teachers (legislation prevents SEP from obliging teachers to attend training sessions on non-
working days). Incentives, however, would be offered in the form of per diems and promotion
points (proportional to the length of the training period and conditional upon a positive
evaluation at the end of training) (see Annex 6, Attachment 1 for additional details). At
negotiations. the Government submitted a letter, dated Augut 8. 1991. confirming agreements
reached at appraisal regardi.:g the mechanisms to be used to monitor teacher attendance to
tra'nn sesinsand distribute incentives (per diems and promotion points) (stee  a  7.01 Mb).
3.20      For all training modalities, the project would support: (i) the planning and
organization of the program; (ii) the preparation of course materials; (iii) the selection and
training of course instructors and of technical groups (who would design and manage the courses);
(iv) the actual provision of instruction, including compensations to course instructors and per
diems to cover transport (and in some cases, room and board) expenses for both trainers and
trainees; and (v) program supervision and evaluation. In the case of indigenous training, it would
also finance refurbishing of the 16 training centers of the DGEI.
3.21      The whole program would be managed at the federal and state levels by the General
Directorate corresponding to each school type (DGEP for primary education, DGEI for
indigenous education, CONAFE for community schools, and CONACEN for teacher trainers) as
weli as by small technical groups established both at the central and state level (composed of
specialists coming both from within SEP and from other Mexican higher education institutions
specialized in teacher training). This management structure has been established. The central
technical groups would be responsible for the overall planning of the program, for training of the
state technical groups, for defining with them the training modules and for preparing, testing and
producing the course materials. The state technical groups would be responsible for selecting and
training the instructors, implementing and supervising the program, and for monitoring teachers'
progress with support from the central level. Trainers would be selected among the most
qualified and experienced teachers and supervisors as well as among the personnel of teacher
training institutions. (Annex 6, Attachment 1 provides additional details on the organization of
the program.)



- 17-
3.22      Implementation would be gradual, with focus during the first year of the project on
the constitution of technical support groups and on the preparation of course materials. The
implementation pace would be revised, if needed, during the annual and mid-term project reviews
(see para. 5.14 and 5.16). At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that a detailed
description of the teacher training courses (consisting of course objectives, subject matter, time
allocation and instructional techniques) and training materials would be submitted to the Bank.
for revO,w,v June 30. 1992 (St- 02Q1m ( )).
(iii) Distance Education Technologies
3.23      The project would support the use of distance education technologies to complement
in-person instruction. The objective is to improve the effectiveness of training by: (a) ensuring a
common level of up-to-date information and knowledge to ali teachers; (b) allowing continuous,
year-round access to training materials; and (c) providing additional support to teachers for
classroom instruction.
3.24      To ensure a common level of knowledge and information to all teachers, the project
would support the production and duplication of 60 video training programs accompanied by
printed guidelines for both trainers and trainees. These materidls would be used, in conjunction
with the in-person instruction programs described above, in the most intensively used training
centers which would be equipped with VCRs and TV monitors. It is estimated that over 35,000
teachers would benefit from these programs over the life of the project (see Annec 6, Attachment
1 for a detailed description of the program, including contents and schedule).
3.25      To provide year-round access to training materials and additional support during
teaching activities, the project would also provide, over the project life, 270 audioprograms
(cassettes with instructional manuals) to be used in the classroom. In addition, 540 radio
programs would be aired (approximately one 15-minute program per school day) via open
broadcast, making use of free transmission time guaranteed by law to the Government by both
private and public radio stations. Both instruments would cover the areas of curriculum
development, instructional methods and evaluation. These programs are expected to receive wide
acceptance as they would build on successful past experiments (audioprimaria) and because radio
is widely used over the whole project area. All primary schools would be equipped with radio
cassettes and beneficiaries would be all primary teachers as well as about three million children
over the life of the project.
3.26      To reinforce indigenous teachers' skills in the use of bilingual reading books, an
additional production of radio programs (40 programs per language) would be provided under the
project. The DGEI would be responsible for the definition of their contents and the INI would
be in charge of production and broadcast, making use of its stations which currently serve the
indian populations of the four states.
3.27      The project would also support two experimental activities: (i) a pilot in-school TV
educational program; and (ii) the production of a radio serial to promote community participation
in educational activities. The TV pilot project would explore the possibilities of using an
extensive mass media infrastructure and the many years of Mexican experience in the area
(telesecundaria) to produce and transmit educational programs to provide additional support to
teachers for classroom instruction. The scope of the project would be modest, concentrating on
the state of Oaxaca where a local public TV and radio station operates successfully. The project
would support the production of materials and the provision of TV receivers in 300 schools.



- 18-
Production would be carried out jointly by the local state TV (channel 8) and UTE (the
educational television unit of SEP), and would be followed by an evaluation of the impact and
cost-effectiveness of these experimental programs (see para. 355). The radio serial, which would
be accompanied by posters and written promotional materiaL would be designed to encourage
family and community participation in school-related activities and tasks (school maintenance and
repairs, support to teachers and administrators, parents' associations, community and family life,
etc.). The serial would be transmitted on week-ends over the whole project area, making use of
available free time guaranteed by law and would also serve as a testing ground enabling
experimentation with and refining of contents and corresponding evaluation.
3.28      Responsibility for planning and organizing the distance education program would rest
with the director of the Educational Television Unit (UTE) of SEP, who has appointed a general
coordinator and a technical committee composed of representatives from the three different
primary education modalities (DGEP, DGEI and CONAFE). This technical committee, assisted
with specialists contracted under the project, would define the detailed contents of both radio and
video programs. A core module common to all modalities would be designed, and supplemented
by additional programs corresponding to the specific needs of each of them. These modules
would complement in a cost-effective manner the formal training program described above and in
Annex 6, Attachment 1. Implementation of the program would be gradual with focus on the first
year of the project on the organization and design of the program contents. Production would
take place over the following three years. At negotiations. the Government provided assurances
that thy detailed descriptions of all distance education programs, as well as their transmission
schedule in the case of orograms to be broadcas.  uld be presented to the Bank. for approval.
by April 30. 1992: and submitted evidence, satisfactory to the Bank. that Radio-Television de
Vaxaca has_the nec:ssary human and physical reso'grces for the development and application of
pilot educational ,rograms (see Larn. 7.01 (d!!- As a condition for disbursement. the Government
would present a detailed proposal. satisfactory to thle Bank. for the work to be done for the pilot
programs by Radio-Television de Oaxaca. snecify;iwg the implementation schedule (see para. 7.03
1.
c. Improvement and Expansi- i of Educational Facilities.
3.29      The project would provide financing for tbe rehabilitation, expansion, maintenance
and equipment of both federal and state public school  cilities, and, in the case of expansion, for
incremental staff. These actions would complement, ana would be carried out in close
coordination with, those financed by the Government's Solidaridad Program and supported under
the Decentralization and Regional Development project, which also aims to improve social
infrastructure in these four states (see para. 331).
3.30       The total civil works requirements were estimated based on: (a) the need to
improve the existing school facilities replacing rented, borrowed or dilapidated classrooms and
support facilities, or those which do not conform to functional, pedagogical or architectural
standards; (b) the determination of classrooms in need of repairs; (c) the need to expand schools
to accommodate current enrollments (up to six classrooms if, on a one-shift system, the school has
at least 25 students per classroom, and to more than six classrooms if, on a double-shift system, it
has more than 45 students per classroom); (d) the need to provide structural reinforcement in
highly seismic areas; and (e) the need to cover expanded enrollment expected to occur in
indigenous areas and as a result of increased completion rates. Because of the sharp decline in
investment expenditures in the sector over recent years, the provision and maintenance of
infrastructure has been largely lagging behind the provision of teachers (see para. 2.22).



- 19-
Therefore, highest priority would be given to meeting 100%o of requirements in terms of
rehabilitation, repairs and expansion of existing facilities, to accommodate the current level of
enrollment; about 50% of requirements to accommodate the expected future expanded
enrollment would be met.
3.31      Total requirements, estimated on the basis of these priority criteria, are summarized
in Table 3.2 below. They include the rehabilitation of an estimated 6,538 classrooms and 4,767
support facilities as well as the repairs of some 1,174 existing public schools and structural
reinforcement of some 689 establishments in highly seismic areas. They also include the
construction and equipping of approximately 2,124 new classrooms and 1,068 support facilities.
The project would contribute towards meeting these needs by providing the required funding to
supplement the estimated US$55.8 million primary school investment program already financed
under the Government's Solidaridad program and under the Bank's Decentralization and
Regional Development project (Loan 3310-ME, approved by the Board on March 26, 1991). The
SEP program is presented separately in the last column of Table 3.2, and the detailed program by
year is presented in Annex 6, Altathment 2. The coordination of the two investment programs
(SEP and Solidaridad) would be ensured by the folowing existing practice: (a) SEP is the only
institution responsible for defining sector needs and priorities; (b) aU civil works done under the
Solidaridad program (type of works and specific location) have to be previously authorized by the
SCEPs directors (and state authorities); and (c) no authorization for civil works can be given
without all the necessary educational inputs (such as teachers, books, furniture) previously
included in the detailed annual planning programs and budgets. Detailed information on civil
works carried out under the Solidaridad program for the first year of the project was submitted to
the Bank during appraisal. At negotiations, the Government agreed that: (i for subsequent
years. a list of civil works carried out by SEP and under the Solidaridad Program would be
p2rovided to the Bank during the annual work plan reviews: (ii) on this basis, classroom
requirements and distribution of civil works between new construction and rehabilitation done
under this project would be readjusted: and (iii) all civil works would be selected in accordance
with criteria and Driorities stated in Dara. 3.30 (see parg 7.01 (e)).
3.32      The civil works program executed under this project would be carried out by
CAPFCE, a federal school construction agency with long-term experience, which has already been
the executing agency in a former Bank project, the Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
project (Loan 2665-ME), and whose performance in this context was judged excellent.
3.33      All new facilities would follow prototype designs that have been reviewed and
accepted during appraisal and final working drawings would take into account regional climatic
and construction processes. The rehabilitation of facilities would also be guided as much as
possible by the prototype designs for new facilities. The acquisition of new furniture and
equipment under the project would follow prototype lists per facility type which have been
reviewed and accepted by the Bank. The upgrading program would repair, substitute and/or
expand the existing stock to comply with the approved lists.
3.34      At negotiations. SEP submitted evidence that technical plans for at least one third of
planned school rehabilitation works for the first year of the project had been prepared and it
afreed to submit the remaining two thirds during the rest of the year. For subsequent years.
technical plans of the following year rehabilitation work program would be submitted during the
annual reviews (see paa 7.01 (f)). No new construction has been programmed for the first year
of the project. For the subsequent years of the project. the Government agreed that evidence



-20-0
regarding donation or purchase of land for new construction and adequate staff would be
available during the annual work plan reviews (see paa 7.0 (j)).
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF CIVIL WORKS REQUIREMENTS BY STATE
AND FACILITY TYPE
l l STATE  |       Guerrero    Chiapas   Oxaca   Hidalgo   REUIREHNI|    PROG H S
Now Classrooms        742        626     529       227          2,124     1250
Rehabilitatlon       1,512     2,488   2,120       418          6,538     3870
Nov Support           553        316     160        39          1,068      640
Facilities
Support
Facility            1,195      1,278   1,506       788          4,767    2,800
Rehabilitation
School Repairs        192        258     203       521          1,174      695
Sch.                   10        338     341         0           689       689
Reinforcement
NOTE:   This clvil works program would be carried out jointly by SEP and the
Solidaridad Program (with previous authorization from SEP).  The last column
presents the estimated SEP program separately.
3.35       Maintenance Program. Preventive maintenance of furniture, equipment and facilities
would be carried out by the SCEPs, with the participation of parents' associations and technical
assistance from CAPFCE. At negotiations. the Govemment presented to the Bank the manual
for preventive maintenance., repared by CAPFCE (see para 7.01 (h)).
3.36       A condition for loan effectiveness would be the presentation. for at least two of the
project states, of the detailed proposals on how to implement the procedures in the preventive
maintenance manual for infrastructure, furniture and equipment. specifyiog the strategy to be
carried out by the SCEPs. CAPFCE the state and the communiq: the remaining two states would
present the plan by June 30. 1992 (see par. 7.0Q (a)).
2.   Institutional Strengthening Component
3.37        Under the Institutional Strengthening component (US$97 million, including
contingencies), the project would support a set of activities aimed at improving motivation and
work conditions of teachers and supervisors and at strengthening the organization of the support
service delivery system and the managerial capacity both at the central and state levels.
a.    Provision of Work Incentives to Teachers.
3.38       The project would support the provision of incentives to general primary and
indigenous teachers working in marginal and extremely isolated rural areas. The objective is: (i)
to reduce the very high turnover and absenteeism rates of teachers in those areas; (ii) to facilitate



-21 -
a more efficient teacher distribution within each state; and (iii) to improve access to educational
services for the poor living in isolated areas.
3.39      The incentive would be equal to the base salary of a primary school teacher, and
would be strictly attached to the work place so that a teacher transfer to any other school would
entail its loss. Payment would be made every month and would be clearly differentiated from the
normal salaries. Close vigilance with respect to teacher punctuality and regular attendance would
be carried out not only by supervisors but also by the commnunity councils and parents'
associations who would authorize the payment (or request its suspension). Lack of compliance
would entail the loss of the incentive and subsequent transfer to another teaching position. Even
a temporary absence for sickness or pregnancy would entail the transfer of the incentive to the
teacher's substitute.
3.40      These incentives, which would make total salaries in these areas signiicantly higher
(by about 50%-6Wo) than in other (particularly urban) areas, are expected to be effective in
inducing teachers to provide the number of hours/days of teaching that they are required, but
currently failing, to provide, and to accept longer term assignments. They are also expected to
facilitate negotiations with the union with respect to teacher reassignment within the state (see
para. 2.19).
3.41      The work incentive program would be managed by the General Directorate for
Personnel at the federal level until the decentralization process is further advanced, but the
identification of schools which would benefit from it would rest on requests formulated and
documented by the SCEP at the state leveL The SCEPs would also be responsible for the
program execution and supervision, including payment and control of attendance (with assistance
from community councils).
3.42       SEP agrees that this incentive program, which has already been successfully
implemented on a pilot basis, should be subject to a close follow-up and should only be expanded
through careful targeting. This targeting would be based on a map of each state established by
the respective SCEPs which would identify "incentive-schoolse according to various indicators (lack
of basic services, difficulties of access and distance from roads, repeated problems of absenteeism
and abandonment of the work place). The number of beneficiaries from the program would
gradually increase from about three percent of rural teachers in the first year of the project to
around 12 percent of rural teachers by the end of the project. The General Directorate for
Personnel has prepared detailed guidelines specifying selection criteria for target schools, the
teacher attendance control mechanism and the payment system to be used, in accordance with
agreements reached during appraisal.2 At negotiations. the Government presented to the Bank.
and agreement was reached on. the list of target schools and localities selected for the first
project year. School selection for each subseguent proiect year would be discussed with the Bank
and agreed at the annual project implementation reviews (see para 7.01 (f)).
2 SEP, "Guidelines for the Payment of Work Incentives to Primary School Teachers Working in
Marginal Rural Areas (Lineamientos para el pago del incentivo a maestros de educaci6n primaria
por laborar en localidades rurales de marginaci6n extrema,)" July 1991 (see Project Files).



- 22 -
b.   Improvement of the Supervision System.
3.43       The Mexican Government has given high priority to the improvement of the
functioning of the supervision system which is currently seriously impaired by strong resource
constraints, especially in remote rural areas (see para 220). Research has shown that the
effectiveness of the school supervision system is positively related to teacher attendance,
successful implementation of school improvement efforts, and student achievement.
3.44      lo improve the supervision system so as to allow supervisors to carry out effective
technical support, the proposed project would finance transportation, pecuniary incentives, offices
and equipment for the reproduction of materials and incremental salaries for about 100
supervisors. The transportation provision includes the payment of rental services and the
financing of about 280 four wheel drive vehicles identified as the minimum necessary for the
approximately 1,200 federal and state supervisors working in rural and indigenous areas in the
four states. These vehicles would be used to allow supervisors to reach isolated areas with no
alternative way of access and to facilitate distribution of educational materials to the schools.
Pecuniary incentives varying between around US$600 and US$1,000 per year to compensate for
additional travel and subsistence costs, would be given to supervisors who have to visit distant
schools, provided they comply with their expected work plan. As in the case of teachers
incentives, compliance would be controlled by community councils (comisarios ejidales) and
parents' associations as well as by the school director. In addition, about 1,200 supervisor offices
would be built and equipped under the project. The provision of modest office space, annexes
usually attached to existing schools and strategically located in the supervision zone, is designed
not only to facilitate supervision work but also to allow, at the level of school zone, storage of
textbooks and didactic materials, the distribution of which would be placed under the supervisors'
responsibility (see para. 347). These work incentives would complement the fairly intensive
training program geared towards improving supervisor skills (see para. 3.14).
3.45      The combination of work incentives, in-service training and improved work
conditions is expected to increase significantly the frequency of supervision, especially in remote
areas, to improve the quality of pedagogical and technical support and to allow a more timely
distribution of didactic materials. As part of an effort to increase motivation and performance,
the program would also include symbolic rewards to outstanding staff, related to student
achievement.
3.46       The General Directorate for Personnel has prepared guidelines to specify the norms
for administering and distributing pecuniary incentives to supervisors, in accordance with
agreements reached during appraisal.A At negotiations. SEP provided evidence that all sites for
construction of office space grogrammed for the first year of the project have been donated to or
acquired by SEP or by state governments and have the adequate staff. For the subsequent years
of the project. evidence regarding donation or purchase of land for new construction and
adequacy of staff would be part of the annual work plan reviews (see para. 7.01 (g)).
.o/ SEP, "Guidelines for the Payment of Incentives to Primary Education School Supervisors
Working in Marginal Rural Areas (Lineamientos para el otorgamiento del apoyo a la funci6n de
supervisi6n escolar en la educaci6n primaria, por laborar en localidades rurales de marginaci6n
extrema)," July 1991 (see Project Files).



-23 -
c.   Orfanization/Management: Strengthening of the Support Service
Delivery and Management Capacity.
3.47       The support service delivery capacity of SEP has been seriously impaired in the past,
by distribution problems which have prevented a timely distribution of textbooks and other
materials to schools. The problems were caused by inadequate or unavailable storage facilities,
transportation problems (including unavailability of private sector transports) and difficulties of
access to rural schools, particularly acute in the project states (see param 2.16). To address this
critical issue, the project would support the construction and equipping of a network of about 43
warehouses, located strategically in each state and easily accessible by 3.5 ton trucks, which would
replace limited and inadequate rented facilities. Materials would be delivered to these
warehouses and assembled in packages according to the needs of each school in the region.
These packages would be delivered to the offices of the supervisors who would then be
responsible for the distribution to individual schools, using storage space and vehicles fnanced by
the project as part of the improvement of the supervision system (see para. 3.44).
3.48       Space requirements for storage have been estimated on the basis of the volume of
textbooks, didactic materials, school furniture, materials for preventive maintenance, to be
distributed over the year, and considering a 75 percent utilization rate of storage capacity over ten
months (see Annac 6, Attachment 3 for detailed explanations). Staff requirements have been
estimated at four persons per warehouse but no new hiring would be necessary as existing SCEP
staff could be redeployed. The project would also support the financing of 43 (3.5 ton) vehicles
to allow distribution of materials from the warehouses to the supervision zone. The reliance on a
private transportation system was considered, but found less cost effective at this time for these
particular states. Implementation would be phased so as to allow for testing and possible
modifications and alternative approaches, if necessary. As for other civil works. SEP provided
evidence at negotiations that all sites for construction of office space programmed for the first
year of the project have been donated to or acauired by SEP or by state governments and have
the adeauate staff: agreement was also obtained at negotiations that evidence regarding donation
or purchase of land and adequate staffing would be provided during the annual work plan reviews
lsee para. 7.01 (g)). As a condition for disbursement for warehouse construction. SEP would
submit an inventory control system satisfactoqy to the Bank (see para 7.03 (b)).
3.49       The project would also strengthen the management capacity of SEP at both the
central and state levels by financing specialized short-term technical assistance to support project
coordination, monitoring, and evaluation activities of the central project coordinating unit (PCU)
and state project coordinating units' (SPCUs) staff (see para. 5.10), as well as training for
technical, managerial, and administrative staff, office furniture and equipment, including
computers, vehicles, and operating costs.
d.   Improvement in the Information. Monitoring and Evaluation Systems.
3.50       Information and Monitoring System. The project would support the development of
the current information system to improve SEP planning and monitoring capacity through: (a) a
revision of the content of current administrative registers to include all relevant and necessary
data; (b) improvements of the data collection and processing system and of the communication
system between states and the central level; and (c) a more decentralized use of the information
allowing for diffusion to local education authorities, including supervisors, principals, teachers and
parents' associations. Funding would be provided for technical assistance, supplementary
equipment at the state and federal levels and training. The information system is currently



-24-
managed by the General Directorate for Planning, Programming and Budgeting (DGPPYP) at
both the federal and state levels, and would therefore be readily accessible to the PCU for the
continuous monitoring of project implementation. Precise terms of reference for an information
needs study, as well as an action plan for the development of the system,!-Y which were prepared
with financial support from the Japanese Grant Facility, have already been discussed and found
acceptable to the Bank. At negotiations, the Government proided assurances that the results of
the information needs study would be submitted to the Bank. for review, no later than December
31. 1991. and modifications to the action plan-(mentioned above), satisfactoLy to the Bank. made
by February 29. 1992 (see para 7.01 ()).
3.51      Evaluation (or quality-assessment) Sgstem. The capacity for sustainable system-wide
evaluation is essential for assessing and monitoring the level of quality of education and
identifying changes over time. It is also essential for providing relevant information to those in a
position to improve educational practice in the countty. The project would improve this capacity
by instituting a system of assessment of educational quality and students' performance.
3.52      To assess student performance and educational quality, the project would institute in
the project states a system of tests on a sample of students in all primary education grades.
Samples would be designed to cover the different types of school and education modalities and a
variety of geographical areas. Appropriate tests measuring cognitive achievement by subject
(language, math, natural and social sciences) would be designed by the DGEIR and administered
to students. Additional data relative to school inputs, family and community characteristics and
social and economic environment would also be gathered to control for school and non-school
factors. This system would allow for precise comparisons of student achievement by geographical
area, gender, type of school and school inputs, and would become, in the long-run, an extremely
useful source of periodic information on sector performance. This program would be managed by
the DGEIR at the federal and state levels. The project would finance data collection and
analysis, distribution of information, some equipment, and technical assistance. A detailed
proposal was discussed at appraisal,3 and agreement was reached on the action plan and
implementation schedule. At negotiations. the Government: (i) confirmed its agreement that
questionnaires and administration manuals for the first round of field work would be sent to the
Bank. for review, by June 30. 1992: and (ii) provided assurances that it would carry out the tests
and other data-gathering, satisfactory to the Banl. Evaluation of subsequent program
implementation progress would be part of the annual reviews (see parm 7.01 (k)).
e.   Selected Studies.
3.53       The proposed project would support operational research and studies which would be
coordinated by the PCU at the central level in collaboration with the DGEIR and carried out by
selected research institutions. The project would finance technical assistance, survey design, data
collection and processing, and analysis. The studies are designed to: (i) evaluate the impact of
fl/ SEP, 'Terms of Reference for the Improvement of the Information System (Terminos de
referencia del proyecto Banco Mundial-M6xico - Tema: Mejorar el sistema de informaci6n),"
May 1991 (see Project Files).
j./ SEP, 'Proposal for a Quality Assessment System for Primary Education in the States of
Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca (Proyecto de evaluaci6n de la calidad de la educaci6n
primaria en los estados de Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo y Oaxaca)," February 1991 (see Project
Files).



-25 -
project activities; (ii) measure the cost-effectiveness of the various components of education
policies; and (iii) enhance planning and policy formulation capacity.
3.54      The principal and most extensive study woulJ be an evaluation of the impact of the
project on children's learning achievement and probabilities to repeat and/or dropout from
primary school. This evaluation would be based on longitudinal data gathered on two student
cohorts (including a control group) and would not only measure the overall effect of the project
but would also make separate analyses for each of the project components. It would thus aim at
measuring the effects of: (i) increased availability of didactic materials; (ii) use of library books;
(iii) teacher training; (iv) use of distance education technologies; and (v) work incentives for
teachers and supervisors, controlling for the effect of non-school factors such as family and
community characteristics. This impact evaluation would be complemented with a cost-
effectiveness analysis based both on the impact of the project on student learning and promotion
and on disaggregated cost analysis for each of the project components. The gathering of data for
this study, which would be initiated during the first year of the project, would be closely linked to
the setup of the evaluation system (see para. 3.51) and would be done in collaboration with the
DGEIR.
3.55      Other studies include the following:
(a)  a specific analysis designed to evaluate the rates of utilization and acceptance
of bilingual books by indigenous teachers, students and community as well as
their impact on children achievement;
(b) a follow-up of the impact of the use of work incentives on teacher turnover,
attendance and dedication and an assessment of the efficiency of the
community participation mechanism;
(c)  an evaluation of the impact of the TV pilot experiment; and
(d)  an analysis of the project impact on other behavioral and psychological traits of
children.
3.56      Discussion on draft terms of reference for the studies was initiated during appraisal
(see Annex 6, Autachment 4). At negotiations. the Government presented. and agreement was
reached upon. terms of reference for the studies. implementation schedules, short list of
consultants, the collaboration of foreign consultants. and model of consultant contracts, the latter
to follow those used by the Secretary of Labor (STPS): and provided assurances that the data
collected for the studies would be made available to the Bank (see para 7.01 (1)). Consultants'
proposals for the studies on impact evaluation, cost-effectiveness, and work incentives for teachers
will be sent to the Bank, for review, by October 31, 1991. Interim reports on all studies would be
part of the project mid-term review (see para. 5.16).
IV. PROJECT COST. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDITS
A.         Project Costs and Financing
4.01      Project Costs. The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, and
taxes (estimated at US$39 million equivalent), is estimated at about US$352 million equivalent, of
which US$44.4 million would be foreign exchange. Table 4.1 below summarizes the estimated



- 26-
estimated costs by project component. Investment costs amount to 67% of base costs and
incremental recurrent costs amount to 33% of base costs (see Anne 7). Project costs are
estimated at July 1991 price levels and include physical contingencies of 10% for civil works and
5% for equipment, furniture, vehicles, and educational materials. Price contingencies are
calculated at 3.4% per year for 1991-96. These rates have been applied to local and foreign costs
as well, assuming that periodic exchange rate adjustments would compensate for the difference
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECTS COSTS BY COMPONENT
(Us$ MILLION)
TOTAL S
LOCAL  IOJ IGN    TOTAL   S FOREIGN        BASE
.                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zxcH"GE  COSTS
A. Educational Services
Education Materials            49.7    11.1         60.8    17            20
Teacher Training               32.8      6.1        38.9    15            13
Educational Facilities        101.7    17.1         118.8    14           39
Sub-Total                     184.2    34.3        218.5    15            72
B.  Institutional Strengthening
Teacher Work Incentives        67.4      3.3        70.7      4           23
and Supervision
Organisation/Management         7.8      1.2         9.0    13             3
Monitoring, Infor. & Eval.      5.1      1.7         6.8    24             2
Sub-Total                      80.3      6.2        86.5      7           28
TOTAL BASEZLIN COSTS              264.5    40.5        305.0    15           100
Physical Contingencies         12.0      2.0        14.0    17             5
Price Contiagencies          _31.0       2.0        33.0      6           11
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               307.6    44.4        352.0    14           115
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
4.02        Estimated construction costs for the project area are based on unit prices derived
from current contracts and costs analyses for similar standards of construction in corresponding
facilities. Estimated educational facilities rehabilitation costs are calculated based on unit costs
presented by CAPFCE (see Anex 6, Atachkment 2). Estimated costs of equipment, furniture
and vehicles are based on current c.i.f. unit prices, adjusted to include local transportation costs.
Maintenance costs are estimated at 0.5% of investment costs for civil works and at 2% for
furniture and equipment. Estimates for technical assistance and studies are based on current rates
for local and foreign experts. Cost estimates for training, salaries and operating costs are based
on current costs or costing standards used by SEP.
4.03        Incremental Recurrent Costs. During the implementation period, the project would
add an average of about US$20.4 million per year to the recurrent expenditure budget of SEP.
Incremental operating costs generated by the project are estimated in 1991 prices to grow from
US$8.9 million in the first year of project implementation to US$28.1 million in the last year of



-27 -
project implementation, which represents only 0.4% of SEP's 1991 recurrent budget. The
incidence on SEP's budget would thus remain very small and manageable.
4.04      Recurrent costs under the project, in 1991 US dollars, are estimated as follows:
1991/92     1992/93      1993/94     1994/95      1995/96
---------------------------------- in US$ million a/-
8.9         15.0         22.0        27.9         28.1
a/ In 1991 pnces.
These incremental operating costs would be generated by incentives for teachers and supervisors,
salaries for new teachers and supervisors, operation and maintenance of infrastructure, equipment
and vehicles, school supplies, and travel and subsistence costs for monitoring and evaluation
activities.
4.05       Project Financing. The loan would be made to NAFIN, which would make the funds
available to SEP for the execution of the project. The proposed loan of US$250.0 million would
finance 80% of project costs, net of taxes and duties of about US$39.0 million. The loan would
finance 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 67% of local expenditures. The remaining
US$102.0 million would be financed by the Federal Government Incremental recurrent costs
would be financed by the Bank on a declining basis (see para. 4.14), along the lines already
established under the Basic Health Project (Loan 3272-ME). The relatively high percentage of
local cost financing under the project is the consequence of the project's small foreign exchange
component. It is justified by the need to ensure a significant impact on social sector development
and to facilitate desired policy changes. Moreover, the fact that the project targets poor states
with low savings capacity, and furthermore, within these states, focuses its most significant
interventions on the poorest segments of the population, also justifies this relatively high
percentage of local cost financing. To ensure timely and efficient project implementation, various
start-up activities, including those related to technical and bidding specifications for civil works,
and employment of consultants, are now being undertaken. Retroactive financing of up to
US$6.0 million equivalent would be made available to cover eligible start-up expenditures made
on or after March 22, 1991, the appraisal completion date.
B.        Procurement
4.06      The project would include procurement of new construction and rehabilitation of
educational facilities, furniture, equipment, audio visual equipment, educational materials, printing
of library books, vehicles, school supplies, studies and consultant services. Standard bidding
documents have been agreed upon by the SPP and the Bank in Cuernavaca in April, 1990 and
would be used during project implementation. All international competitive bidding
(ICB) and all first local competitive bidding (LCB) contracts per state, both for the acquisition of
goods and for construction of civil works, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other
procurement documentation would be subject to selective ex-post reviev by the Bank and would
be kept by SEP/CAPFCE for periodic review during supervision.
4.07      Packaging of contracts would be encouraged. All contracts for goods that can be
packaged to exceed the equivalent of US$250,000 would be procured on the basis of ICB
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local
bids for goods during ICB evaluation, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to 15 percent or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower.



-28-
4.08       Furniture and equipment for educational facilities amount to about US$17.0 million,
about US$10.0 million of which would be procured by SEP/CAPFCE at state and central levels
using ICB procedures. Packages of goods, fumiture and equipment valued at less than
US$250,000, up to an aggregate value not to exceed US$6.0 million, not expected to attract
foreign bidders, could be procured by the SCEPs using LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers
eligible under Bank guidelines, in accordance with procedures sa-tisfactory to the Bank, would be
permitted for small, urgent and readily available off-the-shelf furniture and equipment in packages
estimated to cost US$25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million.
4.09       The total cost of 323 vehicles (including 280 four-wheel drive and 43 3.5 ton trucks)
needed for the project is estimated to be US$5.0 million, all of which would be procured through
ICB.
4.10       Educational materials (excluding printing of library books) and school supplies for
the project amount to about US$59.5 million. About US$17.5 million of educational materials
would be procured by SEP and CONAFE at the central level and by the SCEPs at the state level
using ICB procedures. Packages of educational materials (excluding printing of library books) and
school supplies valued at less than US$250,000, up to an aggregate value not to exceed US$36.0
million, not expected to attract foreign bidders, could be procured by the SCEPs using LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement on the basis of comparison of price quotations
from at least three suppliers eligible under Bank guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, would be permitted for packages of readily available, off-the-shelf
educational materials (excluding printing of lbrary books) and school supplies estimated to cost
US$25,000 or less in the case ot 4ucational materials and US$35,000 or less in the case of school
supplies, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.9 million and US$3.0 million, respectively. With
regard to library books, the Bank will only finance the printing of these books using the following
procurement procedures: (i) LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank would be used for contracts
costing less than US$250,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million; and (ii) comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines would be
used for contracts costing US$35,000 or less up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000.
Acquisition of certain educational materials and of certain library books, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.1 million and US$1.5 million, respectively, will be made through direct
contracting and will not be financed by the Bank.
4.11      The construction of new facilities and the rehabilitation of the existing network,
including repairs and structural reinforcement, would be conducted by SEP/CAPFCE through
local representatives at the state level. Since all works are small and scattered throughout rural
communities in the four project states and are therefore not likely to attract foreign bidders,
works costing less than US$2.0 million, up to an aggregate amount of US$126.0 million would be
carried out using LCB procedures, acceptable to the Bank, without excluding the possible
participation of foreign firms in the bidding process. For small, simple works costing US$50,000
or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.0 million, shopping procedures, based on at least
three price quotations from qualified contractors, would be permitted. No contract for civil works
is expected to exceed US$2.0 million; however, if such contracts were to occur, ICB procedures
would have to be used. About US$10.0 million, equivalent to about 7% of the total construction
program, for small and scattered works with average costs of, or below US$5,000, would be
implemented through force account by SCEPs/CAPFCE with no Bank financing. These works
would be performed in very remote rural areas where the interest of local contractors is very
unlikely.



v29-
4.12         The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and technical assistance
would be consistent with the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.
4.13         Table 4.2 showing project cost breakdown by procurement method is presented
below.
Table 4.2: PROCUREMENT METHODS BY CATEGORY
(USS million)
CATZGORY            ICB                                        . NA.        TOTAL
Civil Works              -          126.0             3.0 a/        10.0 b/        139.0
(102.0)          (2.0)          (0.0)         (104.0)
Equipment and           10.0          6.0             1.0 a/                        17.0
Furniture             (10.0)        (5.0)           (0.8)           -             (15.8)
Vehicles                 5.0          -               -              -               5.0
(5.0)                                                      (5.0)
Educational             17.5          9.0             3.0 a/ cl      -              29.5
Materials             (17.5)        (7.7)           (1.6)                         (26.8)
Library Books            -            1.5             2.0 a/ d/      -               3.5
(1.5)          (0.5)                          (2.0)
Training, Studies and   -             -              45.0            -              45.0
Technical Assistance                               (45.0)                         (45.0)
School Supplies          -           27.0             3.0 a/         -              30.0
(13.5)          (1.5)                         (15.0)
Tniacher Incentives      -            -              83.0            -             83.0
Incremental Salaries                               (36.4)                        (36.4)
and Other Operating Costs
TOTAL                   32.5        169.5           140.0           10.0           352.0
(32.5)     (129.7)          (87.8)          (0.0)         (250.0)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts estimated to be financed by the Bank.
a/h    Works and goods to be procured through price quotatione from at least three
suppliers or contractors.
b/i    Force account, to be used in some cases where works are small and scattered and
in remote rural areas.
c/s    Includes US$1.1 million of direct contracting, not to be flianced by the Bank.
d/s    Includes US$1.5 million of direct contracting, not to be financed by the Bank.
C.           Disbursements
4.14         The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a six year period as follows: (a)
civil works, 75% of expenditures for new construction and rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing educational facilities; (b) equipment and furniture, 100% of foreign expenditures, and
85% of local expenditures; (c) vehicles, 100% of foreign expenditures, and 85% of local



-30-
expenditures; (d) educational materials, including printing of library books, and distance education
materials, 100% percent of foreign and local expenditures, excluding taxes; (e) training, technical
assistance, consultancy services, and studies, 100%o of total expenditures; (f) work incentives for
rural teachers, at a rate of 100% until an aggregate amount of US$10.0 million has been reached;
thereafter, disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of 60%o until an aggregate
amount of US$16.0 million has been reached; thereafter, disbursements would be made at a rate
of 40% until an aggregate amount of US$22.0 million has been reached; and the remainder would
be disbursed at a rate of 20%; and (g) incremental salaries, school supplies, and other operating
and maintenance costs, at a rate of 80% until an aggregate amount of US$12.0 million has been
reached; thereafter, disbursements for this category would be made at a rate of 50% until an
aggregate amount of US$1&0 million has been reached; thereafter, disbursements would be made
at a rate of 25% until an aggregate amount of US$22.0 million has been reached; and the
remainder would be disbursed at a rate of 10o.
4.15      Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against expenditures that would
be submitted to the Bank and fully documented for contracts valued at more than US$250,000
equivalent for goods and US$1.0 million for civil works. Claims for expenditures of lesser
amounts would be disbursed against presentation of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), for which
the supporting documentation wouid be retained by SEP and each SCEP for periodic inspection
by the Bank and by external auditors. All expenditures and SOEs would be transmitted to the
Bank through NAFIN. The Government would set up a Special Account in US dollars in Banco
de Mexico with an initial deposit of US$12.0 million, which is an estimate of the average
disbursement per quarter of the loan over the project cycle. Withdrawals from the Special
Account would be supported by the required documentation. Separate project accounts would be
established and monitored by PCUs in SEP and each of the four states.
D.        Accounts and Audits
4.16      SEP would maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with
the execution of the project, including the expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the loan account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures. Central records,
maintained by the central PCU, would reflect the resources and expenditures in connection with
the execution of the entire project. Other sets of records would be maintained through the
respective SPCUs, under supervision by the central PCU and would reflect the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the project in or for the respective project state.
Data from these state centers would be sent to the central PCU for consolidation purposes.
NAFIN would keep records in separate accounts with respect to the Special Account. At
negotiations. the Government and NAFIN provided assurances that they would: (i) have the
records and accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent and qualified auditors. in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures and the specific current
understanding with the Mexican authorities: (ii! furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each year. a certified copy of the audit
reports: and (iii! furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the records and accounts
as well as the audit as the Bank would from time to time reasonably request (see para. 7.01 (m).



-31 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTA7IONAND
A.        Project Readiness for Implementation
5.01      The project was jointly prepared by SEP at the central level and the SCEPs, with
periodic inputs from Bank missions. The preparation team was placed under the General
Director for Planning, Programming and Budgeting (DGPPYP) and the Undersecretariat for
Educational Coordination (UEC). The DGPPYP team, staffed with experienced personnel and
with strong support from the Secretary of Education: (i) defined the project scope and objectives
in accordance with the overall strategy defined in the Government 'Education Modernization
Program"; (ii) coordinated the work performed by the other general directorates and entities
involved in the project (DGEP, DGEI, CONAFE, CONACEN, DGEIR, UPE, UTE); and (iii)
served as liaison between the central level entities and the state delegations for the gathering of
relevant statistical information and the discussion of all relevant issues, mainly personnel and
implementation issues. This organizational setup would serve as a basis for the implementation
arrangements.
5.02      Project preparation is in an advanced state of readiness for implementation. The
survey of school needs is underway to help define the precise contents of the educational
materials packages and other school needs. The library program is already being implemented.
Prototype designs for new facilities have been reviewed and accepted by the Bank and technical
specifications for the first year rehabilitation program are under preparation. Draft guidelines for
the distribution of incentives to teachers and supervisors have been prepared. Technical assistance
has already been provided under grant financing by the Government of Japan for the definition of
terms of reference for the development of the information and quality assessment systems.
Technical groups responsible for the implementation of the teacher training programs, including
distance education programs, have been formed.
B.        Proiect Organization and Management
5.03      SEP would be responsible for overall coordination and attainment of project
objectives. Implementation responsibilities would be shared by SEP at the central level and its
state delegations (SCEPs). As part of the policy aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity
at the state level, it is expected that the share of responsibilities held by the SCEPs, in terms of
management and monitoring of the various components, would gradually increase over the project
life. The SCEPs would also '- responsible for supervising and monitoring the support provided
under the project to state ss: --is. At negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare and
submit to the Bank an addendum. bv Februar 29, 1992. to the existing agreement between the
federal and state educational authorities to ensure that the state authorities would collaborate
with SEP's state-level entities (SCEPs) to supervise and monitor project implementation (see
para 7.01 (D)).
5.04      No change in implementation arrangements is expected to occur if the
decentralization process is pursued further over the life of the project. The project would help
prepare and facilitate the decentralization process in two ways. First, the implementation and
monitoring capacity at the state level would be strengthened; second, by providing support to both
federal and state schools, better coordination between state and federal authorities would be
achieved as a preliminary step towards a merging of both systems. In accordance with the
Mexican Constitution, however, even in the event of a totally decentralized school system, SEP



-32 -
would still keep its normative and monitoring functions as well as the prerogative to provide
direct technical and financial support to state schools.
5.05      Overall authority for project management would be vested in the Undersecretariat
for Educational Coordination. The Undersecretary would be assisted in the general management
of the project by a project coordinating unit (PCU) directly associated with the General
Directorate for Planning, Programming and Budgeting (DGPPYP) (Annex 6, Chart 1 provides a
detailed description of this organizational structure).
5.06       The PCU would report to the Undersecretary and to the General Director for
Planning, Programming and Budgeting and would be responsible for the folowing functions: (i)
overall coordination of project activities; (ii) consolidation of the work plans prepared by the
executing agencies for the annual and mid-term implementation reviews (see paras 5.14 and
5.16); (iii) managing project resources, monitoring expenditures and arranging for audit accounts;
(iv) contracting of technical assistance and studies; (v) liaising with project coordinating units
established at the SCEP level; and (vi) continuous monitoring and evaluation of the project.
5.07      The PCU would coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the activities of the following
participating entities:
(i)    lhe General Directorate for Primary Education (DGEP), the General
Directorate for Indigenous Education (DGEI), CONAFE, CONACEN and
UPE for (a) the production and/or acquisition of educational materials and
their distribution to the project states; and (b) the design, planning and
implementation of teacher training programs;
(ii)    The Educational Television Unit of SEP (UTE) for the design, planning
and implementation of all distance education programs;
(iii)   CAPFCE for the improvement of educational facilities;
(iv)    The General Directorate for Personnel for the provision of work incentives
to teachers and supervisors; and
(v)    The General Directorate for Evaluation (DGEIR) and the DGPPYP for
the improvement of the monitoring and evaluation systems and the studies.
5.08       These entities, which operate both at the central and state levels, would appoint
representatives to form a technical committee which would serve as liaison with the PCU.
5.09      In each of the states, a small PCU (SPCU) would also be established and its head
would directly report to the director of each SCEP. It would be responsible for coordinating
activities of all participating agencies and monitoring project implementation at the state level
with special emphasis on: (i) the implementation of the civil works program; (ii) the timely
acquisition and distrbution of educational materials; (iii) the proper functioning of the supervision
system; (iv) the monitoring of the teachers' incentive program; and (v) the coordination and
supervision of support provided to both federal and state schools.
5.10      The central PCU and the technical committee referred to above would be formed by
experienced staff who have been involved in the project preparation since the earliest stage. The



- 33 -
central PCU would be staffed on a fMl-time basis by an operating director, a financial controller a
procurement specialist, an information specialist, an administrative coordinator and four program
directors, each one responsible for the follow-up of specific project components (see Annex 6,
Chart 1). A similar structure would be repeated at the level of the SPCUs. At negotiations. the
Government: (i) confirmed agreement reached dung appraisal on the staffing plan for the
project 'zoordinating units at both the central (PCU) and state levels (SPCUs): (ii! provided
evider-e that the PCU operating director, and several key staff to the PCU and SPCUs. had been
appointed: (iii) agreed to finalize appointment. bv the date of Loan effectiveness, of all operating
directors of the SPCUs. all other staff, and appoint staff for the technical committee associated
with the PCU: (iv) agreed that all aforementioned appointments should clearly specifv
responsibilities: and (v) provided assurances that the PCU and SPCUs would be maintained
during the project implementation with the characteristics agreed upon with the Bank (see para,
7.01 (o)). As a condition for loan effectiveness. SEP would provide evidence that the central and
state PCUs are adequately staffed in accordance with the staffing plan agreed upon during
negotiations (see para 7.02 (b)).
5.11      Because of SEP's lack of experience with Bank projects, a project launch seminar
would be conducted prior to loan effectiveness to increase the familiarity of PCU and SPCU staff
with Bank procedures.
5.12      Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a
period of approximately five years and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996, with the
closing date set for December 31, 1996. The cost estimates prepared for the various components
(see Annex 7) and implementation schedule (see Annex 9) would serve as a basis for project
implementation planning and would be updated annually by SEP and the state SCEPs in
preparation for the annual progress and work plan reviews (see para 5.14). During the annual
reviews with the Government, the Bank would give particular attention to the effectiveness and
efficiency of implementation of project components and changes would be agreed as needed. In
addition, an in-depth mid-term review (see para 5.16) would provide an opportunity for a
preliminary assessment of the project impact and performance and for the definition of necessary
adjustments.
5.13      Monitoring Targets. To assist in the monitoring of project implementation,
particularly in the context of the annual and mid-term reviews (see paras 5.14 and 5.16), a
comprehensive and well-focused list of monitoring indicators would be used (see Annexes 9 and
10 for a list of such indicators). At negotiations. the Government submitted a letter, dated
August 13. 1991. containing performance indicators and Droiect progress review criteria.
satisfactory to the Bank. regarding Project monitoring and evaluation to be used for annual and
mid-term reviews (see para 7.01 (j)L
5.14      Annual and Mid-Term Project Implementation Reviews. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that SEP and its state delegations (SCEPs) would conduct.
iointly with the Bank. SHCP. SPP and NAFIN annual project implementation reviews (see para.
7.01 ()). The review would: (a) analyze the previous years performance and budget allocation;
(b) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the following year; (c) discuss adjustments to
be made in project's implementation schedule; and (d) assess changes in budgetary allocations at
the state leveL The proposed work plan and budget for the following year would have to be
previously defined at the central and state levels and contain a detailed description of targets and
planned activities. Plans for civil works would specify type and schedule of construction and
provide evidence of ownership or donation of land and of adequate staffing.



- 34 -
5.15      At negotiations. the Government provided assurances that the PCU director and the
SPCUs' directors would. by September 30 of each year. beginning in 1992. prepare and submit to
the Bank annual progress reports on the implementation of the project in accordance with targets
established in the previous annual work and imnestment plans (see par. 7.01 (r)).
5.16      At negotiations. the Government provided assurances that: (i) an in-deDth mid-term
review would be conducted by SEP. jointly with the Bank and with the assistance of consultants
employed under terms of reference satisfactory to the Ba,nk. to assess project performance and
initial impact. and focusing on the effectiveness of teacher and supervisor incentives, the library
and bilingual books program. the distbution sb tem. teacher trainin& the Rilot TV program. and
interim results of the studies mentionedin pai  35-55: (ii) results would be submitted to the
Bank by September 30. 1994 for its reaiew and comment: and (iii) on the basis of this review.
action plans. satisfactory to the Bank. would be grepared and initiated by November 30. 1994 (see
para. 7.01 (ID. This review would assess project performance and initial impact in the light of
project objectives and SEP policies. The PCU would be responsible for hiring consultants and
preparing the terms of reference, which would be submitted to the Bank for comments, and for
preparing the report with recommendations.
VI. PROJECT BENEFIT AND RISKS
A.        Project Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would support the Government programs for improving both
the quality and efficiency of primary education, focusing on four states with high incidence of
poverty and low education indicators. The level of cognitive achievement of children as well as
their probability to complete the primary education cycle are expected to increase as a result of
the project. Benefits would thus consist in a higher rate of human capital accumulation
contributing to economic development. They would also consist in a more equal distribution of
economic opportunities among Mexican children as the large proportion of poor children living in
the project states would have greater chances to increase their level of educational attainment and
their earnings potentials. In addition, the project would improve the efficiency of public resource
use by reducing repetition and dropout rates and by increasing the amount of investments with
high social rates of return. Institutional strengthening would contribute to a better allocation and
increased productivity of human resources within the sector; and to an enhanced capacity to
evaluate and monitor educational policies and programs.
B.        Impact on Women
6.02      Approximately half of the children who would benefit from an improved quality of
educational services in the project area would be girls. Their opportunities to have access to
higher levels of education and better work opportunities would thus improve. Further benefits
can be expected as research has shown that increasing the level of education of women has a
significant positive effect on the health status and on the educational attainment of their children
and contnbutes to lower fertility. The impact may be particularly significant for girls from the
indigenous population.



-35 -
C.        Project Risks
6.03      The main project risks are associated with possible delays in project execution due to:
(i) possible teachers' union opposition to Government policy changes; and (ii) limited
implementation capacity at the state leveL The risk of teachers' union opposition is difficult to
address. However, the improvement of work conditions for teachers and supervisors that the
project would bring about and the recent success of the Government (and in particular, of the
SCEP directors of the states involved) in hardling and solving union and employment issues
provides some confidence that this risk can be minimized. The project attempts to reduce the
second risk through: (a) the provision of training and technical assistance to the states; and (b)
close monitoring from the central level. To increase SEP staff familiarity with Bank procedures, a
project launch seminar to cover implementation aspects would also take place soon after loan
effectiveness.
6.04      The high priority given by the Government towards improving economic and social
conditions in the poor southern project states on the one hand and, on the other hand, the strong
commitment expressed in repeated occasions by SEP towards the project objectives as well as the
dedication and work already invested in the project preparation, also contribute to reduce the risk
of slow implementation.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the Government:
(a)       provided assurances that the results of the survey on the needs for didactic materials
for each school currently underway would be furnished to the Bank for review no
later than November 30, 1991 and would be used to adjust the precise content of the
didactic materials packages (see par. 3.10);
(b)       submitted a letter, dated August 8, 1991, confirming agreements reached at appraisal
regarding the mechanisms to be used to monitor teacher attendance to training
sessions and distribute the incentives (per diems and promotion points) (see para.
3.19);
(c)       provided assurances that a detailed description of the teacher training courses
(consisting of course objectives, subject matter, time allocation and instructional
techniques) and training materials would be submitted to the Bank, for review, by
June 30, 1992 (see para. 3.22);
(d)       provided assurances that the detailed descriptions of all distance education programs,
as well as their transmission schedule in the case of programs to be broadcast, would
be presented to the Bank, for approval, by April 30, 1992; and submitted evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that Radio-Television de Oaxaca has the necessary human
and physical resources for the development and application of pilot educational
programs (see para. 328);
(e)       agreed that: (i) a list of civil works carried out by SEP and under the Solidaridad
Program would be provided to the Bank during the annual work plan reviews; (ii) on
this basis, classroom requirements and distribution of civil works between new
construction and rehabilitation done under this project would be readjusted; and (iii)
all civil works would be selected in accordance with criteria and priorities stated in
para. 3.30 (see para. 331);
(f)       submitted evidence that technical plans for at least one third of planned school
rehabilitation works for the first year of the project were previously prepared and
agreed to submit the remaining two thirds during the rest of the year; and agreed
that for subsequent years, technical plans of the following year rehabilitation work
program would be submitted during the annual reviews; (see para. 3.34);
(g)       provided evidence that all sites for new construction programmed for the first year of
the project have been donated to or acquired by SEP or by state governments and
have the adequate staff; agreed that evidence regarding donation or purchase of land
for new construction and adequate staffing would be provided during the annual
work plan reviews (see paras. 3.34, 3.46 and 3.48);
(h)       presented to the Bank the manual for preventive maintenance, prepared by CAPFCE
(see para. 3.35);



- 37 -
(i)        presented to the Bank, and agreement was reached on, the list of target schools and
localities selected for the first project year; school selection for each subsequent
project year would be discussed with the Bank and agreed at the annual project
implementation reviews; (see para. 3.42);
(j)        provided assurances that the results of the information needs study would be
submitted to the Bank, for review, no later than December 31, 1991, and
modifications to the action plan (mentioned above), satisfactory to the Bank, made
by February 29, 1992 (see para. 3.50);
(k)        confirmed its agreement that questionnaires and administration manuals for the first
round of field work would be sent to the Bank, for review, by June 30, 1992; and
provided assurances that it would carry out the tests and other data-gathering,
satisfactory to the Bank; evaluation of subsequent program implementation progress
would be part of the annual reviews (see para. 352);
(I)        presented, and agreement was reached upon, terms of reference for the studies,
implementation schedules, short list of Mexican consultants, the collaboration of
foreign consultants, and model of consultant contracts, the latter to follow those used
by the Secretary of Labor (STPS); and provided assurances that the data collected
for the studies would be made available to the Bank (see paras. 355-56);
(im)       provided assurances that NAFIN and the Guarantor would: (i) have the records and
accounts for each fiscal year audited by independent and qualified auditors, in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures, and with the
specific current understanding with the Mexican authorities; (ii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
year, a certified copy of the audit reports; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the records and accounts as well as the audit as the Bank
would from time to time reasonably request (see para. 4.16);
(n)        agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank an addendum, by February 29, 1992, to
the existing agreement between the federal and state educational authorities to
ensure that the state authorities would collaborate with SEP's state-level entities
(SCEPs) to supervise and monitor project implementation (see para. 5.03);
(o)        (i) confirmed agreement reached during appraisal on the staffing plan for the project
coordinating units at both the central level (PCU) and the state level (SPCUs); (ii)
provided evidence that the PCU operating director, and several key staff to the PCU
and SPCUs, had been appointed; (iii) agreed to finalize appointment, by the date of
Loan effectiveness, of all operating directors of the SPCUs, all other staff, and
appoint staff for the technical committee associated with the PCU; (iv) agreed that
all aforementioned appointments should clearly specify responsibilities; and (v)
provided assurances that the PCU and SPCUs would be maintained during the
project implementation with the characteristics agreed upon with the Bank (see para.
5.10);
(p)        submitted a letter, dated August 13, 1991, containing performance indicators and
project progress review criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding Project



- 38 -
monitoring and evaluation to be used for annual and mid-term reviews (see para.
5.13);
(q)       provided assurances that SEP and its state delegations (SCEPs) would conduct,
jointly with the Bank, SHCP, SPP and NAFIN annual project implementation
reviews (see para. 5.14);
(r)       provided assurances that the PCU director and the SPCUs' directors would, by
September 30 of each year, beginning in 1992, prepare annual progress reports on
the implementation of the project in accordance with targets established in the
previous annual work and investment plans (see pam. 5.15); and
(s)       provided assurances that: (i) an in-depth mid-term review would be conducted by
SEP, jointly with the Bank and with the assistance of consultants employed under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assess project performance and initial
impact, and focusing on the effectiveness of teacher and supervisor incentives, the
library and bilingual books program, the distribution system, teacher training, the
pilot TV program, and interim results of the studies mentioned in paras 3.53-55; (ii)
results would be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1994 for its review and
comment; and (iii) on the basis of this review, action plans, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be prepared and initiated by November 30, 1994 (see para. 5.16).
7.02      As conditions for loan effectiveness, the Government would:
(a)       present, for at least two of the project states, the detailed proposals on how to
implement the procedures in the preventive maintenance manual for infrastructure,
furniture and equipment, specifying the strategy to be carried out by the SCEPs,
CAPFCE, the state and the community, the remaining two states would present the
plan by June 30, 1992 (see para. 336); and
(b)       provide evidence that the central and state PCUs are adequately staffed in
accordance with the staffing plan agreed upon during negotiations (see par. 5.10).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement will be:
(a)       for the pilot programs, presentation of a detailed proposal for the work to be done
by Radio-Television de Oaxaca, specifying the implementation schedule (see para.
328); and
(b)       for warehouse construction, submission by SEP of an inventory control system
satisfactory to the Bank (see para. 3.48).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$250.0 million equivalent to the United Mexican States, to be repaid
over a period of 17 years, including 5 years of grace.



-39.
MEXICO - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNEX LIST
ANNEX 1:    Comparative Education Data in Selected Countries
Table 1:    Comparative Educational Data
ANNEX 2:    Mexico: Educational Statistics
Table 1:    Primary Education Statistics by National and State Levels
ANNEX 3:    Mexico: Efficiency Indicators
Table 1:    Efficiency Indicators for Primary Education by State
Table 2:    Estimated Repetition Rates in Primary Education by Project State and Inefficiency Costs
Figure 1:    Primary School Completion Rates, National Level by School Modality and by Percent
ANNEX 4:    Public Education Expenditures and Financing
Table 1:    Recent Trends in Federal, State and Private Education Expenditures
Table 2:    SEP Actual Recurrent and Investment Expenditures by Project State
Table 3:    Federal, State and Private Education Expenditures by Project State
Figure 1:    Federal Recurrent and Investment Education Expenditures
ANNEX 5:    Sector Organization
Current State of the Decentralization Process
Box 1:      Mexico's Decentralization Process
Chart 1:    Organizational Structure of the Secretariat of Public Education (SEP)
Attachment 1 Teacher Appointment and Reassignment Policies and Practicts
ANNEX 6:    Project Description
Chart 1:    Organizational Structure of the PCU at the Central Level
Attachment 1
Description of Teacher Training Program
Matrix 1:    Matrix of Training Modalities and Groups of Teachers to be Trained and Corresponding
Unit Costs
Attachment 2
Table 1:    Civil Works Program for Improvement of Educational Facilities
Attachment 3
Distribution System: Space Requirements for Storage
Table 1:    Warehouse Space Requirements
Attachment 4
Terms of Reference for Studies
ANNEX 7:    p:nce Costs
Table 1:    Project Cost Summary
Table 2:    Project Components by Year
Table 3:    Projects Components by Year (including contingencies)
Table 4:    Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 5:    Summary Accounts by Year
(cont'd)



-40-
MEXICO - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNEX LIST
(cont'd)
Table 6:     Summary Accounts by Year (including contingencies)
Table 7:     Summary Account by Project Component
ANNEX 8:    Disbursement
Table 1:     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 9:    Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 10:   Key Monitoring Targets
Table A:     Quantitative Indicators
Table B:     Qualitative Indicators
ANNEX 11:   Key Documents Available in the Project File



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: COMPARATIVE EDUCATIONAL DATA
Tablo A:      PRIMARY GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS                              Table D:      AVERAGE PRIMARY TEACHER SALARY
Toal and Femal (in parenhse) Raios and As a Percentage                     By Year, In 1985 Constant US Dollars, and As a Mulbple of GNP Per Capita
..~~~~~ . 
i           ~~~~1965   1970       1975      1980       1985   1YEAR                                        SALARY            GNP MULTIPLEI
CHILE           119.0     104.8      112.2      108.8     105.7            CHLE               1981                2845.0                2.0
(117.7)   (104.7)    (111.5)    (107.7)    (104.3)
COSTA RICA    107.6       109.7      107.0     104.8       97.4            COSTA RICA         1986                4760.3                3.2
(106.1)   (109.1)    (106.5)    (103.8)    (96.2)
NICARAGUA       67.1       80.0      82.0       99.0      101.5            NICARAGUA          1986                3523.5                4.5
(67.2)    (81.0)    (84.5)    (101.8)    (107.0)
HONDURAS        77.4       88.2      87.6       92.8      101.9           HONDURAS            1982               3307.3                 4.2
(77.2)    (88.6)    (87.0)     (93.6)    (103.0)
GUATEMALA    50.5         58.3       63.2       70.8       76.5           GUATEMALA           1979               2489.6                 1.7
(45.6)    (52.4)    (57.5)    (64.9)      (70.2)
BRAZIL          107.2     143.1      87.8      98.9       100.9           BRAZIL                 -                    -                  -
(106.9)   (143.7)    (87.0)    (96.6)     (96.5)
Table C: PUBLIC RECURRENT EXPENDITURE PER PRIMARY STUDENT
As a Parcentge of GNP Per Capita and In 1985 Constant US Dollua
l~~~~~~~A a  Pffeitgo of GNP For Capiita                                                 1985 cotm US Dolus
0        1   196~~iS    197        1975       198       198S                   i 96       1970      1975       198        1985
CHILE              63          -        6.1        9.S       13.2                  72.4          -      64.2      134.9      155.2
CSTA RICA         13.6       12.5       13.0      12.7       10.4                 137.9      154.8      18S.4     204.2      149.4
NICARAGUA          9.3        9.6       7.5        7.4       14.9.                114.9      122.0     10S.7       73.7      119.3
HONDURAS          15.6       13.1         -       11.1       12.2                 104.0       94.3         -       94.5       91.S
GUATEMALA            -       10.0     7.8 a/      Sb           -                      -      110.7   103.2 a/    74.0 bl        -
BRAZIL               -         -      7.6 af       8.5        8.3                     -         -   110.1 a/      142.1      133.2
Source: M. Lockbeed & A. Verspoor, Improving Primary Education in Developing Countries, World Bank, Tables 4; 20; and 22, 1990.
Notes: a/ 1976 figures; bl 1979 figures.



- 42 
ANNEX 2
Papg 1 of 3
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1:    PRIMARY EDUCATION STATISTICS
By National ad State Lovls
(1989-1990)
AREA        LEVEL OF            STUDENTS                TEACHERS                SCHOOLS
EDUCATION           Rural    TOTAL          Rural    TOTAL          Rual|   TOTAL
Federal          4,353,781  10,389,248     153,902     341,252     46,815       64,246
General         3,716,618   9,752,085     126,666    314,016      34,183      51,614
NATIONAL   Indigenous           564,698     564,698      21,193      21,193       6,589       6,589
Community          72,465      72,465      6,043       6,043       6,043       6,043
Couris
State              757,390   3,239,381      26,965     99,732        6,797      13,015
Private             28,721     865,134        879      25,548         189       3,375
LEVEL OP            STUDENTS                TEACHERS                SCHOOLS
-_ El)UCATION           Rora      TarAL         Ruml | TOAL             Rwrl    TaTAL
Federal          1,245,731   1,925,624      43,197     64,247       12,249      14,273
General           869,268   1,549,161     28,692      49,742       7,219       9,243
PROJECr    Indigenous          360,993     360,993      13,353      13,353       3,878       3,878
AREA
Community          15,470      15,470       1,152      1,152       1,152       1,152
Courses
State               94,687     210,09S       2,946       6,641        818        1,204
Private              2,987      4S,662        105        1,438         29         223
(coat)



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
MEMCO
PRMMARY EDUCATON RELCT
(CsL)
| STATE    LEVEL OF             STUDENTS                T_CH                   SCHOOLS         l
EDUCATION           Rum       TOTAL         Rwg       TOTAL   _  Rud|  TOTAL|
Federal            366,758     S14,412      12.017      16,461     3,931       4,401
General          233,465     381,119       7,241      11,685      1,919       2,389
CHIAPAS    Indigenous          125,463     125,463       4,210       4,210      1,446       1,446
Community           7,830      7,830         566         566        566         566
Courses
State               35,715      99,087       1,046      3,148        305         541
Private              1,002      11,711         33         395          7          68
STATE   ~LEVEL OF             STUDENTS               TEACHER                 SCHOOLS
EDUCATION           Rwd   TOTAL I Rum   TOTALI  Rw|   TOTAL
Federal      ~~248,672    447,017       9,817      16,606     2,406       3,016
General           185,397    383,742       7,020      13,809      1,669       2,279
GUERRERO   Indigenous            61,767      61,767       2,680       2,680       620         620
Community           1,508       1,508        117         117        117         117
Courses
State               58,972     111,008       1,900      3,493        513         663
Private                231      11,296          6         345          1          46
(coaL)



- 44-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
M1EXCO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(COQL)
STATE       LEVEL OF            STUDENTS               TEACHERS               SCHOOLS
EDUCATION           Rurd     TOTAL         Rural    TOTAL         Rural    TOTAL
Federal           411,918     611,368      13,631     19,597       3,740      4,355
Generl           278,603     478,053      8,707      14,673      2,176       2,791
OAXACA    Indigenous          129,273     129,273      4,622       4,622       1,262      1,262
Community          4,042       4,042        302         302        302         302
Courses
state                   0           0          0           0          0           0
Private             1,754       9,997         66         298         21          54
STATE   ~LEVnEL OF           STUJDENTS              TEACHEIERS             SCHOOLS
EDUCATION  |        RAwml    TOTAUL        Rural    TOTAL         Ruxol | TOTAUL
Federal           218,383     352,827      7,732      11,583       2,172      2,501
Genord           171,803     306,247      5,724       9,S7S       1,455      1,784
HDALO        I bidigenous      44,490      44,490       1,841      1,841        550         550
Cnommunity         2,090       2,090        167         167        167         167
Cours
Stat.                   0          0           0           0          0           0
_Pivate                 0      12,658          0         400          0          55
Source: DOPPYP, SEP, AprU 1990.



- 45 -
Page I of 3
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1:    EFFICIENCY INDICATORS FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
By State
(1988-89)
|     ~~STATE          COMPLEIMON    DROPOUr    PREPETMlON |  INDEIX
l                       ~~~~ ~         ~~~~RATE  RATE  RA TE1
Distrito Federal                   80.3           1.8           6.5         49.2
Morelos                            72.3           1.7           7.0         43.4
Baja Californa Sur                 86.8           2.0           8.4         41.2
Nuevo Leon                         72.3           3.3           5.5         38.2
Baja Califonia                     73.0           1.9           8.S         37.6
Tlaxcala                           71.3           2.4           7.4         37.0
Caohuila                           66.9           2.6           6.9         34.8
Mexico                             68.3           2.3           9.0         30.6
Aguascalientes                     66.9           3.3           7.8         27.4
Sonora                             62.8           4.2           8.2         18.0
Queretaro                          65.6           2.7           11.7        17.7
Tamaulipas                         65.3           4.6            8.5        16.0
Nayant                             58.1           4.9           7.3         13.7
Jalisco                            56.4           5.6           6.6         10.5
Colima                             56.2           5.1           7.9          9.3
Chihuahua                          57.2           4.6           9.2          8.8
Sinaloa                            54.3           5.3           8.4          5.3
Guanajuato                         56.5           5.5           9.4          2.1
Hidalgo                            54.7           4.0           13.1        -1.7
Durango                            54.7           5.7          10.1         -2.6
San Luis Potosi                    54.0           4.8           12.5        -5.2
Quintana Roo                       54.0           4.1           13.9        -5.3
Zacatecas                          53.5           5.3           11.7        -6.0
Tabasco                            50.1           5.2           12.4        -9.7
Puebla                             53.1           5.7           12.2       -10.4
Veracrz                            43.6           7.8           11.6       -27.4
Michoacan                          44.0           6.8           13.6       -27.4
Yucatan                            43.2           7.3           14.0       -32.3
Campeche                           43.1           8.3           12.5       -33.7
Guerrero                           41.1           9.2           12.7       -41.3
Oaxaca                             40.7           7.5           17.0       -44.9
Chiapas                            27.1          15.7           14.7       -97.1
Source: Indicadores Educativos, DGPPYP, 1989.
Note: The index is based on an average of the percentge deviation from the national average for
the three indicators.



- 46 -
Page 2 of 3
PRIAMAYEDCTOPRJT
Table 2:  ESIMAATD  REPE ON RATES IN PRIMARY EDUCATION
By Project State and Inefficiency Costs
(198B89)
PROJEC  STATE                  MEXICO
COUNTRY
Chiapas   Guerero    Hidalgo   Oaxaca    TOTAL
GRADES                           REPETITON RATES (%) La
1                 53.0        43.2       28.5      38.3        31.8
2                  40.8       33.4       21.2      28.7         17.4
3                  36.7       29.4       20.1      28.4         14.0
4                  34.4       284        20.9      30.0         21.2
5                  35.6       29.6       23.6      32.1         15.8
6                  34.3       32.7       25.7      37.3         (na.)
Total # of Repeaters         260,092     196,949     86,069   201,942    2,745,300
1988 Unit Costs (in Pesos) k  245,026    292,554    247,743   228,095     259,364
Source:  E Schiefelbein, Output of the SMMG model with data from DGPPP. UNESCO-
OREALC, SIRI System, Santiago, June 1991.
La     These repetition rates were estimated by E. Schiefelbein from detailed data on total
enrollment (public and private) by grade and disaggregated according to student age,
following the methodology used in E. SchiefJbein, 'Repetition: The Key Issue in
Latin American Primary Education," LATHR, Worling Paper No. 1, June 1989. They
indicate that repetition rates reported by school principals are underestimated (cf.
Table 1).
k      The 1988 unit costs (in Mexican pesos) were used to estimate the total inefficiency
costs. The exchange rate used was M$2,273.1 = US$1.



- 47 -
ANA3
Page 3 of 3
MEXICO
P-RIMARY EDUCATIONPRJC
Figure 1: PRIMARY SCHOOL COMPLETION RATES
COHORT 1981-1986
National Level
By School Modality and By Percent
/0100
120,.  n 
1981     1982    1983    1994    1995       1996
-. 1    Gr. 2      -. 3     -. 4    It. 5   G-. 6
| _ CONAFE          _     il E3   ngual I  General  |
Source~ Oreccion de Anolgim y Sictt  XO IrWoanelofl.
OGPR, SEP.



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: RECENT TRENDS IN FEDERAL, STATE AND PRIVATE EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
(Absolute Amount and as Percentage of GDP)
(1982-1990)
FED)ERAL               f                    {TOTAL
YEAR           SEP          OTHER                   STATE   PRIVATE  MILLIONS OF  MILLIONS OF AS % OF
ISECRETARIATS                                    NOM. PESOS   1982 PESOS    GDP
(MilL  of Nominal Pesos)          %         %          X
1982          368,608          46,819       80.6      14.3       5.1         515,327       515,327        5.3
1983          488,667          64,400       82.0      13.4       4.6          674,436      3S2,371        3.8
a.0
1984          826,712         101,510      74.5       16.6       8.9        1,245,464      395,134       4.2                    00
1985         1,332,034        148,510       77.1      15.1       7.8        1,918,991      403,234       4.0
1986        2,112,674         271,339      76.3       14.3       9.4        3,125,720      362,612       3.9
1987        5,034,274         484,806      78.3       12.0       9.7        7,046,794      336,266       3.7
1988        10,120,060        956,954       80.0      11.0       9.0       13,842,634      342,775       3.5
1989        12,998,225       1,754,249     76.5       14.9       8.6       19,281,682      398,885       3.9
Notes: State expenditues include municipalities.
Expenditures reflect executed budgL eP
Source: DOPPYP, 1990.



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECr
Table 2: SEP ACTUAL RECURRENT AND INVESTMENT EXPENDITURES
By Project State
(Mil1ions of Current Peso)
(1987-1991)
PROJECr               1987                          198                           1989                        1990  1/                     1991  1/
STATE  Recurret Ivest   TOTAL  Recurret Invest.  TOTAL  Recurrnt invest.  TOTAL  Recumet Ives   TOTAL  R crrent  NesL  TOTAL
Chiapas    110,769.1    77.4  110,846.5  I8,878.9   X76.4  189,155.3  281,71S.4    252.2  281,967.6  273.326.9   S89.3  273,916.2  373,360.1  1.351.0  374.711.1
Guarro   123,224.1    92.3  123,316.4  235,44.4   244.4  235,78.8  334,530.3    238.7  334,769.0  345,588.2   611.5  346,199.7  456,743.4  1,443.6  458,137.0
Hidalgo      80,012.4   140.2   80,152.6  IS7,78.8   334.3  1S8,117.1  218,867.9    297.9  219,165.8  231,487.4   496A   231,93.8  303.666.4  1,5.2  301,891.6     t
Oaxaca      129,804.4   14S.6  129,950.0  250,937.6   427.7  251,365.3  314,511.9    479.5  314,991.4  350,607.7  806.4  351,414.1  458,627.5  1,942.6  460,570.1
<.-.m.                       I    III  I                                                                              ..
1/ Budgeted Amount.
N.A.: Not Available.
Sources: SEP, Compendio Estadisdico del Gasto Educativo, 1990; and State Budgeo for 1990 and 1991.



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3: FEDERAL, STATE AND PRIVATE EDUCATION EXPENDITURES BY PROJECT STATE
(19861989)
1986    TOTAL                   197    TOTAL                   1988    TOTAL                   1989    TOTAL
AREA                            (Millios                        (Millions                       (Mlios                          (Miions
Foderal State Private of current Fedeal State Private of current Federl Stae Printe of curent Fedl Ste Prte  of curet
(%)  (%)  (%)    pesow)         (%)  (%)  (%)    pesos)    (SU)  (%)  (X)    peos)    (X)  (U)  (%)    peos)
Chiapas         78.5 17.8    3.7      80,632    73.2 23.4   3.5    200,402    70.2 26.5   3.3    385,093    75.5 21.3   3.2    532,435
Guerrero        91.6  6.4    2.0      79,672    92.2  5.8    1.9      188,003    92.1  6.1    1.8    365,997    92.8  S.S   1.7    50S.799
Hidalgo         90.6  5.2    4.2      S5.208    92.7  3.0   4.3       122,768    92.8  3.4    3.8    257.173    93.8  2.6    3.6    353.382
Oaxaca          95.9  2.2    1.9      82.825    98.0  0.0    2.0      181,294    98.1  0.0    1.9    356.427    98.2  0.0    1.8    492,259
Source: Compendio Estadistico del Oasto Educativo, 1990; DOPPYP, SEP, Cuadro 2.1, 1990.
Note: State expenditures inchude municipalities.



- 51 -
A4A
Page 4 of 4
MEmCO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECI
Figure 1: FEDERAL RECURREN4T AND INVESTMENT
EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
(Millions of Constant 1970 Pesos)
(1970-1987)
Recurrent
Recurrent
6,35S 81X
Investment
1,462 19X
I nvestment
1, 992 t1X
1970
1976
Recurrenvt
26.058 93x
RecLrrent
14,771
922 5x
I nieutant           1987
1.873 7X
1982
Source: J. Preawd, barch 1IM9.



- 52 -
Page 1 of 3
MEXaCO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJiCI
CURRENT SITUATION OF THE DECENTRALTATION PROCESS
FUNCTION                            BEFORE 1978                     CURRENT SITUATION
Central (Secretariat of PubUe        Central (SEP)
Educational policy                   Education - SEP
Financial resources mobilization    Budget based on fiscal historic       Budget based on historical fiscal
trends. Financial resourees          trends  FPinanial resources
allocated by central goveronot       allocated by SEP to SEP's State
to SEP                               Delegations (SCEPs) with final
approval from SPP.
Sources of funding                   Central goverment                    Central govermment
Curriculum development               Central. One curriculum for the      Central. One curriculum for the
entire country                       entire country, but complemented
with regional and ethnic teaching
materials for corresponding
regios
Teachers hiring and firing           SEP with unions approval             Combined procedures between
center and SEP's State
Delegations. Teachers union
greatly Influences outcomes
Teachers salaries                    Central governmsnt after             National scale fixed by central
negotiated with teachers union       govermnent and negotiated with
unions. AlibJ for regional and
herd working conditions salary
differences
Pre-service and in-service           special teacher tr ainig schools    special teacher training schools
training and upgrading               (Eecuela  Nomsles) mnaged by          (Escuelas Normales) operated by
SEP. Important state and private    SEP$s State Delegations, State
participation                        goverments and the private
sector
Textbooks                            Designed by SEP and publised and   Designed by SEP and published and
distributed, free of charg   by      distributed, free of charge, by
sZP's paratatal agency CONALITSG   S8P's parastate agency CONALITEG
Supervision                          Centralized at SEP                   Decentralized at the State level
Student certification                Centralized at SEP                   SEP's State Delegations (SCEPs)
School calendar setting              SEP                                  SEP
Infonmation system                   Centralized at SEP                   Gathered by the SEP's State
Delegations and integrated by SEP
School building and maintenance      Centralized by SEP and its           State representations of
building parastate agency CAPFCE    parastate building agency
(CAPFCE) incompliance with SEP'S
State Delegations under broad
regulations by SEP and CAPFCE.
There is involvement of Parents-
Teachers Association, specially
in rural areas



- 53 -
ANNEXS
Page 2 of 3
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
.Box 1: MEXiCYS DECENTIRAIZAION PROCSSa
In 1978, the Mexican federally spod educational systcmprisingmore than
11 million students, 320 thousand    hersand   r 4 t         , was to.all
centralized.
Power was distnbuted by educational t eteL According to tis cenall managed
model, the Director General of Primaiy d   ', for exhle, thi in the hierarichal ':.
ranking in the Secretariat of Public Educadion (SE?),was accountable for all the federafly
sponsored primary education m the entir  ry,hand      a u dget oPfUS708
million, larger than the combined stat            more inpa 'stat   f the'e's  .t
country. The Mexico City office 'planned' het
education system in the country'and directly contrd t a        i  t
* ' .  : 'The decentralization s'tra'tegyiiu undertke'nsm'shifte the p e  b  
educationalJevelsto, geopolitical. entities-- Id" "tha'~l;zS'Sae)lg.i
(SCEP, - "Servcios Cordin ado s'   MOWdcai6 Pb" a)wr  salshda h  einn
of 1978,  itthe objective- of p lannn,mngn  n  prtn  h  eeal p oe
.pre-schoo, pmary secdary   d iacher i       
sport Sys'tms in'ther.rspective state. The S s .s aaet
the same responsibilities for Mexico" Cit:y i  diint  6enraieadeauto
functions for their respective eduCational tevl..v'
,:To'ficilitate the'process, finacia-iaat        ica       a  all the
necessary managerial support were m'ade: -a able Iotthe'SCEP' and a.cntinuous.: 
technical monitoring' o progress .wa-set inple.by~ehgetS?ofca&(h  ertr
.conducting periodic short-term retreats. vihtA minatr  fth  eon
-After.12 years of contin'u'ous upgrdn  f ths.d.ns .atv reom the..d....ion
ysehas girown to 25 mlinsuet,oe    iUb  e.hz  n  4  htsn  col
Source: '. Prawda, "Decentralization and Edcatiodal     c        W     a      . A
view from LAT,, - No., No. N 99



MCOM
PRMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGANIZA1TIONAL STRUCTE OF THE SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC EDUCATION (SEP'
COODIATION  f    UNDERSECETARIAT WUDSC              IAT    UDSECRETARIAT   UNDESECRETARIAT    UNDERSECRETARIAT             COIEF
DECENTRALIZED     F0 EDUCATIONAL    01 PRE-PRIMARY &        OF SECONDARY      OF BIGHER EDUC&-    OF VOCATIONAL       hD11IISTRATOR
EDUCATION          COORDINATIGE     PRIHARY EDUCATSION      ISDUCATION      TION AND SCIENTI-   EDUCATION AND
l l B~~~~~~~~~~IC INTiGATON                                   inRZ8 CS 
GENERGALMA                                                 GlNZRAL                                .N     .
DIRECTOMATE 0DDRECT1                                        DIRECTORATE                            DIRCTORU
PLANIn ,          OF PRIM                                 -SRVIAD                              OF   m
PROGRA     9        EDCATION                               IN8SRVICZ                             UD 1
AND BUDGETING                                            CEIDt llUllD                              RSAID
IGE NERAL         GENERAL                                NATIONL                r                     L
LDIzCToT0 or    DIRECTORATE OF                              PED AGOICAL                        -| DI1C I |
EVALUNTIO      L   IIIDICEIIW                              UllIVlRSlTY                         |oF FLoUCAL|
EDUCATION                                                                  l         m
|  8SERVICES8 OP   | I 
I PIJBLIC I
|EDUCATION1                                                      I



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECI
TE-ACHER APPOINTMENT AND REASSIGNMIEN
POLICIES AND PRACTICES
1.   The number of teaching positions available for appointment or reassignment is determined
by:
a.   the detailed annual programming which determines the number of new teaching
positions to be created (creation of new schools or addition of new classrooms to
existing schools); the number of incremental staff is based on a request from the
SCEPs presented in February/March to DGPPYP, which revises it on the basis of
resource availability and sector priorities and communicates final approval to SCEPs
in June; and
b.   the number of vacant positions because of death, retirement, abandonment, or
transfer to another state.
2.   Lists of teachers desiring a transfer to another school are established between January and
April. One third of the candidates for transfer are proposed by SEP; another third are proposed
by the teachers' union (SNTE); and the final third are determined by pure seniority criteria.
3.   Transfers are requested for changes within a given state or from one state to another.
Within a state, transfer is normally requested for moves from an urban to a rural/urban school, or
from a rural/urban school to an urban school; direct transfers from rural to urban schools are not
allowed. No pecuniary benefit is attached to such moves; hard work and living conditions in rural
areas appear to be sufficient incentives for such requests. A transfer from one state to another
implies a reassignment to a rural school in the destination state, regardless of the type of school
in which the teacher was working in the state of origin. For the project states, the number of
teachers wishing to exit the state is typically larger than the number of teachers from the rest of
the country wishing to enter these states. The reverse phenomenon is observed in all northern
Mexican states.
4.   In each state, teacher reassignment is decided, on the basis of existing vacancies and the
proposed list of candidates, by a SEP-SNTE committee (Comision Mixta) that meets at the level
of the SCEP. As requested moves are normally from rural to urban areas, available urban
positions are all filled while rural positions remain vacant after the reassignment process is over.
The difficulty of filling rural positions with experienced teachers is further compounded by the
union's opposition to the suppression of any vacant position in urban schools even if changes in
enrollment size would justify such suppression.
S.   Remaining vacant positions (all rural, as explained above) are filled through new
apsointments from the pool of students who have completed their studies in the teacher training



- 56 -
ANNEX S
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
institutions (escuelas normales). Priority is given to students from the federal 'normar schools, to
whom employment is guaranteed. The position granted will be, if possible, in the same state as
the school; if this is not possible, the position will be in the same region; if this also is impossible,
then the position wilt be wherever there is a vacancy. Positions remaining vacant after all
students from federal teacher training institutions have been appointed are filled by students from
state institutions sc;eened through a selection exam, and exceptionally by students trained in
private institutions. SNTE does not play any role in the appointment system.
6.   The teacher incentive program supported under the project is expected to have a significant
impact on reassignment by inducing teachers to accept longer-term assignments in rural schools
and therefore reducing the number of requested moves from rural areas.



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECr
ORGANIZATIONAL SMUCR OF THE PCU AT THE CENTAL LEVEL
GENER^L  11|
COORDITR
rTE ICAL 21
COORDINATOR
DIRECTOR
TECMNIC"L 3t        COODIMWTOR          COORDINATOR         COORDIVATOR       COORDIVATOR |      NIORN&TIOK       ADIITRAT.             STATE 41
CWITlRE                  1      1            2                   3                  4           SYS I             COORDI1NATO            PCU
I           _      L                    _             ,                      SPECI*LIST
-PrImary             -1dactic            -Teacher           -Training          LCvil,
Education            Materil             Incentives          Urban,            Works
General            -Lbrary              Supervision          Rural,
Directorate          Books                                  Normales,                                  fINANCIAL         P)IOCURNhEN
Indigenous        -Distrlbution       -Evaluation             Indigenous                                COTROKLLER        SPECIALIST
Education            System
General           -Indigenous        -Information          _Distance
Directorate          Reading             System             Education
F E              ~~~~Book.
IcONACEN
It     Under-Secretary for educational coordination of SEP.
2/     General Director of Planning, Programing, Budgeting of SEP.                                                                               ,_
3/     Techical Committee would be fonred by representatives of the different directorates and/or units iavolved in the project.                   a
4/     At the state level, there  ould be a similar structure, but the Operating Coordinator of the SPCUs would report to th  General    ,q 
Director of Coordlnated Services.                                                                                                        PA



- 58 -
AnX 6
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 13
MEXCO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECI DESCRIPTION: TEACHER TRAINING
I.   SUMMARY
A. Target Trainees
The project would provide training to five different groups of teachers working in federal
and state schools in the four project states: (1) General Primary teachers working in rural areas
(31,852); (2) General Primary teachers working in urban schools (24,531); (3) Indigenous teachers
providing bilingual instruction (13,353); (4) "Community Instructors" (CONAFE) working in
extremely isolated and poor areas (1,152); and (5) Teacher Trainers working in the Normal
Schools, In-Service Training Centers and state branches of the National Teachers College (862
trainers).
B. Training Activities
Three types of training activities would be provided: (a) direct in-person instruction during
the summer months; (b) semi-irect (or semi-schooled) courses, one course per semester; and (c)
distance training activities via radio, television, audiocassettes, videocassettes and pamphlets during
the school year. The overall strategy is to reach ail teachers in the four states by the end of the
project by providing them access to several training sessions throughout the year, offered in these
various formats (see the matrix at the end of this annex for a summary table). Level of
attendance and intensity of training received, however, is expected to vary according to school
modality, as explained below in more detail.
IL. DESCRIPTION OF TRAINING BY TARGET GROUP
A Teacher Training for General Primary Teachers
1. Training Stratev
(i) Week-Long Intensive Training
For 31,852 rural and 24,531 urban primary teachers, the project would provide two types of
person-to-person training. The first would be an intensive week (40 hour) of training over the
summer. One course would be offered in every school zone throughout the four states (each



- 59 -
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 13
zone comprises 10-20 schools), starting in 1992. (Note: Summer-long courses are not possible
because of the lack of training facilities and the great dispersion of rural teachers.)
(ii) Four-Month Semi-Direct Training
The second type of training would be semi-direct (or semi-schooled) classes, in which
teachers attend semi-monthly seminar/workshops (four hours each) on Saturdays (or on paydays).
These seminar/workshops would be provided in tandem with anthologies, workbooks, self-learning
guides and radio programs that teachers would follow at home on a daily basis in between
meetings. Courses would last for three and one-half months (one per semester) and would
consist of four modules presented during seven workshops. At the end of each month (or
module) a small exam would be given during the seminar/workshop to assess progress in mastering
the training material and to provide immediate feedback to the teacher and trainer as to what
additional measures need to be taken. The semi-direct method means teachers will not have to
miss any school days to participate in the training.1
Both of these courses would be voluntary, so 100% participation is not expected. On the
other hand, incentives for attendance would be offered: per diems during training and
"promotion points' required for advancement to school directorships. Based on these incentives,
and the anticipated high quality and interest of teachers in taking the courses, the Secretariat of
Education expects attendance to gradually increase over time, from about 20% in the first year
(1992) to 30-35% in the last year in each of these courses.
The core course in teaching techniques for literacy and numeracy (Semester 1) will be
repeated each year, while the summer and second semester courses will vary. By the end of the
project, it is expected that all teachers will have at least taken the core course.
(iii) One-Time New Rural Teachers Orientation
In addition to the strategy described above for all General Primary teachers, new rural
school teachers (approximately 5,700, a high figure because of the huge rural turnover rate) would
receive a one-time, two-week orientation course at the beginning of the 1992i93 school year. The
objectives are: (1) to help inexperienced and young teachers to be effective in multigrade schools
with high absenteeism (e.g., by using self-study guides and Audio Primaria cassette tapes, and by
working with the community to increase attendance, improve health practices, etc.); and (2) to
help them adjust to the rural environment (thereby reducing the extremely high rural teacher
turnover). This course will only be given once during the life of the project, as the curriculum of
the Normal Schools is expected to be modified to include all elements necessary to prepare new
teachers for work in rural areas.
1    An exception to this might apply to rural teachers, if it is decided that the most
practic-al time to offer training is on payday (every other Friday), when teachers travel from
their schools to the towns in which training centers are located to cash their checks.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 13
2. Training Togics
Training topics would include: new methods of teaching reading, writing and arithmetic;
multigrade teaching techniques; the use and elaboration of educational materials; remedial
teaching methodologies to reduce repetition and dropout; educational evaluation and planning;
the social and natural sciences; child development; group dynamics; the new pedagogical model
being introduced in schools nationwide; and the Education Modernization Program. Each topic
would be presented as a module, and the basic training modules for literacy and numeracy would
be repeated each year.
Course contents would vary by modality (urban or rural) so that they correspond to the
actual environments teachers work in. At the same time, since many common themes exist across
urban and rural environments, it will not be necessary to design two entirely different courses for
each semester, but rather one course which is then adapted to teachers' realities.
3. Program Implementation
For both training modalities the project would support: (i) the planning and organization
of the program; (ii) the preparation of course materials; (iii) the selection and training of central
and state techaical groups, as well as of course instructors; (iv) the actual provision of instruction,
including compensations to course instructors and small per diems to cover transport costs of
teachers attending the course; and (v) pro,gram supervision and evaluation.
(i) Course Planning and Organization
For the planning and organization of the training course, SEP will form two central
technical groups (GTCs) with 12 specialists in each. One group wil work on rural teacher
training and the other on urban, although considerable coordination and cross-fertilization in their
work is expected. The specialists will come from within SEP (e.g., Directorate of Primary
Education, Directorate of In-Service Training) and from other educational institutions in Mexico
(e.g., the National Teackers University, the Latin American Institute for Education
Communication, etc.). All specialists will be paid a special (though minor) compensation for the
extra time they dedicate to this activity.
For both the intensive and semi-direct courses, the GTCs will design the course material
(see below) and provide training to the state-level technical groups (GTEs), who will have full-
time primary responsibility for organizing the courses. In addition, the GTC will produce and
distnrbute a basic training course preparation manual for use in organizing training courses in the
states ("la normativa de capacitacion").
In the summer of t   .  conference between the GTC and four GTEs will be held in
Mexico City to initiate p ogram preparation, explain timetables and responsibilities, and provide a
mini-workshop on how to plan, organize, implement and evaluate the training program.
Subsequently, the GTCs will provide two weeks of training to the GTEs each year in Mexico City.



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 13
For the design of course materials the GTC will participate in a week-long fact-finding
mission ("diagnostico") to define the specific training needs as expressed by teachers and to design
rough outlines of the contents of the training modules. The GTC will then prepare the training
material (see below), as well as evaluation instruments. Following this, pre-testing ("validacion")
of training material will be necessary, for one week in each state. At this time the 8 training
modules for the semi-direct courses and the course contents for the week-long intensive course
will be presented to "focus groups" composed of teachers and members of the GTEs. Training
material will then be revised and mass produced based on the results of the pre-testing.
For its part, the GTE will be responsible for: selecting the training sites; ensuring proper
logistical support at all training centers (i.e., the supervisors' schools); inscribing interested
teachers (through their supervisors) into the intensive course; selecting and training course
instructors; and monitoring teachers' progress throughout the school year. The GTEs will provide
one week of training to instructors in early July, before the intensive week-long course, and
another week will be provided in January before the start of the second semester semi-direct
course. Approximately half of all instructors will be trained for the intensive course, with the
other half trained for the semi-direct courses. At the same time, it is assumed that (if required)
instructors will be capable of providing both types of training.
In the last week of August (at which time teachers are obligated to attend "school
orientation"), instructors will conduct a two-day induction seminar, explaining the semi-direct
training method, the location of training centers, the payment of per diems, the "promotion
points" to be awarded for passing the course and other logistical matters. At this time all
interested teachers will inscribe in the course and receive the training anthologies, self-instruction
guides and other necessary materials (which will have been distnbuted to all supervisors before
this time using the normal distribution channels). For the second semester semi-direct course, an
initial seminar/workshop will be added (so that there will be 8 in all, instead of 7, in the second
semester) which will repeat these induction steps.
In September the semi-direct courses will begin, with program monitoring provided by the
GTEs. Progress in program implementation, numbers of teachers inscnbed and resolution of
logistical problems (e.g., payment of per diems) will be closely followed and corrective measures
will be taken if needed.
(ii) Preparation of Course Materials
Course contents and materials would be designed by teams of specialists contracted for this
work from within SEP and from other educational institutions in Mexico such as the National
Teacher's University, the Latin American Institute of Education and Communication or the
Center for Economic, Social and Anthropological Research. Each course would be composed of
four modules, corresponding to the topics described above. Thereafter, the "cascade" technique
would be applied, by which this team of specialists (Central Technical Group, or GTC) would
train teams of technical specialists in the states (GTEs). In turn, these state technical teams
would train the instructors, who would have final responsibility for training the nearly 60,000
teachers.



_ 62 -
A6
Attachment 1
Page S of 13
The first semidiect coure would be considered the basic literacy and numeracy course and
would be repeated each year. An example of the course structure over the three years of training
would be:
COURSE 1 - 1992                           COURSE 2 - 1993
Techniques for Rading                     Techniques for Reading and Writing
I                                           and Writing E
Mathematics I                             Mathematics H
Use of Educational                        Multigrade Teaching
Materials                                 Techniques
Evaluation                                Educational Planning
COURSE 1 - 1993                           COURSE 3 - 1994
Techniques for Reading                    Natural Sciences
and Writing I                            Social ScieTices
Mathematics I                             Group Dynamics
Use of Educational                        Child Development   Materials
Evaluation
COURSE 1 - 1994                           COURSE 4 - 1995
Techniques for Reading                    Regional Studies
and Writing I                            Educational
Mathematics                                 Administration
Use of Educational                        Multigrade Teaching
Materials                                 Techniques
Evaluation                                Education and Society
The courses would have anthologies, self-instruction guides, workbooks and training
manuals for instructos The anthologies would include bibliographical material and pedagogical
theory with respect to the module, followed by practical applications of this theory at the various
grade levels. The anthologies would be closely linked to the radio programs which would be
broadcasted daily throughout the four states These programs would cover the same subject
matter as the module beig covered, and the anthologies (or workbooks) would include exercises
pertaining to the radio programs.
The semi-schooled courses would be supplemented by sets of audiocassettes (distributed to
each school by the project). Ihese cassettes wold be designed by the teams of specialists for use
in the classroom and would provide examples of how to apply the training course material in the
classroom. In addition, n 50 selected training centers video training programs will be shown
during the semina/workshopL These are the same programs as those to be used by Indigenous



- 63 -
ANNEX6
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 13
teachers and CONAFE instructors, with some programs specially designed for General Primary
teachers (see Part Im, Distance Education and Training Technologies, for a full description of the
distance methods to be applied).
(iii) Selection and Training of Instructors
Both types of training would be provided by highly qualified primary teachers working in
the four states, technical support staff, underutilized Normal School teachers and school
supervisors. Instructors would have to meet certain qualifications, such as holding a university
degree and having at least 5 years of teaching experience. All primary teachers would be invited
to apply for positions as instructors ("asesores") after which those best meeting the qualifications
would be selected for training.
Initially, an extra 10% of required instructors would be selected. After receiving a week of
specialized training in July, enabling instructors to provide both the intensive courses and the
semi-schooled courses, the top 90% would be selected (based on a final exam). Before the start
of the second semester semi-direct course, another week of intensive training would be given to
those instructors selected the previous July. This process would be repeated each year, ensuring
motivated, qualified trainers.
The total number of instructors to be selected and trained is based on an estimated 35:1
ratio of teachers to instructors in the courses. For urban teachers 701 instructors would be
required, whereas for rural teachers 911 instructors would be trained, calculated in the following
manner:
URBAN TEACHERS:
Teachers and
State                 Directors        Instructors (35:1)
Chiapas                  6,332                181
Oaxaca                   5,966                170
Guerrero                 8,382                240
Hidalgo                  3.851                110
Total                   24,531                701
RURAL TEACHERS:
Teachers and
State                 Directors        Instructors (35:1)
Chiapas                  8,501                243
Oaxaca                   8,707                249
Guerrero                 8,920                255
Hidalgo                  5,724                164
Total                   31,852                911



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 7 of 13
(iv) Actual Instruction
Considering 7 semi-monthly seminar/workshops per semester, including a final exam at the
seventh meeting, a total of 9,814 seminar/workshops would be provided each year by the project
for urban teachers (701x7x2), with 12,754 seminarAworkshops per year for rural teachers. Each
teacher would attend 56 hours of instruction each year, in addition to putting in an estimated 40
hours of self-instruction at home (5 hours per month for 8 months) and listening to 45 hours of
radio training programs (180 programs, 15 minutes each). This organization is based on expected
high attendance and would require adjustments (on the basis of discussion during project
implementation reviews) if expectations were not being met.
As with the intensive week-long summer courses, seminar/workshops would be held in
every school zone. The instructor would be the facilitator of these sessions, reviewing the self-
study teaching material, proposing discussion topics, answering teachers' questions, suggesting
ways to apply the training material in the classroom, and providing immediate feedback to
teachers on their performance based on monthly module quizzes. These quizzes would provide
important information as to the quality of the course, the extent of mastery of training material,
and what measures teachers need to take (e.g., increased study-time) to improve their
performance. At the end of each course a final exam will be given, passage of which will earn
teachers "promotion points" ("puntos escalafonarios"), necessary for advancing to school
directorships.
Lastly, the instructor would certify teacher attendance with a SEP stamp in the training
schedule provided in the beginning of the anthology. This would authorize payment of small per
diems to teachers. For each class rural teachers would receive 25,000 pesos for transportation
and token incentive (about US$8), while urban teachers would receive 20,000 pesos (about
US$7). These per diems are expected to induce regularity of attendance.
(v) Supervision and Evaluation
As stated above, the GTEs would have primary responsibility for program supervision,
although the course instructors and GTC would also play important roles. At the end of each
course, the instructors would sub.nit the results of the monthly quizzes and the final exam to the
GTC and GTEs, who would then analyze this information and use it in the revision of existing
training materials and the design of new courses. In addition, at least one week per year, the
GTC would visit schools in all four states (3 specialists for rural teachers and 3 for urban in each
state), assessing the impact of the training in the classroom and getting first-hand feedback from
the teachers as to the quality of the training courses and ways to improve them.
B. Teacher Training for Bilingual Teachers
1. Training Strategy
A high priority is given to upgrading the skills of indigenous teachers, as over half of them
have not received formal teacher training courses and over a third have at most only a lower



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 8 of 13
secondary education. The project would provide one week of training during the summer months
to every indigenous teacher in Oaxaca, Guerrero, Chiapas and Hidalgo. The attendance rate is
expected to reach practically 100% of teahcers by the second year of program implementation.
Training would be conducted for eight weeks each summer at 16 training centers (14 Centros de
Integracion Social and 2 Albergues) maintained by the Department of Indigenous Education
(DGEI). Courses would be given by quaUfied teachers and technical support staff of the DGEI,
who would receive two weeks of specialized training prior to providing courses themselves.
This training would complement two other existing programs: (i) a six-month pre-service
training provided once at time of recruitment; and (ii) the on-going distance education
certification program begun in 1990, in which teachers study to earn their primary, secondary and
baccalaureate degrees (as needed), so that all Indigenous Primary teachers will eventually have
their licenciatura. (Approximately 7,000 teachers are enrolled in these programs in the four
states, which include 4 weeks of direct instruction over the summer and during school vacations.)
lherefore, most Indigenous Teachers will receive 5 weeks of direct classroom instruction each
year, although all teachers will receive at least the one week each year for three years to be
provided by the project.
As with General Primary teachers, the basic technique to be used is the "cascade" approach,
in which a central technical group trains state technical groups, who then train the course
instructors. Again similar to General Primary training, instructors will be highly qualified teachers
who share the same concerns and teaching realities as the indigenous teachers who will attend the
courses.
2. Training Topics
In the first year, the application of bilingual reading materials to be provided by the project
would be emphasized, which would include training in the basics of reading and writing in
indigenous languages. In addition, training in the use of educational materials and library books
to be distnbuted by the project would be provided. In the second year, multigrade teaching
techniques would be emphasized, as the vast majority of indigenous schools lack teachers for all
six primary grades. In the third year curriculum development and lesson planning, specially
adapted for bilingual teachers, would be emphasized.
As a complement to direct instruction, video training programs to be designed and
produced by the project would also be shown during the weeks of intensive training (see below
for description of distance training activities).
3. Program Implementation
As described above regarding General Primary teachers, the project would support: (i) the
planning and organization of the program; (ii) the preparation of course materials; (iii) the
selection and training of central and state technical groups, as well as of course instructors; (iv)
the actual provision of instruction, including compensations to course instructors; and (v) program
supervision and evaluation. The basic structure and procedures as those described for General



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 9 of 13
Primary teachers would also be used for Indigenous teachers, except there would only be the
intensive week of training to organize (for eight consecutive weeks).
In addition, because the courses will be given at 16 regional centers with fu&l lodging and
eating facilities, the project would also finance the rehabilitation and re-equipping of the 16
centers. This wifl avoid payments of per diems to teachers and result in considerable savings
(room and board costs are estimated at only US$2.20 per day compared to US$20 per day for
rural teachers during intensive classes).
Also different from the training strategy proposed for General Primary teachers, all
supervisors and sector chiefs would attend the training of the course instructors. This is so
supervisors can provide continuous pedagogicaltechnical support to teachers throughout the
school year as part of their school visit routine.
In addition to the direct training descnbed above, indigenous teachers would have several
opportunities for distance education. Radio programs would be produced by the project for
broadcast in seven different languages (40 programs per language). They would provide both
teachers and students with special didactic and linguistic support in the classroom. The radio
stations of the National Indigenous Institute (with stations and transmitters covering the four
project states) would be used for these broadcasts.
Secondly, all indigenous teachers would have access to the daily radio program (broadcast
in Spanish) which is to complement the semi-direct courses offered to rural General primary
teachers (see above). These programs, while designed to follow the curriculum of the semi-direct
course, would offer important training lessons on their own. Additional radio broadcasts
promoting community participation and proposing practical applications of academic subjects to
daily rural life would be transmitted, one program per week for three years (156 programs
overall).
Third, all indigenous schools will receive a set of audiocassettes which cover the full range
of subjects to be taught at the primary level. These audiocassettes are intended to provide direct
support to the teacher in the classroom, particularly tc those working in multigrade schools, and
will be directed at students. In this sense, the audiocassettes will not have an explicit training
function for teachers, although quality programmed teaching materials typically have a training
element for teachers in that they provide teachers with new ways to present material.! Finally,
bilingual teachers working in the state of Oaxaca will be able to watch educational television
programs produced as part of the pilot Tele-Primaria project in that state.
    These are the same audiocassettes which will be distnbuted to General Primary and
CONAFE instructors.



- 67 -
Attachment I
Page 10 of 13
C Training for Community Instructors (CONAAE)
The project would assist in financing two types of training for CONAFE's community
instructors: initial training over the summer (during which secondary school graduates receive 10
weeks of intensive teacher training); and monthly in-service training during the school year.
Given that community instructors have only a secondary level of education, this fairly intensive
pre- and in-service training is made compulsory for all of them.
For initial training the project would finance audio-visual equipment for each of the 26
training centers in the three project states, as well as the production of teacher training videos
and printed instructional manuals which would accompany the videos. (Note: these programs
would also be used for Indigenous and some General Primary teacher training, see Part m for
eplanation.)
For in-service training, the project would finance room, board and transport costs of the
approximately 1,200 CONAFE instructors (expected to grow to 1,800 by the end of the project),
so that they could attend monthly weekend training sessions at the 26 centers Estimated costs
are just US$10 per weekend. During these sessions, the audio-visual equipment and material
mentioned above would also be used.
D. Training for Teacher Trainers
The project would finance six different semi-schooled, 3-month training courses for teacher
trainers working in the Normal Schools and branches of the National Pedagogic University in the
project states. Teacher trainers would use self-study guides and attend classes twice a month on
weekends, four hours per weekend; attendance to at least one course per year would be
compulsory. In addition, monthly seminars and workshops would be held (one in each state),
covering such topics as multigrade teaching techniques; new methodologies for teaching
mathematics, reading and writing; creative application of educational materials, educational
evaluation and administration.
E. Distance Education and Training Activities
In all the activities described above, distance education and training technologies would be
used. For a clearer picture of exactly what these activities will consist of, the following is a
description of the different technologies to be used.
1. Video Training Programs with Instructional Manuals
A total of 60 15-minute video programs (with instructional manuals) would be produced by
the project, 40 in the first year and 20 in the second. The first 25 programs would be common
for all three educational modalities (General Primary, Indigenous and CONAFE) and would cover
reading and writing (8 programs), mathematics (6 programs), the natural and social sciences (8
programs), and other common topics (1 program each for art, physical education/health, and



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 11 of 13
integration of the school and community). 15 additional "modality-specific" programs would be
produced for General Primary, Indigenous and CONAFE teachers (5 programs each).
In the second year 20 more video programs would be produced for both General Primary
and Indigenous teachers (10 for each). [Note: Additional CONAFE programs are not necessary
because the instructors change every year, so the first year's programs can be seen over successive
years]. Television-video equipment would be provided under the project to the indigenous and
CONAFE training centers as well as to about 50 selected centers for primary school teachers.
Over the life of the project, these programs should benefit at least 8,355 CONAFE
instructors and tutors, 13,353 Indigenous teachers, and 13,500 General Primary teachers. It is
important to point out, however, that SEP plans to reproduce these video programs for use in
numerous other states, thereby greatly increasing the likely size of the beneficiary group and
reducing per teacher costs.
2. Audiocassettes as Instructional Aids
Over the life of the project 270 audio programs (about 15 minutes each) would be
produced, 180 for use by all three modalities (General Primary, Indigenous and CONAFE) and 90
modality-specific programs (30 for each). These cassettes accompanied with manuals would be
used by teachers in the classroom as direct instructional aids, particularly important in rural,
multigrade schools where the teacher cannot teach all grades at once. Every school in the four
states would receive one complete set of audio programs and a tape recorder for their use. While
these cassettes are arguably to provide instructional support in the classroom (rather than for
teacher training), their usage by the teacher will result in teacher acquisition of new teaching
techniques which can be used with or without the audiocassettes.
3. Radio Training Programs
540 radio programs of a duration of about 15 minutes each, would be produced over the
life of the project, one program per school day (180 days per year) for three years. These
programs would be broadcast by state and commercial radio stations making use of free time
guaranteed by law, and would, for the most part, follow the semi-direct training programs for
General Primary teachers described in Section A. Other topics to be covered include diffusion
and explanation of the Education Modernization Program, as well as institutional concerns
affecting all teachers, such as union elections and changing personnel rules ("la carrera
magisterial").
4. Indigenous Radio Training Programs
In addition to the 540 radio programs to be broadcast in Spanish, 280 radio programs will
be produced and broadcast in seven indigenous languages (40 programs for each language) by the
radio stations of the National Institute for the Indigenous Population. These programs will be
designed to complement the bilingual reading materials to be distributed by the project.



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 12 of 13
5. Radio Series for Community Participation
In order to increase the participation of the community and parents in educational
activities, a series of 156 radio programs will be produced (52 per year) for broadcast on a weekly
basis. Parents will be encouraged to send their children to school, to follow sound health and
nutritional practices, and to play an active role in school maintenance and vigilance of teacher
attendance in their schools. Practical examples applying lessons learned in school to daily rural
life will also be included, in part to demonstrate the importance and relevance of a completed
primary education.
6. Tele-Primaria Pilot Project in Oaxaca State
The Tele-Primaria Pilot project would provide direct instructional classes to students
covering the full range of the primary school curriculum. One hundred eighty 15-minute
programs would be produced for each grade, for a total of 1080 programs. In the first year
programs for grades one and three would be produced; in the second year grades two and five
would be covered; and in the third year programs for grades four and six would complete the
primary level grades. The state television of Oaxaca would be responsible for producing and
transmitting these pilot programs.
In addition to financing the production of these programs, the project would support the
acquisition of 300 televisions and antennae for placement in a sample of schools in Oaxaca.
While the initial production costs for this activity are slightly high, they are very low in
comparison with television-education programs in other countries and will become even lower as
the programs are used by SEP in non-project states. A strong evaluation element of this activity
will provide important information as to the advisability of extending the coverage of this
program.
7. CONAFE Campaigns
Finally, radio, television and poster campaigns recruiting "community instructors" (actually
15-18 year old adolescents who have finished their lower secondary education) for CONAFE
schools would be supported under the project. Additional campaigns raising money for CONAFE
from the private sector, non-governmental organizations and international donor agencies would
also be supported.
Implementation. Overall responsibility for program planning, design and implementation
would rest with the Educational Television Unit of the SEP (UTE) who would appoint a general
coordinator and a technical committee composed of representatives from the three different
primary education modalities (DGEP, DGEI and CONAFE). This technical committee assisted
with technicians contracted under the project would define the detailed contents of the various
programs over a period of eight to ten months. Production would then be contracted out under
the supervision of the technical committee and the program coordinator. Implementation would
thus be gradual with focus on the first year of the project on planning and design. Production
would take place over the following three years.



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MATRIX OF TRAINING MODALITIES AND GROUPS OF TEACHERS TO BE TRAINED
TEACHER GROUP
TRAINING                  RURAL           URBAN                             COMMUNITY
GENERAL    GENERAL    INDIGENOUS  INSTRUCTORS  TEACHER
MODALITY                  PRIMARY          PRIMARY         PRIMARY          CONAFE             TRAINERS
INTENSIVE COURSE
(40 hoursAyear)                        yes              yes              yes                no                no
Cost/Hour/Teacher                     $1.64            $1.24            $2.37
SEMI-DIRECr COURSE
(56 hours/year)                        yes              yes               no                no               yes
Cost/Hour/Teacher                     $1.65            $1.34                                                1S.59
MONTHLY WEEKEND TRNG.
(90 hours/year)                        no               no                no               yes                no
Cost/Hour/Teacher                                                         .               $1.89        _
RADIO TRAINING
(45 hours/year)                       yes               yes              yes               yes               yes
Cost/Hour/Teacher                    $0.07             $0.07            $0.07             $0.07             $0.07
VIDEO TRSAINING
(15 hours)                            yes               yes              yes               yes               yes
Cost/Hour/reacher                     $1.40            $1.40            $1.40             $1.40             $1.40
AUDIOCASSETIlES
(70 hours)                            yes              yes               yes               yes               no
Cost/Hourfreacher                     $0.03            $0.03            $0.03             $0.03
RADIO INDIGENA
(70 hours)                             no               no               yes               no                no
Cost/HourrTeacher                                                       $0.10                                                 >
TELE-0   CA C A
(270hc   ,                            yes              yes               yes               no                no            w   If
Cost/IoiHou :facher                  $0.24             $0.24            $0.24                                              o
MON7TL; ' ED'N WORKSHPS
(32 hours @ 3 years)                   no               no               no                no                yes
Cost/Hour/Teacher                                                                                           $1.89



- 71 -
Attachment 2
Page 1 of I
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1:   CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM FOR
IMPROVEMENT OF EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES 1/
QUANT_TY
CIVIL WORKS                    (Figures in parentheses refer to the SEP program)
Year 1    Year2    Yeur3    Year 4      Year        TOTAL  UNIT COSTS
IIIII                                                  (in US$)
New Classrooms                   0        474       506        559       586      2,124
0      (279)      (298)     (329)      (345)    (1,250)
Rehabilitated Classrooms       327        654      2,288     2,615       654      6,538
(194)     (387)   (1,355)    (1,548)     (387)   (3,870)
TOTAL CLASSROOMS              327      1,127      2,794     3,174      1,240     8,662       10,101
(194)     (666)   (1,652)   (1,877)      (732)   (5,120)
New Support Facilities 2/        0        239       254        282       293      1,068
0      (143)      (152)     (169)      (176)     (640)
Rehab. Support Facilities 2/   239        477      1,668     1,906       477      4,767
(143)     (270)   (1,000)    (1,117)     (270)    (2,800)
TOTAL SUPPORT                 186        560      1,502     1,708       605      4,561        7,854
FACILTIES 2/                 (143)     (413)   (1,152)   (1,286)       (446)   (3,440)
Furniture for Classrooms       327       1,127     2,794     3,174      1,240     8,662          541
(194)     (666)   (1,652)   (1,877)      (732)   (5,120)
Furniture for Support Facil.     17        99        188       212       114        631          541
(10)      (60)     (113)      (128)      (69)      (380)
Establishment Repairs
General                        59        117       411        470       117      1,174        8,309
(35)      (70)     (243)      (278)      (70)      (695)
Structural Reinforcement       34         69       241        276        69        689       21,447
(34)      (69)     (241)      (276)      (69)      (689)
Furniture                      59        117       411        470       117      1,174          541
(35)      (70)      143)      (278)      (70)      (695)
Note: The civil works program will be carried out jointly by the SEP and the Solidaridad Program.
Although SEP will monitor the total program, 100% of structural reinforcement and about 60% of
other civil works will be carried out under the project (see SAR, para. 3.31).
It: Includes equipment.
2/: Includes sanitary facilities (about 85%) and offices and supply rooms (about 15 %).



- 72 -
ANNIEX6
Attachmentl
Page 1 of 2
LEICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR STORAGE
1.         Estimates of the physical space requirements for storage of educational supplies have been based
on four types of materials to be provided by the project: (1) textbooks; (2) supplementary educational materials;
(3) fumiture for primary schools; and (4) preventive maintenance materials.
2.         The space needed for textbooks is estimated by multiplying the number of students in each state by
the volume of S textbooks. Requirements for supplementary materials are based on the unit volume of each
package of materials, multiplied by the number of packages to be provided by the project (see Didactic Materials
project description).
3.         Storage needs for school furniture are based on a typical per classroom package consisting of 18
benches, 1 blackboard, and 1 teacher's desk and chair. The number of furniture packages for each state have
been defined as follows: Chiapas, 219; Guerrero, 166; Hidalgo, 131; and Oaxaca, 231. Fmally, preventive
maintenance supplies include the following materials: paint and sealants; cement; windowpanes; miscellaneous
plumbing and electrical cupplies; and bathroom supplies. Quantities and volumes for each of these materials
have been calculated.
4.          Warehouses would be modular, each module providing 96 M2 of space. The size of each
warehouse would vary from 1 to 3 modules, depending on the needs of the school region served by that
warehouse. A total of 43 warehouses would eventually be built, consisting of 49 modules in alL They would first
supplement and gradually replace limited and inadequate rented or borrowed facilities. The progressive nature
of warehouse construction would permit assessments of the storage capacity actually required for .he project,
which would in turn result in adjustments in the size of successive warehouses or in the search for alternative
approaches.
5.          With regards to personnel, each warehouse would be staffed by four persons to be provided by the
SEP: an inventory control specialist, two assistants and a night watchman. In addition, each warehouse would be
complemented by a standardized package of equipment and furnishings, and one 3 1/2 ton truck The phased
implementation of the program would allow for adjustments on the basis of experience.
6.          The justification for the purchase of vehicles by SEP is based on the following calculations. Given
the total volume of materials to be stored (50,809 m3; see Table 1), the number of trips necessary to distnbute
the materials to the supervision zones would (assuming a vehicle capacity of 3.5 m3) amount to about 14,500.
The cost of private transportation was calculated to amount to:
US$0.50 per km x 100-150 km per trip x 14,500 trips per year = USS725,000-US$1,000,000
Alternatively, with 43 35-ton trucks, the cost to SEP would be:
Vehicle cost (US$17,000 x 43) amortized over 5 years  = US$146,200
Gas/Maintenance (20% vehicle cost/year x 5 years     = US$146,200
Drivers (43 x US$180/month x 13 months)              = USS 98.900
TOTAL:                                   = US$391,300



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
7.   Actual calculations of the physical space requirements for the warehouses can be seen in
Table 1 below:
Table 1: WAREHOUSE SPACE REQUIREMENTS
By State
TOTAL               NUMBER
TOTAL     PER    AReA       e 75Z     OF
VOLUME   VOLUME    MONTE  REQUIRED  CAPACITY MODULES
MATERIAL    (m3)    (m3)/l   (m3)/2   (m2)13  (=2)/4    (96m2)/5
CHIAPAS      Texts         3107    15490      1550     1075     1432          15
Did. Mat.    6351
Furniture    3414
Maint.       2618
GUERRERO     Texts         2855    12124      1213      841     1121          12
Did. Mat.    4463
Furniture    2587
Maint.       2219
HIDALGO      Texts         1799     8495      850       589      785           8
Did. Mat.    3124
Furniture    2042
Maint.       1530
OAXACA       Texts         3115    14700      1470     1020     1359          14
Did. Mat.    5821
Furniture    3601
Maint.       2163
TOTAL        Texts        10876    50809     5081      3523     4698          49
Did. Mat.   19759
Furni,ture   11644
Maint.       8530
Notes:  /1:  Sum of Material Volumes for each State.
/2: Based on Warehouse Utilization of 10 months per year.
13: Storage up to 3m in height, adding 30Z more space for movement
and other space requirements, and adding a tolerance factor of
60% (202 for scheduling problems, 202 for packaging space, and
20Z for storage of other materials).
/4: Based on an estimate of 751 capacity utilization per month.
/5s Divide Column (5) by Modules of 96m2.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 4
Page I of 8
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDIES
Ihese terms of reference are for the five studies described in paras. 3.54 and 3.55. They
have been discussed and agreed with the Bank during negotiations.
A.  Evaluation of Proiect Impact and Cost-Effectiveness Analvsis.
Objectives of the Study. The objectives of the study are: (i) to evaluate the impact of each
project component and of the overall project on children's learning achievement and on
repetition, dropout and completion rates; and (ii) to measure the cost-effectiveness of each
of the comnponents or educational inputs.
Schedule. January 1992 to May/June 1996.
(I) Impact Evaluation
Data reauirements.
*    Longitudinal data should be gathered on two student cohorts, one in the project area
and another in some other state (control group).
*    The sample selection of the two student cohorts should allow for representativity of
the different types of primary schools (federal general, federal bilingual, CONAFE
and state schools), of urban and rural schools, and-within rural-of incomplete and
complete schools.
The variables to be included in the questionnaires should provide a measure of each
child's cognitive and educational achievetnent and should also provide detailed
information on the school and socioeconomic environment as well as on the child's
own characteristicsY Close collaboration with the DGEIR for the questionnaire
design would be required as the tests of cognitive achievement developed by the
DGEIR would be used. The list of variables collected by the DGEIR relative to
school inputs, family and community characteristics, and socio-economic environment
could also be usefuL
I/ A suggested list of variables to be included in the questionnaires is provided in the Note
below.



- 75 -
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 8
Data collection should take place at no less than 3 points of time over the project
life. The first data collection, to get a base line survey, should be done in close
collaboration with the DGEIR This base line survey could simply be a subsample of
the survey conducted by the DGEIR among first and third grade students at the end
of the first academic year (1991/92). If necessary, some additional variables could be
added in a supplementary questionnaire. Thus for the fint data collection, survey
costs would only be necessary for the control group. Subsequent data collection
should occur after students have been exposed to (at least some of) the project
educational inputs. The second survey could take place one year later and the third,
towards the end of the project Ufe.
Consultants' Proposals, to be submitted to SEP and the Bank for review by October 31, 1991 and
approval by December 1991, should include clear specifications of the following:
(a)  sample and survey design along the lines defined above;
(b) the logistics and schedule of field work and data collection process, including
supervision of field work and steps to guarantee a high response rate and to reduce
the attrition rate;
(c)  the logistics of data processing;
(d)  the statistical models and methods of analysis to be used: the consultants should
demonstrate their technical capacity in using statistical inference models and
multivariate analysis; the analysis should allow for the differentiation between school
and non-school factors and for a proper measurement of the impact of each
educational input, holding constant the impact of others;
(e)  report schedule: a report should be requested after each survey; preliminary results
based on the first two surveys should be presented as part of the mid-term review
(September 30, 1994); a final report based on the longitudinal analysis should be
presented at the end of the project;
(f) implementation schedule specifying the list of tasks to be done and their respective
duration;
(g) detailed costs by type of activity and type of expenditures: both the implementation
schedule and the detailed costs would allow the contract to be divided into several
steps and payments to allow Bank review and approval on intermediary steps, such as
(1) review of questionnaires, and (2) review of fist rep:.-t; contract award would also
be conditioned on data tapes and files to be made availabAe to the SEP and to the
Bank;
(h)  the coordination mechanism to be used with the DGEIR for the survey design, the
use of cognitive achievement tests and the base line survey,



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 4
Page 3 of 8
(i)  coordination with the project PCUs and the SEP administration for the gathering of
relevant information for the sample design and for the data collection process; and
(j) coordination and collaboration with international consultants, specifying the
respective tasks and responsibilities of local and international consultants.
(11) Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
The objective of the second part of the study is to relate the measure of the impact of each
additional educational input provided under the project to its cost in order to evaluate its cost-
effectiveness. This part of the study could be carried out by a different group of researchers if it
were found preferable to do so.
Tne most inportant aspects of the project to be covered under this analysis are the
following: (1) teacher training programs (What is the cost-effectiveness of the different types of
programs--direct in-person, semi-schooled, through videos and radio-cssettes etc.-provided under
the project? Additive or multiplicative effects should be taken into consideration); (2) provision
of didactic materials; (3) distnbution system improvements; (4) supervision system improvements;
(5) school construction and rehabilitation; and (6) teacher incentive program. The total cost of
each project intervention has to be measured, taldng into account all its components (equipment,
furniture, salaries, etc.). Private costs incurred by families and communities should also be
measured. This includes the opportunity costs of sending children to schooL
Consultants' Proposals to be submitted to SEP and the Bank for review and approval by
December 1991, should clearly indicate:
(a)  their knowledge of the details of each intervention;
(b)  the coordination mechanism to be used with: (1) the SEP, in particular with the
team in charge of project monitoring; and (2) the research group in charge of the
project evaluation, if different;
(c)  the methodology to be used to measure the costs of each intervention;
(d)  the measure of impact which will be used: retention rate or level of cognitive
achievement;
(e)  the implementation schedule and report schedule; and
(f)  detailed costs by category and type of activity.



- 77 -
ANNEX6
Attachment 4
Page 4 of 8
B.   Bilingual Reading Books Study.
Objective of Study. The objective is to evaluate the rate of utilization and acceptance of bilingual
books by teachers, students and communities as well as their impact on children's
achievement.
Schedule. From June 1993 to May/June 1996.
Reports. A preliminary report based on the introduction of first grade books should be part of
the mid-term review. A second report should be done by July 1994 and a final report by
December 1995.
Consultant's proposals to be submitted to SEP and the Bank for review and approval by
December 1992, should include the following research tasks:
(a)  assessment of the rate of utilization of the books by teachers and students (ie.,
proportion using the books and frequency of use);
(b)  assessment of the quality of the training provided to teachers vi- direct instruction
and radio programs, and of the relative effectiveness of each form of training;
(c)  evaluation of the degree of acceptance of books by teachers, students and
communities, differentiating according to indigenous groups, school location and
degree of bilingualism in the community,
(d)  evaluation of quality of material, timeliness of distnbution, degree of program
supervision; and
(e)  evaluation of impact on children's ability to integrate into the school system, read and
learn Spanish, and get promoted to the next grade.
Instruments to be used to carry out these tasks should be specified, with costs and
implementation schedule. Significant field work is required, and a survey on a sample of schools
would be needed. Close collaboration with the DGEIR, which is in charge of program
monitoring, is needed. Collaboration with the DGEIR for a specific survey design would also be
required.
C.  Teacher Incentive Program.
Objective of Study. The objectives of the study are: (i) to evaluate the impact of monetary
incentives on teacher turnover, punctuality and dedication; (ii) to assess the efficiency of
the control and payment mechanisms put in place; and (iii) to measure the impact of the
program on teacher reassignmen. within the state. This shtdy would, as of the first year,
provide useful information for program monitoring and possible needs for adjustments. It



- 78 -
ANNE) 6
Attachment 4
Page 5 of 8
would also complement the impact evaluation study, which focuses on the effect on
children's education achievement.
Schedule. A first evaluation should be made at the end of the first year of implementation
(academic year 1991/92); a second should be part of the mid-term review; and a third
should be made during the last year of the project
Consultants' Proposals to be submitted to SEP and the Bank for review by October 31, 1991 and
approval by December 1991, should include the following research tasks:
(a) review of characteristics of selected localities, including geographic and
socioeconomic information, type of school, enrollment and past records of teacher
absenteeism;
(b) review of characteristics of beneficiaries, including age, education, professional
experience, past mobility (location and tenure of previous job assignments), family
characteristics (including number and age of children and place of husband's
residence);
(c) record of number of effective days of teaching before and after the introduction of
incentives; record of proportion of teachers requesting a transfer; record of changes
in dropout and repetition rates of students in beneficiary schools;
(d) evaluation cf the effectiveness of the community participation mechanism to control
teachers' compliance with their obligations;
(e) evaluation of the payment mechanism (administrative costs, regularity of payments,
union problems); and
(f) impact on teacher allocation within each state, in particular, on the reassignment of
teachers between urban and rural schools.
Proposals should specify how each of the above tasks would be performed. Implementation
schedule and detailed costs should be provided. This study must be carried out in close
collaboration with the State PCUs in charge of program monitoring. It should also include a
survey on a sample of beneficiary schools.
D.  lV Pilot Experiment.
Qbiective of the Study. The study would evaluate the impact of the pilot program and the
feasibility of its extension.
Schedu   October 1993 - June 1995. (Study should be initiated after implementation of the
Pilot experiment.)



- 79 -
ANNEX6
Attachment 4
Page 6 of 8
Consultants' Proposals. to be submitted to SEP and the Bank for review and approval by
February/March 1993, should include:
(a)  al evaluation of the quality of programs and of their relevance for the overall
curriculum;
(b)  an assessment of the acceptance level by students and teachers;
(c)  an assessment of the appropriateness of the program frequency, duration and
schedule;
(d)  an evaluation of impact on teacher performance and student achievement; ar i
(e)  a feasibility study regarding a possible extension of the experiment to other Mexican
states.
E. Study of ImDact on Behavioral and Psycholoeical Traits of Children.
Objectives of Study. The objectives of the study are: (i) to evaluate the degree to which and in
what manner the educational system inculcates values and attitudes to children (critical and
reflexive mind, sense of solidarity and responsibility, motivation, etc.); and (ii) to measure the way
in which schools and increased length of schooling change children's social behavior.
Schedule. From December 1991 to June 1995. A first evaluation should be made at the end of
May 1992; a second should take place during the last year of the project.
Consultant's Proposals to be submitted to SEP and the Bank for review and approval by
December 1991, should include clear specifications of the following:
(a)  the methodology to be used, including adequate sample and survey design or case
study design;
(b)  longitudinal data should be gathered on two student cohorts, one in the project are
and another in some other state (control group). Only a small sample size would be
necessary;
(c)  the logistics and schedule of field work, including the coordination mechanism to be
used with the DGEIR and the SEP administration;
(d) collaboration with international or national consultants specifying their respective
tasks and responsibilities; _



- 80 -
Attachment 4
Page 7 of 8
(e) detailed costs by type of activity and type of expenditures; and
(f) report schedule.
NOTE:    Suggested List of Variables to be Included In Questionnaires for Impact Evaluation
Study
Independent Variables
Student and Family
A. Student's Socioeconomic Characteristics
1.   Sex
2.   Age
3.   Urban/rural origin
4.   Ethnic origin/maternal language
5.   Nutritional status
B. Student's Educational Experience
1.   Preschool experience/age started school
2.   Commuting time between home and school
3.   Attendance record
4.   Academic qualifications
5.   Repetition
6.   Books at home
7.   Study time
&    Parents help with homework
9.   Access to distance education programs
10. Access to educational materials
11. Acceptance of educational materials
C. Student's Work (at Home, in the Field, etc.)
D. Family Background
1.   Education of father and mother
2.   Occupations of father and mother
a.   Employment status
b.   Migrant worker
3.   Family assets (as a proxy for income)
a.   Access to land (size, quality, type of crops)
b.   Durable goods
4.   Family structure
a.   Family size
b.   Age and sex of siblings
c.   Gender of head of household
d.   Type of household (nuclear family, extended, etc.)



- 81A
Attachment 4
Page 8 of 8
IL   Teacher
A.   Educational level
B.   Preservice and in-service training (at least the number and length of courses)
C.   Work experience/past job assignments/salary
D.   Place of residence
E.   Pedagogical abilities (interaction with students, utilization of time and educational
materials, etc.)
F.   Attendance record
G.  Type and frequency of supervision received during the past year
ilL School
A.   School locality
1.   Urban/rural
2.   Type of school (federal bilingual, state, private, etc.)
3.   Socioeconomic level of the community
B.   Physical conditions of the school (potable water, sanitation facilities, etc.)
C.   Physical conditions of the classroom
D.  Size of class/school in terms of numbers of students
E.   Number of teachers
F.   Numbers of classes/groups
G.  Availability of educational materials
H.  Type and frequency of supervision during the last year
IV. Principal
A.   Educational kArel
B.   Work experience
1.   As teacher
2.   As principal
C.   Preservice and in-service training (at least the number and length of courses)
D.   Place of residence
V.   Community Characteristics
Dlendent Variables
L    Cognitive achievements in Spanish and mathematics
II. Probability of promotion to the following grade



NEXICO
PRINARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Cost Sumary
MEXS                              US%                           X Totat
..............           ..........................-   X Foreign       Daes
Local   Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
A. Educ.Serv1ees N.proveIent
1. Educational Materials         152132     31702    183634           S0       11        61           17         20
2. Teacher Training              100141     17427    117568           33        6        39           15         13
3. Educational Facilities        310247     48651    358898          102        17      119           14         39
..............................    ............................................. .............................................. ..........
S.frTotal                           562520     97780    660300          184       34       218           15         72
S. Inatit. Strengthening
1. Work Incentives               204323      9571    213894           6?        3        71            4         23
2. Orgenzationminhgeemnt          23667      -S51      27118           8         1        9           13          3
3. Nonftorfng,Info.& Eval.        1553       5005      20587           5         2        7           24          2
Sub-Total                           24357      18026    261599           a0        6        87            7         28
Total SASELIKC COSTS                806093    115807    921900          264        41      305           13        100
Phy"ical  Contirqencies           37291      6312      43604          12         2       14           14          5
Price contingenies                86308     12265    9M673            31        2        33            6         11
.........................    ...........................................................  ....................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                929693    134384   10640??          30C        44      352            13       115
Values Sceled by 1000000.0 - 6/511991  15:31 
eq



mtco
PRIMARY EDUCATtON PROECT
MEXS
Project Components by Year
BSae Costs                                   Total
......... ................. ................. ................................._
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96    NMIN           USS
A. Educ.Services Iwprovsmnt
1. Educatlonal Materials              29810      72245      31373      26451      23955    183834          61
25 Teacher Training                    4979      24624      20733      35353      31879    117568          39
3. Educational Facilities              9119      73278      82775      69706    124019    358898          119
..............;........................................................
Sub-totol                               4908    170148    134881    131510    179853    660300              218
B. Instit. Strengthening
1. Uork Incentives                    10686      37243      49465      59364      57135    213894          71
2. Organitiont Nanagemnt               4724       5957       7211       5192       4034      27118          9
3. Non1torlng,info.& Eval.             2758       4405       4741       6578       2106      20587           7
........................ .................................................................................... 
Sub-total                               18168      47606      61417      71133      63275    261599          87
Total BASELINE COSTS                    62076    217754    196298    202644    24128    921900              305
Physieal Contingencies                2110      11718       9904       776       12156      43604         14
Price ContingencIes                   1091      11836      18008      26148      41491      98573         33
.............~.........................................................
Total PROJECT COSTS                     652       241308    224210    236508    296774   1064077            352
w       -u --u --      ----_u----uuu--w_3 s-aEuaUnuz                          a
Taxes                                 5751      29060      25029      23528      33605    116974          39                                                w
Forelgn Exchange                      8031      34179      26977      28294      36903    134384          44
.......................................................................................................
Vatue Scaled by 1000000.0 6/5/1991 15:32
01 
oS
sI.



MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATIWI PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                         Totals Including ContIngencies
MEXS                                                                   US$
,............................. ; ...............................................    .............................................................
1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96         Totat       1991/92   1992/93    99/94   1994/95   1995/96           Total
A. Educ.Services Iuiwpvo ent
1. Educationrl Naterlals            31070       78919     34898      30277      28259    203423              10         26        12         10          9         67
2. Teacher Training                   5246      26095      22732      39922      37229    131225              2          9          8         13         12        43
3. EtAxatlonal Facilltles            10202      84763      98239      84927    156748    434880               3         28         33        28         52        144
----s-.--***--.- ............  .............................................. -.-......- .............................................................
Sub-Total                               46518    169778    155869    155127    222237    769528                 15         63         52         51         74        25S
B. Instit. Strengthening
1. York Incentives                   10884     40315       54918     67800      67213    241130               4         13         18        22         22         s0
2. Organization.Manegement            5012       6559       8242       6145       4876     30835              2          2          3          2         2         10
3. Non1tor1ng9Info.& Evat.            2863       4656       5181       7436       2448      22584             1          2          2          2          1         7
Sub-Total                               15760      51530      68341      81381      74537    294549              6         17         23         27        25         97
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    65278    24130a    224210    236508    296774   106407?                 22         80         74         78        98        352
..............................................................................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 6/5/1991 15:32
0N
th



MEXICO
PRIMURY EDUCATION PROJECT
SV=mary Accoumts Cost Sumsry
EmS                                USS                            X Total
* ------------------------  --------------- --------      X Foreign       Base
Locat   Foreign      Total        Local  foreign    Total       Exchange     Costs
t. INVESTHEJT COSTS
........IL.....O"KS......
A. CIVIL I0RKS 
1. SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE         30744?      52461    359908           101        18      119            15         39
O. VEHICLES/EoUPHT/MATERIALS
1. VEHICLES                        11545      2686      14231            4         1        5            19          2
2. EQUIPMNET                       23764      6712      30476            8         2        10           22          3
3. MATERIALS                       61846      11419     73265           20         4        24            16         8
.... ...... ,.  .......................... ... ..........    .......................................   ....................
Sub-Total                             97155      20817    117972            32        7        39            18        13
C. RUIAN RESOURCES DEVLT.
1. TEACNER TRAINING                82222     16199      98421           27         6       33            16         11
2. TEACNER TRAINING  NATERIAL      15358        818     16176            5         0         5             5         2
3. STAFF TRAINING                    431        216       647            0         0         0           33          0
................ ................................................    ...........................   ....................
Sub-Total                             98011      17233    115244           32         6        38            15        13
D. TECH. ASSIST. 9 STUDIES
1. FOREIGN EXPERTS                  1722       1694      3416            1         1         1           SO          0
2. LOCAL EXPERTS                   16751        486     17237            6         0         6             3         2
Sub-Total                             18473       2180     20653            6         1         7            11         2
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,..,,,,...........    ....................-Oc
Total INVESTNENT COSTS               521086      92691    6137m            171       33       203            15        67
*.. .... *............................................ ...........................   ........................................ ..........t
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EDUC. LOFFfICE SUPPLIES            71977      17526     89504            23        6        30            20        10
S. SALARIES AND ALLO WACES           184880        819    185699            61        0        61             0        20
C. OPERATING COSTS
1. VEHICLE OPERATIIIG COSTS         7265       1593       858            2         1        3            18          1
2. WIILOING MAINTENANCE            1582        2290     18119            5         1         6           13          2
3. EQUIPMENT OP.& MAINTEN.          5057        86       5943             2        0         2            15         1
Sib-Totat                             28150       4770     32920             9        2        11            14         4
total RECURRENT COSTS                285007      23115    308122            94        8       102             a        33
.................   ......  W ........................... ....... ;;................ ...   ....................
Total BASELINE COSTS                 806093     115807    921900           264       41       305          ' 13       100
Physical Contingencles             37291       6312     43604           12         2        14           14          5
Price Contingencies                86308      12265     98573           31         2       33             6         11
...;;;.... i  ....   ...    .................... .......   ..................._._ 
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 99693    13484   106077              308        44       352            13       115                         p)
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 .    6/5/1991  15:32 .                  ..
- 4



IIEXIOO
PalmyI EDUTION PROJECT
NMX
Summry Accunts by Year
aeef Costs                                  Fore1gn Exchange
_...............................................  ..........
1991/92   199/93   1993/%S   1994/95   1995/96  ' Total            X    AMout
1. INVESTENT COSTS
................... 
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. tCNOOL INFRASTRUCTIRE           9119      3060      55824     67763    114142    35908            1S      52461
t. VENICLES/EQUIIT/MATERIALS
1. VEHICLES                         307      4251       4m        2881       2420     14231           19      2666
2. EQUIPMENT                       5239      17241      4623      .M06       1286     30476           22      6712
3. MTERIALS                       11358     39773       9727      7452       4956     73265           16     11419
SMbtotal                             16904     61265      18722     12419       862    117972            18     20817
C. NtIAN RESOURCES DEVLT.
1. TEACHER TRAINING                1348     19434      16974     31935     28730      98421           16     16199
2. TEACHER TRAINING MATERIAL       2861      3815       3461      3120       2919     16176            5       818
3. STAFF TRAINING                   129        129       129       129        129       647          33        216
Sb-total                              4338     23379      2056      35184      31779    11524            15     17233
D. TECH. ASSIST. * SUWIES
1. FOREIGN EXPERTS                  399       684        984       267       1082      3416          SO       1694
2. LOCAL EXPERTS                   4337      3964       3783      2728       2426     17237           3        486
Sub-total                             4736       4648      4767      2995       350T     20653           11      2180
6 ~~~~ ...... ;w........................................ ................................. 
Total INESTMENT COSTS                35098    1731    129877    118361    15891    6137                  1S     92691                                              o
11. RECtURRENT COSTS
...................
E. EDUC. 9 OFFICE SUPPLIES           16218      17510     18455      18678     18643     8904            20     17526
F.  SALARIES AND ALLUWNAES           10418      26198     42446     55224      51413    185699            0       819
0. OPERATING COSTS
1. VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS          240      1090       1964      2540      3024        85           18       1593
2. BUILDING MAINTENUACE               0        196      2576      6016       9331     18119           13      2290
3. EQUIPMET OP.& UINTfNR.           102       410        980      1N25      2627       5943          15         86
Sub-total                              342      1695       5520     10382      14981     32920          14       4770
................................. .................................. ....................
Total RECUIRRENT COSTS               26978     45402      66421     84283     85037    308122            8      23115
.............................................................  ................................ ..........
Total BASELINE COSTS                 62076    217754    196298    202644    243128    921900            13    115807
Physical ContingencIes             2110     11718      9904       7716     12156      43604          14      6312
Price Contingencies                1091     11836      18008     26148     41491      98573          12      12265
.............................................................  ................................ ..........
Totat PROJECT COSTS                  65278    241308    224210    236508    296774   1064077            13    134384
--.1"Dw=s ..........m.u.........................m. -u-.---.-U    333U8. . SE    cS"u=3, a
Taxes                              5751     29060     25029      23528     33605    116974            0         0                             S
forelgn Exchange                   8031     34179     26977      28294     36903    134384          100    134384                            04
.................................................................................................................. 0
Vatues seated by 1000000.0  61511991  ISM3                                                                                                      %Af
a A1



ItEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Suinary Account by Project Cop2onent
"EXS
EXacatIo             Educatio                                                    Physucat           PrIce
nol                  nol      Work    OrganIte  Nonitori                    Contirgencsem      Contingencfes
Naterial   Teacher  Faciliti  Incentlv  tion/Nan  ng,1nfo* -----------  ------------------
s     Training      es        es       agement   L Eval.      )tal          S     Awmst       I   Amunt
1. INSTMENT COSTS
_...._..............
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SCHOOL INFIASTRUCURE                   0         0    324594      31532       3782          0    359908         10     35991       12     42799
3. WHICLES/ESI/NATERIALS
1. VENICLES                               0         0          0      11947      2284          0     14231          5       712       10      1426
2. ECUIPNENT                          24658      1752          0        458       804       2805     30476          5      1470        6      1940
3. MATEE?4LS                          73256         9          0          0         0          0     73265          5      3663        7      5067
_........................................................................................................................................ 
Sub-total                              97915      1760          0      12405      30o8       2805    11772           5      SU58        7      8e33
C. NLAN RES0URCES DEvLT.
1. TEACHER TRAINING                       0     98421          0          0         0          0     98421          0         0       11     11147
2. TEACHER TRAINING NATERIAL             .0     16176          0          0         0          0     16176          5       811        9      1480
3. STAFF TRAINING                         0          0         0          0       64?          0       647          0         0        9        57
Sib-total                                  0    114597          0          0       647          0    11524           1       811       11     12684
0. TECH. ASSIST. 9 STUDIES
1. FOREIGN EXPERTS                        0         0          0         0          0      3416       3416          0         0       10       337                                 OD
2. LOCAL EXPERTS                         13       278          0          0     15113       1833     17237          4       756        8      1403
................................................................................................................|
Sib-total                                 13       278          0          0     15113       5249     20653          4       756        8      1740
............. .........;..........................................................................................
Total INmESTNENT COSTS                 97928    11635    324594       43937      22630       804    6137             7     43402       1l     6657
It. ItECtRRET COSTS
A.EMEDUC.  OfflCE SUWPPIES             83698        62          0          0      2562       3182     89504          0         0        9      8142
O. SALAlIES AND ALLOWANCES              1390       513      14060    160907          0       E830    185699          0.      202       It     20474
C. OPERATING COSTS
1. VEHICLE OPERATIOG COSTS                0         0          0      7m2        1583          0      8858         0          0       2       1039
2. WILDING MAINTENANCE                    0         0      16233       1693       192          0     18119          0         0        4      2499
3. EQWIPMENT OP.& HAINTEN.              s81       358       4012        81        152        522      5943          o         a        3       r62
........................................................ ........................................................................................................_
Sib-total                                818       358      20245      9050       1927        522     32920          0         0       13      4301
........... ;w ..................................................................................................
Total RECORRENT COSTS                 85906        933      34305    16957          88     12534    308122          0        202      it      32917
Total BASELINE COSTS                 13834    117568    35888    213894          27118     20587    921900          5      436       11     s8573               S
Physical Continger les               5098        845      32459      37m        1288       140      43604
Price ContIngencifes                 14491     12812      43522     23463       2429      1857      98573         5       4440
Total PROJECT COSTS                  2034       131225    434880    241130       30835     22584   1064077          5      48044       9     98573                0
_|s. g~~~~Xx" m. B            . s        g s-.St                                      s        .=^>
Taxes                               26114       1884     64465      18852       3935      1724    116974          6       6939                                  -4
ForeIgn Exchange                    35057      19492     59119      11334       3864      5517    134384          s      6955
........V s            .03............. ................
Vatues Seated by 1000000.0 6/5/19P1 15:31



MEXICO
PRIKARY EDUTION PUlECT
Sumiary Accoits ttb Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                     Totals Including Continh cles
HEXS                                                                Is
_,..................................................................................... ........................... ............................................ __..____
1991/92   1992/93   1993I 4   1994/95   199S/96       Total      s991/92    992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96       Total
1. INWST   COStS
...... .......... _.
A. CIVIL WMS
1. SCWNOL IluFRSTIIEtRE            10202     96078    102651      3M805    14S962    438698              3        32        34         28        48        145
S. VEWICLES/EMPNT/NTEUI ALS
1. WNIcLES                           328      4694       4991      3401       2954     16368             0         2         2          1         1      ,5
2. EUtIPNENT                        S595      180        5278      2462       1570     33886             2         6          2         1         1         11
3. MATERIALS                       12128     43915      11105      8797       6049     81995             4        1S          4         3         2         27
Sdb-Totel                             11051     6759       21374     14661      10573    132249             6        22          7         5         3         44
C. NIUIAI RESOURCES OEVLT.
1. TEACHER TRAINING                 1371     20436      18456     35904      33400    109567             0         7         6         12        1t        36
2. TEACER TRAININGI ATERIAL         3057      4213       3951      3683       3564     18468             1         1          1         1         1          6
3. STAFf TRAINING                    132        136       141        146       150       70              0         0          0         0         0          0
..................   ............................................. ....... ............ ................... ................................. .................................
Sub-totsl                              45S9      24785     2254      39733      37114    128739             2         8          7        13        12         43
0. TECd. ASSIST. & STIDIES
1. FOREIGN EXP!RTS                   406       719       1070       300       12S8      3753            0          0         0         0          0         1                 to
2. LOCAL EXPERTS                    4585      4349       4299      3203       2961     19396             2         1         1          1         1         6
Sth-Total                              4991      50W        5369      3503       4218     23149             2         2         2          1         1         8
Total IESTMENT COSTS                  7803         193520    151943  41  2    19788    722836              13                  50         47        6S       239
It.  EOAEUT C05TS
A. BUd. *OfFICEUWPLIES                16494      18413     20067     21000      21673     97646             5         6         7          7         7        32
B. SALAIES AID ALLOWINCES             10633     27592      46196     62134      5917    206375             4          9        15        21         20        86
C. IPEIRATINO COSTS
1. VElILE OPESATIOCOSTS              24       114       2136       2856      3516      9"I              0          0                   1          1         3
2. WILDING NAIUTENAMCE                 0       206       2801      6764     10647      20618            0          0         1         2          4         7
3. EWIPIIENT OP.L IINTER.             04       431       1065      2052      3053       6705            0          0         0         1          1         2
SLb-Totel                               348      1783      6002      11672     17416      3m1              0          1         2         4         6         12
........................................................................................................................
Total RECIARENT COSTS                 27474     47787     72267      94806     98906    341241             9         16        24        31        33        1PJ
Total PROJECT COSTS                   65278    241308    224210    236508    296774   1064077             22        80         74        78        98        35Q
Va(ues Scaled b  t1000000.O  6/S/1991  15:31



- 89 -
ANNEx 8
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in USS million)
BARK       QUARTER        DISBURSED   CUMULATIVE   DISBURSED   BALANCE
FISCAL      ENDING          DURING       AMOUNT      AS Z OF        OF
YEAR                       QUARTER                    TOTAL       LOAN
92     Dec.  31, 1991       12.0        12.0                    238.0
March 31, 1992        1.0        13.0                    237.0
June  30, 1992        2.0        15.0         6          235.0
93     Sept. 30, 1992        4.0        19.0                    231.0
Dec.  31, 1992        4.0        23.0                    227.0
March 31, 1993       10.0        33.0                    217.0
June  30, 1993       10.0        43.0        17          207.0
94     Sept. 30, 1993       16.0        59.0                    191.0
Dec.  31, 1993       16.0        75.0                    175.0
March 31, 1994       16.0        91.0                    159.0
June  30, 1994       16.0       107.0        43          143.0
95     Sept. 30, 1994       20.0       127.0                    123.0
Dec.  31, 1994       20.0       147.0                    103.0
March 31. 1995       20.0       167.0                     83.0
June  30, 1995      20.0        187.0        75           63.0
96     Sept. 30, 1995       16.0       203.0                     47.0
Dec.  31, 1995       16.0       219.0                     31.0
March 31, 1996       12.0       231.0                     19.0
June  30, 1996        8.0       239.0        96           11.0
97     Sept. 30, 1996        8.0       S47.0                      3.0
June  30, 1996        3.0       250.0       100            0.0
&/s  Includes Special Account deposit of US$12.0 million.
Notes  Retroactive financing is expected to be about US$6.0 million.



- 90 
AN9
Page I of 3
ME74CO
PRlMARY E2UC&TIO PROJEC
IMPLJEMENTATION SCHEDULE c/
ACTIViTIE-                 1991/92   1923   199314   199495   1 99596|
OVERALL MANAGEMENT
Establish the PCU and SPCUs                  100%
Develop standard bidding docs.              100%
and contracts for civil
works, goods and consultants
Conduct Anmual Implementtion Review                    100%      100%      100%       100%
Conduct Mid-Term Implementation Review                           100%
Conduct independet audits                              100%      100%      100%       100%
DEDACrIC MATERUALS
Conduct survey of school needs               100%
Purchase and distribute didactic nat.         10%       44%       17%       15%        14%
LIRARY BOOKS
Conduct radio advertising camaignp            10
Print, package and distribute books          53%        11%       11%       12%        12%
Bookrases and library cards                  53%        11%       11%       12%        12%
BILINGUAL READING BOOKS
Acquire office equipment and fwuiture        100%
Revise/Develop, print and distnrbute
reading books for:
Gnde 1                                             60%                  40%
Grade 2                                                      60%                  40%
Grades 3 & 4                                                            70%       30%
(onL)



- 91 -
(c40L)                                NEX9
Page 2 of 3
ACIIVITIES             7 1991192 I 19923 1 1993194   199419S   1995/96
TEAC HER AND ADMINISTRATOR
TRAG
Form technical support groups               100%
Direct In-Penso Istrction
Rural teachers,principals,supervisors                22%       17%       32%       29%
Urban teachen,principals,supervisors                 17%       18%       33%        31%
Indig.teachers,principals,supervisors                16%       16%       33%       35%
Traiing of CONAFE instructon               16%       18%       20%       23%        24%
Semi-Direct Training
Rural an urban teachers                              14%       14%       36%        36%
Teachers of teacher trmaing inst.          21%       24%       25%       25%         6%
Distance Education
Production of video progrms                67%       33%
Production of audio progmams               33%       33%       34%
Production of radio progrmms               33%       33%       34%
Indigenous radio programs                  25%       25%       2S%       25%
Pilot TV educational prog. in Oaxaca       33%       33%       34%
Pilot Production of radio srial            33%       33%       34%
IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF
EDUCATIONAL FACILTIS
New Construction
Begin constm tion                                    22%       24%       26%       28%
Acquire furniture                                    22%       24%       26%       28%
Hire/reassign teachers                               22%       24%       26%       28%
Rehabilitation
Begin rehabilitation                        5%       10%       3S%       40%        10%
Acquire frniture                           S5s       10%       35%       40%        10%
Scbool Repairs                                5%       10%       35%       40%        10%
School Reinforcement                          5%       10%       3S%       40%        10%
Develop and test maintance progrun                      S%       10%       35%       50%
TEACHER ItCENTIVES
Provide incentives to tachers                2S%       25%       25%       25%
SUPERVISION SYSTEM IMPRO_EM
Begin construction of supervisor offices               29%       28%       25%        18%
Acquire office equipment and funito                    29%       28%       25%        18%
Acquire vehicles                              3%       27%       26%       24%       20%
Appoint nev supervso                                             33%       33%       34%
(OWL)



- 92 -
(conL)                              ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
ACTPVIES                 |1991/92   1993    993/94   1994/95   1995/96
ORGANIZATION/MANAGEMENT
Begin construction of warehouses                       15%      35%       40%        10%
Acquire furniture and vehicles                         15%      3S%       40%        10%
Develop inventory control system                      100%
Reasigp staff                                          15%      35%       40%        10%
Conduct evaluation                                             100%
Contract technical ssistance                20%       20%       20%       20%       20%
Train staff                                 20%       20%       20%       20%       20%
Acquire office equipment and vehicles       100%
for PCUs and SPCUs
INFORMATION. MONITORING AND
EVALUATION SYSTEMS
Information and Monitoring Systems
Conduct information needs study           100%
Design, develop and pilot test system     100%
Acquire equipment                         100%
Train staff                                50%      50%
Implement system in project states                  50%       25%       25%
Conduct feasibility study for national                                            100%
information system
Evaluation System
Design evaluation instruments             50%       50%
Conduct field testing and analysis                  25%       25%       50%
Disseminate results                                 25%       25%       50%
STUDIES
Project impact evaluation                             20%       20%       20%       40%
Bilingual books' acceptance, utilization                        50%                 50%
Teacher incentives evaluation                                   50%                 50%
Pilot Oaxaca TV project evaluation                              50%                 50%
Project impact on behavioral and                                                   100%
psychological traits of children
a/ Assumes activities are carried out in accordance with the school year:
September through August of the following year.



- 93 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 5
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJEC
KEY MONITORING TARGETS
A. Quantitative Indicatrs
ACIVITIESV                   1991192  1 199293   1993/94   1994/95   1995/9C
DIDACTIC MATERIALS
No. Schools to Recoive Educ. Materials 1/
- Extreme Poverty Schools a/                      0      8500       850       850       850
- Other Rural Schools b/                          0      4000       400       400       400
No. Schools to Receive Educ. Supplies 2/
- Extreme Poverty Schools                      4200      4300      8500      8500      8500
- Other Rural Schools                          2000      2000      4000      4000      4000
LIBRARY BOOKS
No. Schools to Receive Sets of Library Books   11500     2000      2000         -         -
BILINGUAL READING BOOKS
No. Titles Published 3/                            0        21       21        42
No. Beneficiaries (childron)                       0    100000   180000   280000   280000
TEACHER AND ADMINISTRATOR TR AINIG
-Summer Intensive Courses:
Rural Teachers, Principals, Supervisors          0     10000     11000    12000    13000
Urban Teachers, Principals, Supervisors          0      8000      9000     9500      10500
Indig. Teachers, Principals, Supervisors         0     10000     10000    10000    10000
- Semi-Monthly Semester Coures:
Rural Teachers, Principals, Supervisors          0     12000    13000    14000    15000
Urban Teachers, Principals, Supervisors          0      9500     10500    11000    12000
Training of CONAFE instructors                1200      1300      1400      1500      1600
Teachers of Teacher Training Inst.             400       400       800       800       800
Notes: 1/ Durable materials expected to last several years.
a/ Total No. extreme poverty schools is about 8500 and includes an enrollment of about 500000;
b/ Total No. other ural schools is about 4000 and includes an enrollment of about 700000.
2/ Recurrent Expenditures (paper, pencils, notebooks, etc.).
3/ For each of 7 languages and for each of the first four grades there will be: 1 teacher guide;
1 work book., and 1 reading bool. Grade 1 materials would be distributed during Year 2;
Grade 2 materials during Year 3; Grade 3 & 4 materials during Year 4.
(cont'd)



- 94 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
ACTrTIES                     1991192   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96
Distance Education Materials
Prodction of Video Progms                                 40        20
Production of Audio Programs                              90        90        90
Productio of Radio Programs                               180      180       180
Indigenous Radio Programs                                 70        70        70        70
Pilot TV educational Prog. in Oaxaca 4/                  360       360       360
Pilot Production of Radio Serial                          52        52        52
IMPROVEMENT AND EXPANSION OF
EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES (See Anx. 6. At. 2)
Miimum % of Rehabilitation Needs Met
by SEP and Solidaridad Programs Combined          3%       10%       30%       60%       70%
TEACHER INCENTIVES
Number of Teachers Receiving Incentives         1350      2700      4050      5400      5400
SUPERVISION SYSTEM IMPROVEMNT
Supervisors' Offices to be Cnstructed and
Equipped                                         180       180       350       300       200
SUPPORT SERVICES DELIVERY SYSTEM
Warehouses Construction & Equipment:
-No. Warehouses                                   12        12        12         7         -
-No. 96 m2 Modules                                12        15        15         7
BUDGETARY ALLOCATION FOR PRMARY                 1992|    1993      1994       1995      1996
EDUCATION BY FISCAL YEAR
Budget Aiocation to Project States
Recurrent (In 1991 prices)                     +2%     +2.8%       +4%       +5%       +5%
Notes: 4/ Tentative targets to be revised when final proposal would be submitted to the Bank (see pars. 3.28).



- 9510
Page 3 of 5
PRIMARY EDJCATION PROJECr
KYMONrRIO}NG TREE
B. Qualitative Indicaton
OZJMCTIVE            TARGV.              nDICAiOc                   DESIRD          tOMTO3WG
DME                                           IIPUAC          H ASK
I. Efficienvc                          Repetition Rates                decrease
Yearly      - Averago for primry cycle
Improve efficiency of                  - For grades 1 & 2                                Annual end
Primary Education                                                                        mid-term
Dropout lates                   decrease          reviews
- Average for primary cycle
- For grades 1 & 2
Completion late I               increase
Note: Distinction between
school modalitles general
(rural/urban); lndigpnous
II. Oualltv Assessment   June 1992   Questionnairest and
System                                  dainstrative manuals
prepared                                          covenant
Assessment of student
performance and educ.    For           Test results:
quality                   grades 1,  -Cognitive achievement In         Increase          Annual and
3, & 6 In   Spanish                                           mid-term
1992 &      a. Ceeral Prim. Urban                             reviews
1995        Schools
b. General Prim. Rural
For         Schools
grades 2,  c. Indigenous
4, 5 & in   d. CONAPE
1993 &
1995 and    -Cognitive achievement in       increase
at mid.    Mathemticst
term        a. General Prtmary Urban
review      Schools
and         b. General Primary Rural
project     Schools
comple-    c. Indigenous
tion date   d. CONAPE
_-             .       .                                                                               -



- 96
Page 4 of 5
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATIOM PROJECT
KEY MONITORING TARGE-
B. Qualitative Indicators
II1.  Teacher Trainin                   Attendance Rate
Yearly      - during suer courses            To reach at
Upgrade skill of           from           * urban                        least 40-60S      Annial and
teachers, principals       Summer         * rural                        of teachers       mid-term
and supervisors            1992           * indigenous                                      review
- during semi-monthly           Full coverage
semester courses                 for course 1,
(distingulaihng betwean         reachitg 25-
courses 1 to 4)                  351 of
* urban                       teachers in
* rural                       couzaes 2 to 4
* indigenous
Notes  Meauring the number
of teachers with repeated
tranincg attendance
IV. Educational
Facilities                 mid-tem    Z rehabilitation needs met         at least 302
review      by combined SEP and              by 1994; at        Annual and
Enaure highest priority   (1994)        Solidaridad Program              least 702 by      mid-term
to rehabilltation works   & project                                      project            reviews
(rezaso)                   camp                                          completion
V. Teacher Incentives
Lower turnover rate and
absenteeism                Yearly       Turnover rates In marginal       decrease          Annual ad
areas                                              mld-term
1 teachers receiving             60-801            reviews
incentives complying with
guidelines
VI. Supervision
Yearly      - Frequency of supervision       increase
Improve effectiveness                   visits:                                            Annual and
of supervislon                          - 2 supervisors complying        70-90S            mid-taem
with guidelines                                     reviews
- X schools vith arrival of    increase
textbooks by September 15
and arrival of educational
__materials by October 15
VII.  Sunport Servico
Delivery System            Yearly       -   s upervision zones with      Increase
textbooks received before                          Annual and
August 25 of each year                             mid-term
- 2 supervision zones with      Increase           reviews
didactic materials received
before September 15 of each
year
- z capacity utilization per   752
___        t month                          I                  I___   _ _ _,



- 97 -
Page 5 of 5
MEaCO_
PRIMARY EmmUaTNPRJC
KEDY -MOMIORI TARGETS
B. Qualitative Indicators
VII1.  nfotio              Dec. 1991   Information needs study                             CVoenant
Moultorina                 July 1992   System design & development
piloc test                       lmprowed          anual and
Improve SEP planning       Oct. 1992   -System operating in 2            statistical       mid-teom
and monitoring                          states                           informatlon       reviews
capacity                   Aug. 1993   -System operating In 3
states                          Decentralized
Aug. 1994  -System fully operative           use of
1995        Feasibility study for et.        information
national level
IX. Studies
August
Evaluation of project      1991         TOR, schedules, consultant       beasuremnt of   negotiations
impact and enhancement                  selection process               project Impact
of program design          Now/Dec                                                         annual and
capacity                   1991         Contracting of consultants      Measurement of   mid-term
for 3 studies                   cost-              review.
December                                     effectlveness
1992        let round of longitudinal        of proj-et
data for Impact oval. study    components
August
1994        Interim reports on:  lmpact
evaluation study; teacber
incentive study; bilingual
books study; and TV pilot
study
May 1996
Final reports on all S
studies



- 98 -
Page 1 of I
SELZEW2    iS ANM  DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECI  FILE
A.   Selectrd Reports, Studks and Other DocUments on the Subsetor
Al World Bank, "Basic Education in Mexico: Trends, Issues and Policy Recommendations,'
Report No. 8930-ME, June 1991.
A2   M6xico, Poder Ejecutnio Federal, Prorama par a Modernizaci6n Educativa 1989-94
1989.
A3   M6ico, 'Ley Federal de Educaci6n," Diario Oficial. November 1973.
B.   Selected Reports, Studies and Other Documents Relating to the Project
BI   SEP, 'Guidelines for the Payment of Incentives to Primary Education School Supervisors
Working in Marginal Rural Areas (Lineamientos para el otorgamiento del apoyo a la
funci6n de supervisi6n escolar en la educaci6n primaria, por labozar en localidades rurales
de marginac6n extrema)," July 1991.
B2   SEP, 'Guidelines for the Payment of Work Incentives to Primary School Teachers Working
in Marginal Rural Areas (Uneamientos para el pago del incentivo a maes xos de educaci6n
primaria por laborar en localidades rurales de marginaci6n extrema,)" July 1991.
B3   SEP, "Terms of Reference for the hnprovement of the Information System (T6rminos de
referencia del proyecto Banco Mundial-M6xdco - Tema: Mejorar el sistema de
informaci6n)," May 1991.
B4 SEP, 'Proposal for a Quality Assessment System for Primary Education in the states of
Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca (Proyecto de evaluaci6n de la calidad de la
educaci6n primaria en los estados de Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo y Oaxaca)," February
1991.
B5   SEP, 'Proposal for an Indigenous Books Program in the states of Oaxaca, Chiapas,
Guerrero and Hidalgo (Proyecto para la elaboraci6n, impresi6n y aplicaci6n de libros para
la ensefianza y desarroflo de las lenguas indigenas de los estados de Oaxaca, Chiapas,
Guerrero e Hidalgo)," March 1991.
B6   SEP (DOPPYP), 'Supervision in Primary Education (Supervisi6n y asesorfa en educaci6n
primaria)," March 1991.



MAP SECTION



X ---                            __________________________________________________________________I r                                                                                        r,2. 3IBR D    23
Z      A(     I A _ l    c  -X    Sn Luis Potosi                                                   1 'EXICO
/           ASt A    gaas2at-                           SA        S POTOSI
S /i j>Agu 31zntv filsis, > J g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E X  I C   O
Jelpa  --- - --.o                             -             -/'                                                                                                   PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
/AC(   AS                                          \            (                                         Tcmpoal
(I               L50sasjMerene                               (I   --                                                                                                  [Jt\Mr  Project Stales
(                                   G c3UANAJUATC)
Guanajuato                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yi  l
IAI CC                      0 t\Gusn3juoto             1        g     -      <                g>    ~ \<   9Tuxpo                                                            Rivers                                                                                      YtjO ali
JI /  -    QlI RTO
G    adlr                                                                                                                                                                            Tril Roads
Ceeo                                  H DALGO                   j      >    Paso Ricr                                                       Otlher Main Roads
-~   --/                             Sea    X SonJucclRS                                                                                                           0xn -/. y ~   Slate Capitalsk
La Ear;a                                                          Pacireca  K                                                                         t! RiNotional Capital                                                           Cmeh
Slates Boundaries
41       \o50r~~~co                                   -                                        7                                                                        --   teoudie                                                                         Campeche
-20       0                  Z a- --v--                                                                                                                                                      I )nternotional Boundaries
JALISCO  l\                 MO/i
115WO                     g ~                                                  Mex co\o              a-    8            I          r     hlp 
Ur;)  urcpne    M!CHCOACAN        saztcauro       MEXICO       City                  T     C-                                      .                                                                                                             ChCpael
Apetelegee                                                    Toluco         F. 5,       .    $ lTaacao                                             C'
Nae bn                  cernaaad   j   AcJfuiCu           PUemo                 ro                                                                                                     Cd. del C.r..
/ < L 0 >   ruccrdoMotororosW                       8       19 >          >       rlIAndrOs                                                      t                       CC A MPECHE
Plcyo(zulX       -          -               Balsas                                                                                                       Ceaseacoalcos '<<R   >(\;gt //TABASCO
PloPa A.eI                                                                                                                                                                                                             V-Io ms
* ssZihu,nnsej                  ChilpanciJgo                                                                                                                                                                 PsI..qt      *
9   GUERR RO                      \.               /  < \  JACA                                                                                                                           t.
A,.pu~/                                              ~                                 Motto. R...ro                                                  CH IA PA Ss
iu           .f/                                                                                                                                                                                                   _' 1, !i  GU  rr AoxucJ<j 2t<6 
<Pinotepre Ncbo C   roso,i -* 6Coin*g
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                                        /           n         e                                                 SohienCrpe                   Arn g
\                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ps0 Eisrendide  a>PesluJo l 
s _                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        ~          ~         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIe. Angel  jGUATEMALA
MEXICO
M i E X I C O                          E  _  ~z.  ; '0                               50        To0      150 KIIOMETERS
*;o                           noor.noaar                          0       25      50      75      160 MILE$                                                                                         lo,oh
Q6AiX/                                                    ..                                     ~                             .i                                                                       ..  i  MAY



