Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17303
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3407-ME)
January 20, 1998
Mexico Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Peso (N$)
US$1.00  =  8.30NewPesos(December, 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
CAFCE        Federal Education Construction Agency (Programa Federal de Construcci6n de
lEscuelas)
CONAFE    National Education Development Council (Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n)
DGEI         General Directorate of Indigenous Education (Direccion General de Educacion
Indigena)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IE          Initial Education
NAFIN        National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera S.N. C.)
PARE         Primary Education Project (Proyecto de Educaci6n Primaria - Programapara
Abatir el Rezago Educativo)
PAREB        Primary Education Project II-Loan 3722 (Proyecto de Educaci6n Primaria II)
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
PRODET    Initial Education Project-Loan 3518 (Proyecto de Educaci6n Inicial)
SPCUs        State Project Coordinating Units
SEP          Public Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica)
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President        Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director              Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager        Mr. Julian Schweitzer
Task Manager          Ms. Madalena Dos Santos



ii
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3704-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ................................................    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................                                                                  v
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................                                                       , ix
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
PROJECT BACKGROUND ...............................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ..............................................,                                            2
Assessment of Original Project Objectives ..............................................3
Original Project Design and Organization ..............................................3
Changes ..............................................3
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ..............................................4
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES .............................................                                             11
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................................                                            12
Factors not subject to Government control .............................................                                   12
Factors subject to Government control ..............................................                                      12
Factors subject to implementing agency control ..............................................                             12
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................                                                        12
BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................................                                                              13
BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................................                                                           13
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................                                                          14
LESSONS LEARNED .............................................                                                                15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................................                                                   17
APPENDIXES ..............................................                                                                   35
APPENDIX A .............................................                                                                  36
APPENDIX B .............................................                                                                  43
APPENDIX C .............................................                                                                  44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3407-ME)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) evaluates the Primary Education Project
(PARE) in Mexico, for which Loan 3407-ME, in the amount US$250 million equivalent, was
approved by the Board on September 26, 1991. The Loan Agreement was signed on October 14,
1991 and the Loan became effective on December 11, 1991. In September, 1992, as a result of the
organizational reform of the education sector, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was placed
under the National Education Development Council (CONAFE)'. The reform included assigning
a normative and policy (rather than operational) role to the Ministry of Education (SEP) and the
initiation of a process of decentralization of education services to the States.
In July, 1995, responding to a request from the Borrower, US$37.4 million of this loan were
canceled due to lower costs resulting from the December, 1994 peso devaluation. The Loan was
closed on June 30, 1997. The final disbursement took place on June 30, 1997, and an unused
balance amounting to US$17.4 was canceled. The total amount of the loan disbursed was
US$195.2 million and the total project cost amounted to US$268.3 million. The Loan and
Government contributions represented respectively 73 % and 27%, close to 71 % and 29%
estimated at appraisal. The State governments were not required to commit specific amounts to
finance the project costs. However, in effect their actual contribution was US$2.9 million of the
Borrower share.
The ICR was prepared by Nydia Maraviglia (LCSHD Consultant) after the final supervision
mission that took place from October 27 to November 7, 1997. The mission consisted of Anna
Sant Anna (Sr. Operations Officer, Mexico Office, LCC1C), Claudia Macias (Consultant, LCC1C),
and Nydia Maraviglia (Consultant, LCSHD). The report was reviewed by Madalena Dos Santos
(Task Manager, LCHSD) and Carmen Hamann (Sector Leader, LCHSD/LCC1C). This ICR is
based on the findings of the project completion mission, documents in the project file including two
evaluation studies based on field surveys, field visits, and interviews with Government officials and
'CONAFE is a para-statal institution under SEP's umbrella created in 1971 to extend primary education to poor and
remote areas, with a separate budget and legal status, which may seek complementary national and foreign financial
and technical resources and apply them to the development of the country's educational system.



iv
relevant Bank staff. The last mission Aide-Memoire is included as Appendix A. The Borrower
prepared its own evaluation of project execution (detailed report available in the project files, and
Executive Summary presented as Appendix B). The Borrower was requested to comment on the
Bank ICR and the response is included as Appendix C.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3407-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This project was developed in response to a specific strategy adopted by the Government
of Mexico in the early 1990's, and supported by the Bank, consisting of strengthening the social
sectors and alleviating poverty by improving the equity of resource allocation. Several other
projects were also financed by the Bank, supporting the same strategy, in health, initial
education, low-income housing, water and sanitation, decentralization and regional development,
and technical training. Regarding primary education, until 1980 Mexico had made remarkable
progress. Illiteracy dropped to 18%, and 91% of children 6 to 14 years of age attended school.
However, since 1982 progress slowed down. As a result, by 1988 the Federal education budget
was just 6.3% of total Federal spending (down from 17.8% in 1976). Most of the funds (95%)
were applied to operating costs, leaving little room for needed system expansion, maintenance
and human resource development. Private education, although growing, remains a marginal
financing source in the sector. The main issues in this sub-sector are low internal efficiency and a
low level of cognitive achievement. In 1992, as part of the educational reform, all basic and
teacher education services were transferred to the states, together with personnel, facilities, goods
and equipment, although the Federal Government continues to transfer funds, favoring. the
poorest states.
Project Objectives and Description
The project objective was to improve equity, quality, and efficiency of primary education,
focusing on four states (Oaxaca, Guerrero, Chiapas and Hidalgo) with the highest incidence of
poverty and low education indicators. It would be achieved through: (a) reducing the high
repetition and dropout rates; (b) raising the level of cognitive achievement of children; and (c)
strengthening management of the primary education system. Overall project coordination and
responsibility for attaining objectives was to be undertaken by the Secretariat of Public
Education (SEP) at the central level and by the State level Education Secretariats. A Project
Coordinating Unit was to be responsible for project management. The project consisted of two
major components: (a) Educational Services Improvement Component (72% of total cost)
would improve the availability and quality of primary education services by providing materials,
upgrading teachers and supervisors' skills, and building and rehabilitating schools; and (b)



vi
Institutional Strengthening Component (28% of total cost) would further improve the efficiency
of the primary education sector by providing work incentives to teachers, improving
supervision, strengthening the delivery system and the management capacity of SEP at federal
and state levels, improving information, monitoring and evaluation systems, and conducting
selected studies.
Implementation Experience and Results
Educational Services Improvement Component. The targets set at appraisal for extending
the infrastructure of primary education were amply met. Moreover, the equity strategy was
greatly advanced, with two thirds of the new and rehabilitated infrastructure built in
predominantly poor communities. Initially, CAFCE, the Federal School Construction Agency,
with long experience in building schools mostly in urban areas, carried out the construction.
However, the type of buildings required in this project, consisting of modest rural facilities in
hard to reach locations, proved to be difficult and expensive for this agency. In the last year of
the project, new procedures for construction were developed by CONAFE, entrusting
municipalities and using paid labor from the same communities. The State Project Coordinating
Units (SPCUs) were assigned a budget equivalent to around 4% of the value of the works to
monitor and facilitate design, construction, rehabilitation, and equipment of facilities, as well as
to provide the interface with the municipalities. These changes served to test the implications of
using the local level as implementing agent. The cost of construction per classroom was lowered
by more than 30%, and the system is now being used in the second basic education project
(PAREB). However, by 1995 CAFCE had completed 96% of the proposed classrooms and 93%
of the planned annexes, additional classrooms or sanitary facilities, and 100% of the warehouses.
With the new approach and the remaining funds for construction, it was possible to exceed the
target for classrooms by 12%, and of annexes (including bathrooms and latrines) by 6%. In all,
6,875 new classrooms, 5,204 annexes, 43 warehouses, 1039 supervisors' and sector headquarters,
3,185 latrines and 1,102 sanitary facilities were added to the primary school system in the four
states. Since 1996, the community was also encouraged to help in rehabilitation of schools with
good results and at considerable less cost.
The project placed particular emphasis on developing, reproducing and distributing
materials including textbooks, school libraries, bilingual books, teaching aids and school
supplies. Although with some initial delays, distribution of didactic materials was well within
the target. Books and supplies benefited a total of 5,584,305 children (of which over 50% were
living in extreme poverty). CONAFE coordinated with the General Directorate of Indigenous
Education (DGEI) and with the state education secretariats to produce books and guide teaching
in eight indigenous languages. Up to 1995, this sub-component benefited 153,050 children and
8,210 teachers from both cycles. Coverage was 55% of the appraisal because work with so many
languages took considerably longer than anticipated. This accomplishment was, however,
unprecedented, since for the first time in the country, the primary school system has materials
and text books in the eight main indigenous languages. The DGEI is currently evaluating the
textbooks and materials before preparing books for the third cycle. Another enhancement for the
primary schools in the project was the school library program. At least 50% of the
participating children belonged to communities with high incidence of poverty or attended



vii
bilingual schools. Similar programs had existed since 1986 on a small scale, in a few urban areas.
In all, 3.6 million books reached the primary schools in the four states, surpassing the target by
12%; The extent of utilization of these resources and the impact on teachers, children and the
community, would need to be followed up through the second Basic Education Project
(PAREB).
The training sub-component was aimed at upgrading teachers' skills and improving the
technical support capacity of school principals and supervisors. Another goal was to raise the
quality of pre-service training in teachers' institutes. There were intensive courses during the
Summer for teachers, and they also attended ten sessions of 8-hours each during three months,
conducted by previously trained zone supervisors. In turn, supervisors and trainers were exposed
to special events, seminars, round tables, conferences and workshops to update them on the
results of recent research and innovations in education. All the quantitative targets were met.
Teacher training was based on well structured materials including diagnostic self-evaluations on
each subject, reading lists, and suggestions for activities within and outside the classroom.
Moreover, video programs were prepared, as a "distance learning" approach, for rural and
indigenous primary teachers, to give them tools (particularly multigrade teachers) to enrich their
educational skills. Additionally, the Oaxaca the "teleprimaria" program, intended for primary
students at various levels will be used to train teachers. Through all these activities, the project
targets were amply met. In all, 265,452 primary teachers from rural, semi-rural, and indigenous
schools of the four states were trained, surpassing the target by about 20%.
Institutional Strengthening Component, Incentives were provided to teachers working in
schools located in indigenous regions and in marginal and isolated rural areas, to reduce high
teacher turnover and promote a greater teacher involvement with the community. The incentive
is equal to the basic salary of the primary school teacher and is strictly attached to the school, so
that the teacher looses it if he or she transfers to another school. The project paid incentives to
5,400 teachers in 3,537 schools with over 160,000 students, in poor or very poor communities.
This represented 40% of all teachers working in rural or indigenous communities and fulfilled
100% of the set target. Administration of the incentive improved during the second part of the
project with the participation of parents' associations to supervise the teacher's compliance with
the contracted conditions. The effects of the incentive on teacher turover appear to have been
significant: from a usual 80% rotation in schools located in remote rural areas, analysis of the
payroll show that the rotation index has declined by 15%, to about 65%. Since 1996, another
form of incentives to schools was initiated, consisting of providing a small fund of Mex$5,000 to
parents associations for supplies and maintenance of the school grounds, buildings and furniture.
The program comprises 1,930 schools, where parents are beginning to show much more interest
for the educational activities and are playing a responsible role in reporting on teacher
performance. Further evaluation of both incentive systems will be required through the second
Basic Education Project (PAREB).
It was not an easy task to introduce changes in the supervision system in order to
transform it into a tool of technical support to teachers, besides fulfilling the traditional
administrative and monitoring functions. The project provided allowances to 1,230 for visiting
schools in difficult to reach locations, built and equipped 1,039 small, conveniently located



viii
offices for supervisors, purchased 277 vehicles, gave relevant training, and changed supervisors'
functions by involving them in training teachers. Thirty five percent of the new supervisor's
offices were built in indigenous zones. All these inputs met the Staff Appraisal Report targets,
and in the case of office construction, these were exceeded by 38%. Although the old style
supervision has not disappeared, significant changes are beginning to be observed. The number
of visits to targeted schools by supervisors has increased remarkably in the last five years, from
237 annual supervisory visits in 1991, to over 5,700 in the period 1992-96.
Organization/Management Strengthening of Support Service Delivery And Management
Capacity. The appraisal requirements for this component were designed to improve problems of
storage and distribution of educational materials by constructing a network of 43 warehouses,
and providing 43 vehicles of 3.5 ton capacity. Another objective was to strengthen the
management capacity of SEP at both central and state levels, by financing technical assistance to
support project coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities, as well as training for
technical, managerial, and administrative staff. By the end of 1993, thirty two warehouses had
been built and equipped and vehicles provided; the task was completed in 1994 with construction
of other 11 warehouses and similar equipment and vehicles, reaching in this way the established
targets.
The other part of institutional development was devoted to advance management and leadership
capacity. One hundred eighteen management and leadership, policy, planning, program, and
project analysis courses took place during the period 1993-97. Additionally, 38 special courses
took place, dealing with administrative and technical issues. Other technical staff and managers
attended courses and went on observation visits to countries that are also developing new
educational policies. There were also seven promotional campaigns to keep the public informed
about educational reformn.
Information Monitoring And Evaluation Systems & Selected Studies. This sub-
component planned to revise SEP's existing information system to improve the relevance of the
data being collected and establish system networks. It also aimed at a more decentralized use of
the information for management and evaluation purposes. This was to be done through technical
assistance, additional equipment and training. The mid-term review carried out by the Bank in
September, 1994 found that although the design of the information system had been initiated in
1992, very little had been accomplished up to that moment. It gave detailed recommendations to
redirect the work, with a new team and technical assistance. In early 1995 a supervision mission
found that the reorientation had not been initiated and in October the Bank and the Government
decided to cancel this sub-component and transfer its development to the restructured PAREB
project. Regarding the implementation of project financed studies, The evaluation surveys were
disproportionately costly in comparison with their usefulness for assessing the impact of
educational inputs on students' achievement, quality of teaching, and internal efficiency. There
was a more positive experience with the evaluation of the pilot program of "teleprimaria" in
Oaxaca, which provided useful findings to guide the fine tuning of video programs for use as
distance education tools for primary school students and for training teachers.
There were delays during the project in carrying out procurement; the PCU staff
considered that this was due to the numerous steps required to obtain clearances from the



ix
national financial institution and the Bank; there are also rather elaborate administrative steps
within the implementing agencies at state and central levels. CONAFE is studying the existing
procedures and bottlenecks and is discussing this issue with Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) and
the Bank, for new projects, in an effort to simplify procedures, while maintaining accountability
and transparency.
Assessment of Outcome
The main project objective consisting of expanding primary education giving priority to
low income, remote communities, and improving the quality and efficiency of primary
education, was to be achieved by increasing the number of schools and reducing the high
repetition and dropout rates, raising the level of cognitive achievement of children, and
strengthening management of the primary education system. The project achieved a remarkable
progress in extending primary education services, reaching and in many cases surpassing the
physical targets. Moreover, it correctly targeted those services by investing over 60% of the
resources for infrastructure in very poor communities and the other 40% in places with medium
levels of poverty. Incentives were paid to 5,400 teachers, representing 40% of all teachers
working in rural or indigenous communities. The project also trained over 270,000 teachers,
principals and supervisors, 3 to 12% above the set target for almost all categories of training.
Although there were delays for didactic and library materials to get to certain schools,
particularly at the beginning, toward project completion all targets had been reached, with
preference given to schools located in areas with high prevalence of poverty (71% of the school
receiving materials were in those areas, compared to a target of 68%). Regarding measures of
quality and efficiency, the evaluation studies did not give definitive answers. SEP statewide
statistics show that there was a slightly declining trend in dropout rates in three states -Hidalgo,
Oaxaca and Guerrero - while in Chiapas there was an increase in the last year after two years of
modest decline. Terminal efficiency trends showed improvements in the four states. In
conclusion, the project provided a good starting point towards reaching quality and efficiency
objectives. Also, remarkable progress was made in compensating for inequalities while
expanding and improving the school infrastructure, in ensuring teacher permanence and in
making available good quality educational materials in poor communities. However, the task is
by no means completed. The compensatory primary education system still needs better
measuring and evaluation tools and the four states still remain in the lower range. in the scale of
educational achievements nationwide, indicating that significant further efforts are needed to
balance educational resources and complete the task.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Although the decentralization of the educational system that took place during project
execution created some problems, it was an unavoidable part of the educational reform. In turn,
decentralization and community involvement gave considerable impetus to the project, lowered
the costs of school construction, facilitated monitoring of teacher attendance and helped in
distribution of materials. Like in other projects in Mexico, annual delays in transfer of budgetary
allocation slowed activities during the first four years, but in 1996 the Government regularized
the process. The decision to delegate responsibility for administering and implementing simple



x
construction to the PCUs and the municipalities, and resorting to community cooperation for
construction and maintenance proved very effective in lowering costs and expediting works.
Summary of Findings
The innovations introduced through this project in the primary education system of four
states to assist them close the gap of coverage and improve the quality of schools in poor and
indigenous communities have not yet reached its full potential, although they are well conceived
and should come to fruition in follow-up projects such as the second Basic Education Project
(PAREB). Decentralization of the education system and the involvement of parents and
communities will facilitate its assimilation into the regular state systems. Absorption at local
level would make these programs more affordable, because promotion of equity and quality in
primary education will need to continue for the medium term (ten to fifteen years) in the poorest
states. Sustainability would be assured through an increased awareness by parents in all
communities of what they can demand of the education system.
Key Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from this primary education project are as follows: (a) in social
sector projects consisting of expanding services and improving quality, intellectual resources and
administrative efforts need to be balanced, so that no only physical targets are met, but
substantive work is devoted to institutional building; (b) to improve the quality of primary
education in poor rural communities in Mexico it would be cost-effective to focus attention on
development of appropriate methodologies and teacher training for multigrade classrooms, since
they make up 60% of all schools in the country and a much higher proportion in the areas
targeted by the project; (c) tangible benefits are gained by incorporating parents in the school
activities, including monitoring teacher attendance and performance, and there is preliminary
evidence that in poor communities these benefits increase if parent associations receive training
and are given a minimum of financial resources for justifiable and pertinent school related
activities; (d) decentralizing administration and implementation of rural school construction to
the municipalities and the community has demonstrated its advantages, both in terms of lower
costs and expeditiousness, and CONAFE's work in developing detailed procedures and financial
controls has been essential to success; (e) delays experienced during the initial stages of the
project in procurement may be attributed to the use of rigid, centralized procedures and lack of
training and high staff turnover; and (f) problems faced in performing impact studies and in
trying to develop an education management information system may be attributed in part to
unclear specifications of the tasks and the unsatisfactory level of the technical assistance.



1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.  This project was developed in response to a specific strategy adopted by the Government
of Mexico in the early 1990's, and supported by the Bank, consisting of strengthening the social
sectors and alleviating poverty through improving the equity of resource allocation. In addition
to Primary Education, the following projects were approved in 1990-92, targeting underserved
regions of the poorest states: the Low-Income Housing Project II (Loan 3140-ME); the Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (Loan 3271-ME); the first Basic Health Care Project (Loan
3272-ME); the Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME); and the
Technical Training Project (Loan 3358-ME); the Initial Education Project (Loan 3518-ME).
2.  Until 1980, Mexico had made remarkable progress in primary education. Illiteracy
dropped to 18% and 91% of children 6 to 14 years of age attended school. However, since 1982
progress slowed down. While between 1970 and 1982 Federal spending for the education sector
grew yearly in real terms at an average of 14.1%, double the growth rate of GDP, following the
onset of the economic crisis in 1982 the growth rate decreased in real terms at a pace of 2.1 % per
year (four times faster than the decline in GDP and almost three times faster than the decline in
overall public spending). As a result, by 1988 the Federal education budget was just 6.3% of
total Federal spending (down from 17.8% in 1976). As a percent of GDP, the rate had fallen
from 5.3 to 3.5% (a 32% decline). Most of the funds (95%) were applied to operating costs,
leaving little room for needed system expansion, maintenance and human resource development.
Private education, although growing, remains a marginal financing source in the sector.
3.   The main issues in this sub-sector are low internal efficiency, and a low level of cognitive
achievement. Low internal efficiency is characterized by high repetition and drop-out rates.
Repeaters represent 10.2% as a national average, but can reach as high as 30% in parts of some
poor states, and also they are significantly more numerous in the first part of the primary cycle
where 40-50% repetition rates have been registered in some parts of the country. While in 1990
primary level enrollment was 98%, dropout rates are high and the average years of schooling is
only 3 to 4 years in the poorest states, with a national average of 6 years. Those who abandon
the primary cycle reach 900,000 every year, half a million of them before completing the third
grade, that is, before mastering the basic writing and reading skills. It is estimated that only half
of the students entering the primary cycle complete it. Levels of cognitive achievement are also
low. Data from a SEP evaluation in 1988 which tested students in Spanish, mathematics and
natural and social sciences in grades 4 to 6 revealed scores slightly higher than 20 (out of a
possible score of 100).
4.  The formal education system in Mexico consists of basic education (preschool, primary
and lower secondary) and post-basic education (upper secondary and university). Of a total
enrollment of 21.4 million in all levels of basic education in 1989-90, 68% were at the primary
level. Almost all basic educational services are provided by the public sector (only 6% attended



2
private schools in 1990). In 1992, as part of the educational reform, administrative and technical
responsibility for all basic and teacher education services were transferred to the states, together
with personnel, facilities, goods and equipment. At the same time, School Councils were
established at state and municipal levels to follow up educational activities and to seek additional
resources to respond to specific problems and needs. The planning and budget processes for
education were decentralized, although the Federal Government continues to transfer funds for
education to the states, from both the national budget and foreign sources, paying particular
attention to alleviating inequities in the distribution of educational services by favoring allocation
of resources to the areas in most need in the poorest states. The Federal educational system
retained responsibility for policy, standards and evaluation (SEP) as well as, through CONAFE,
for ensuring equitable distribution of resources through compensatory programs and for
channeling and administering foreign assistance.
5.  In the last five years the Government has conducted structural reforms intended to redefine
its role, modernize the economy and create favorable conditions for sustained growth and at the
same time, meet urgent needs of the population. The reform of the education sector is part of
these overall reforms. Basic education has been given special attention for its significance to
human capital formation. In 1992, mandatory basic education was extended from 6 to 9 years
and in 1993 the primary education system adopted a new educational plan and revised curricula,
as well as redesigned textbooks and other educational materials. Additionally, considerable
emphasis was placed on improving the quality of teaching, through a system of horizontal
promotion, new incentives favoring those teachers that remain in posts located in outlying areas,
and in-service training.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Original Objectives
6.   The objective of this project consisted of assisting the Government in improving the
equity, quality and efficiency of primary education, focusing on four Mexican states (Oaxaca,
Guerrero, Chiapas and Hidalgo) with the highest incidence of poverty and low education
indicators. Estimates made with 1988 data indicated that, in the four project states, average
primary school attendance was 4.4 years, terminal efficiency 39%, the dropout rate 9.9% and
repetition rate, 14.7%. Even more worrisome, first grade repetition rates ranged from 28 to 53%.
These objectives, considered as being of the highest priority within the Government's Education
Modernization Program, would be achieved through: (a) reducing the high repetition and dropout
rates; (b) raising the level of cognitive achievement of children; and (c) strengthening
management of the primary education system, including program design and implementation,
monitoring and evaluation system.



3
Assessment of Original Project Objectives
7.   The objectives of this project responded to the overall development objectives and
priorities of the country and the Bank, by targeting primary education services to four states
where sixty five percent its the population (about 7 million persons accounting for one third of
the nation's absolute poor) was estimated to live below the poverty line. These states also
included nearly 40% of the indigenous population, which had the least access to the educational
system due to isolation and language barriers. The objectives also acknowledged the need to
address the two most critical issues in the primary education system regarding low internal
efficiency (high repetition and dropout rates) and low levels of students' cognitive achievement.
Original Project Design and Organization
8.   Overall project coordination and responsibility for attaining objectives was to be
undertaken by SEP at the central level and by the State level Education Secretariats. A central
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was to be responsible for overall project management. The
project consisted of two major components:
9.   The Educational Services Improvement Component (72% of total project cost) would
improve the availability and quality of primary educational services. It would: (i) provide
educational materials, books for school libraries and some bilingual reading books in primary
schools, mostly rural: (ii) upgrade skills of under-qualified teachers and provide in-service
training for primary school teachers and teacher trainers, using traditional methods as well as
distance education technologies; and (iii) rehabilitate, replace and build educational facilities;
and
10. The Institutional Strengthening Component (28% of total cost) would further improve the
efficiency of the primary education sector by: (i) providing work incentives for teachers; (ii)
improving the supervision system; (iii) strengthening the organization of the support service
delivery system and management capacity of SEP at federal and state levels; (iv) supporting
improvements in the information, monitoring and evaluation systems; and (v) conducting
selected studies to assess project impact and help refine future project design.
Changes
11.  Anticipating the implementation of the educational reform and organizational changes in
SEP, the project documents established commitments on the part of the Government to ensure
that state governments would assume, increasingly through the project period, greater
responsibility in implementing and managing the project in the respective states. To this end, it
required that the Federal Government would sign an addendum to the existing agreements
between the federal and state authorities before February 29, 1992. This requirement was not
needed because federal and state authorities signed new decentralization agreements that



4
covered, inter alia, this issue. Another departure from the proposed project administration
arrangements was the transfer of the PCU from SEP's Under-secretariat of Educational
Coordination, to CONAFE in 1992. This was unavoidable in view of the organizational reform
of the system and did not cause undue burden to project operations.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
12. The current section presents a record of the project activities that took place until project
closing regarding the Educational Services Improvement Component, and the Institutional
Strengthening Component.
A. Educational Services Improvement Component
Improvement and expansion of educational facilities
13.  Implementation took place during the five calendar years 1992-96 and resulted in
substantial progress in extending access to primary education into remote areas in four provinces
where 40 % of the country's indigenous population live. Indeed, about two thirds of the new and
rehabilitated infrastructure was built in communities of difficult access and with a large
proportion of very low income families. With the objective of closing wide gaps in the primary
school infrastructure in order to increase enrollment, the project provided financing for building
and rehabilitating classrooms, annexes to existing schools, warehouses, supervisors' offices and
sanitary facilities. The initial organizational arrangements for undertaking construction gave the
responsibility to CAFCE, the Federal School Construction Agency, that has branches in the
states and a long experience and good performance in building schools, particularly in urban
areas. However, the type of construction required in this project, consisting of modest rural
schools and annexes in hard to reach locations, proved to be difficult and expensive for this
agency.
14. The construction plan faced problems with large contractors abandoning the works because
they were not profitable, and also there were many cases of inappropriate furniture, delays
because of difficulties faced by large contractors to transport materials to certain locations, as
well as CAFCE's own problems with supervising the works in many scattered and hard to access
sites. In the last two years of the project CONAFE decided to use a different approach, moving
the responsibility for construction and remodeling to the municipalities and using paid labor from
the same communities where the facilities were being built.. Specific procedures were developed
by CONAFE to manage this decentralized process of construction. The administration and
supervision of construction under the new procedures was financed by assigning a budget to the
state Project Coordinating Units (SPCUs) equivalent to around 4% of the costs of civil works
(less than the usual 7% applied to administration and supervision of construction).
15. The SPCUs monitored and facilitated design, construction, rehabilitation, and equipment
of facilities, and also provided the interface with the municipalities. Purchase and transport of



5
materials was facilitated by leaving it up to the community to use local materials and traditional
means of transportation. These changes, done during the last year of the project, were very
useful for testing the implications of moving the implementation of construction to the local
level. The cost of construction per classroom was lowered by more than 30%, to an estimated
four-state average of Mex.$60,800 compared to a cost of Mex.$90,000 under the CAFCE
program. This system is now being used in the second basic education project (PAREB).
16. It is, however, important to point out that by 1995 CAFCE had completed 96% of the
proposed classrooms and 93% of the planned annexes. With the new approach and the remaining
funds for construction, it was possible to exceed the target for classrooms by 12%, and of
annexes (including bathrooms and latrines) by 6%. In all, 6,875 new classrooms, 5,204 annexes,
43 warehouses, 1039 supervisors' and sector headquarters, 3,185 latrines and 1,102 sanitary
facilities were added to the primary school system in the four states. In addition, 322 facilities
were rehabilitated. The latter was a much lower number than the appraisal estimate of 1,174
schools to be remodeled and provisions for reinforcing the structures of other 696 facilities. The
reason for this much reduced rehabilitation program was that CAFCE had already done, as part
of a regular program, most of the repairs needed; most of the schools still in poor condition could
not be easily reinforced or refurbished and may need replacement in the future. Another useful
strategy during the project's last phase was the move to encourage communities to assume
responsibility for maintaining and improving their education facilities and grounds by providing
them with some funds for materials and labor. This approach to rehabilitation and maintenance
has given good results, at considerable less cost.
Provision of educational materials
17.  In order to strengthen the teaching process and to attenuate the educational disadvantages
for children living in poor areas, the project placed particular emphasis on developing,
reproducing and distributing materials including textbooks, school libraries (which comprised
books for children, didactic materials for teachers, and reading books of general interest for the
community), bilingual books, teaching aids and school supplies. During the stated period,
distribution of didactic materials, books and supplies reached the set targets and benefited a total
of 5,584,305 children (of which over 50% were living in extreme poverty); these materials were
also utilized by 210,767 teachers in 68,274 primary schools of the four states.
18. CONAFE, in coordination with the General Directorate of Indigenous Education (DGEI)
and the education secretariats encouraged the families of the indigenous regions in the four states
to send their children to primary schools, by teaching in the eight main indigenous languages.
To this end, the project helped develop, produce and publish text books and exercise booklets for
up to fourth grade, in eight indigenous languages. To guide this work, specialized teams were
formed in each state. In the first phase, 24 titles for the first cycle of primary were printed and
this material was used by 89,555 children and 6,713 teachers and principals. In the second
phase, in 1994-95, books for the second cycle were printed, in the same 8 languages. Up to
1995, this sub-component was beneficial to 153,050 children and 8,210 teachers from both
cycles. Its coverage was 55% of the target set at appraisal because the development of materials
in so many languages took considerably more time than anticipated. Nevertheless, this should



6
not detract from the achievement that, for the first time in the country, there are primary level
books and materials in the eight main indigenous languages. The DGEI is currently evaluating
those textbooks and materials to learn from the experience before developing similar material for
the third cycle of basic education and to revise the materials for the first two cycles as
appropriate.
School Libraries
19.  Another enhancement for schools belonging to communities with high incidence of
poverty and for bilingual schools was the provision of libraries (rincones de lectura). At least
50% of the children who received these books belonged to communities with the mentioned
characteristics. This prograrn had existed since 1986 in small scale and only had reached a few
urban areas. Its expansion through the project was preceded by one month of radio advertising to
advise schools on the formation of a library committee (consisting of a teacher, a student, and a
parent); these committees became contractually responsible for establishing and maintaining the
libraries in their respective schools. The original target was to provide 159 titles and a total of
2.5 million books to establish libraries in all primary schools of the four states, and by 1994 the
project had distributed 2.2 million library books to primary schools including all indigenous
schools, as well as materials to community courses; in 1995-96 the distribution was completed
by sending an additional 1.4 million library books. In all, 3.6 million books reached the rural
primary schools of the four states, surpassing the original target by 12%. The extent of
utilization of these resources and the impact on teachers, children and the community, would
need to be followed up through PAREB.
Teacher Training
20.  The objectives of this large sub-component were directed to teachers, principals and
supervisors. First, the goal was to upgrade skills of the teachers' subject matter knowledge,
conmmand of instructional techniques, and ability to handle multigrade teaching, as well as to
improve their abilities to monitor and evaluate student performance. A second objective was to
improve the technical support capacity of school principals and supervisors. Additionally,
support would be given to raising the quality of pre-service training by training current
professors and teachers in training institutes. Training took place in two ways: (a) intensive
courses during the Summer for teachers of general primary schools and those of indigenous
schools; and (b) courses during three months of the school period, through 8-hour sessions on
Saturdays, carried out by previously trained zone supervisors, for general primary school
teachers and trainers of teachers. Additionally, for the latter, special events, seminars, round
tables, conferences and workshops took place to update them on the results of recent research
and innovations in education. Through all these activities, the targets set in the project at
appraisal were amply met. In all, 265,452 primary teachers from rural, semi-rural, and
indigenous schools of the four states were trained, surpassing the target by about 20%.
21.  Training of teachers was based on well structured materials, specifically prepared,
including diagnostic self-evaluations on each subject, reading lists, and suggestions for activities



7
within and outside the classroom. This methodological approach ensured little deviation from
the substantive contents of the subjects to be taught, independent of the quality of the tutor.
Training also encouraged the acquisition of knowledge in an active manner, on the basis of the
experience and previous knowledge of the trainee. Moreover, video programs were prepared, as
a "distance learning" form of reaching rural and indigenous primary teachers, to explain to
them the strategy for promoting the principles of the new curricula and to give them tools
(particularly multigrade teachers) to enrich their educational skills. Additionally, the Oaxaca the
"teleprimaria" program, intended for primary students at various levels will be used to train
teachers.
22. There are indications of a positive impact from all these training efforts on teachers of the
compensatory programs, who expressed their satisfaction for being "taken into account by the
system". However, changes in teaching practices is a slow process that will need to be
continuously nurtured to get the necessary results. The following conclusions emerged from this
experience: (a) it is important to pay closer attention to the practical aspects of course contents,
so that those can be translated into classroom activities; and (b) in order to develop significant
teaching experiences teachers should be given opportunities during training to present their most
used working or teaching styles, and to encourage open discussions on course contents, so that
best practices can be incorporated into future teacher training.
B. Institutional Strengthening Component
Provision Of Work Incentives To Teachers
23. Incentives were provided to general primary and indigenous teachers working in marginal
and extremely isolated rural areas, to reduce high teacher turnover and absenteeism and to
encourage a better distribution of teachers within each of the states, thus improving access to
educational services for the children of poor families living in those areas. The incentive is equal
to the basic salary of the primary school teacher and is strictly attached to the school, so that the
teacher looses it if he or she transfers to another school. The project paid incentives to 5,400
teachers in 3,537 schools with over 160,000 students. This represented 40% of all teachers
working in rural or indigenous communities selected according to the above described
characteristics, and fulfilled 100% of the set target. Fifty per cent of those teachers belong to the
indigenous education sub-system, working in schools located in the jungles of Chiapas, the
mountains of Guerrero, "La Huasteca" in Hidalgo and "La Mixteca" in Oaxaca. Although when
this program begun in 1992 there was some confusion among teachers on the objective and
eligibility for this incentive, these problems were mostly resolved with the participation of
parents' associations to supervise teacher compliance with the contracted conditions for receiving
the incentive. The effects of the incentive to teacher turnover appear to have been significant:
from a usual 80% rotation in schools located in remote rural areas, analysis of the payroll show
that the rotation index decreased by about 15%, to 65%. The state education secretariat will need
to continue to monitor the effects of these school related incentives. In the future, it might be
useful to consider variants of this system, for teachers with exceptional performance.



8
24. Since 1996, another form of incentives to schools was initiated, consisting of providing a
small fund of M$5,000 to parents associations for improvements, supplies, and maintenance of
the grounds and school buildings and furniture. The program comprises 1,930 schools, where
parents are beginning to show much more interest in the schools and the educational activities
and are playing a responsible role in reporting on teacher performance. Further evaluation of
both incentive systems will require follow up through PAREB.
Improvement of The Supervision System
25.   It was not an easy task to introduce changes in the supervision system in order to
transform it into a tool to give technical support to teachers, besides fulfilling its traditional
administrative and monitoring functions. To this end, the project adopted measures such as
providing allowances to 1,230 supervisors (of which 147 were zone chiefs) for visiting schools
in difficult to reach locations. The project also financed building and equipping of 1,039 small,
conveniently located offices for supervisors (of which 123 are for zone chiefs), purchasing 277
vehicles, providing relevant training, and changing supervisors' functions by involving them in
training teachers, both in courses and during supervisory visits. Thirty five percent of the new
supervisor's offices were built in indigenous zones. All these inputs met the SAR targets, and in
the case of office construction, these were exceeded by 38%. Although the old style supervision
has not disappeared and administrative work is still in many instances the focus of supervision,
significant changes are beginning to be observed as a result of training, new job requirements and
standards for measuring supervisors' performance. The changed rules can no longer be ignored
by supervisors and there are many instances of retirements when new standards are not accepted
or can not be met. With all these elements of support to supervision, the number of visits to
targeted schools by supervisors has increased remarkably in the last five years, from 237 annual
supervisory visits in 1991, to over 5,700 in the period 1992-96.
Organization/Management Strengthening of the Support Service Delivery and
Management Capacity
26. The appraisal requirements for this component were designed to improve problems of
storage and distribution of educational materials by constructing a network of 43 warehouses,
and providing 43 vehicles of 3.5 ton capacity. Another objective was to strengthen the
management capacity of SEP at both central and state levels, by financing technical assistance to
support project coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities, as well as training for
technical, managerial, and administrative staff. By the end of 1993, thirty two warehouses had
been built and equipped and vehicles provided; the task was completed in 1994 with construction
of other 11 warehouses and similar equipment and vehicles, meeting in this way the established
targets.
27. The other part of the institutional development component was devoted to develop
management and leadership capacity among middle and high levels of administration. One
hundred eighteen management courses took place during the period 1993-96 on leadership and
management, and on policy, planning, program, and project analysis. Other courses dealt with



9
instruments for program management, including use of indicators and monitoring and evaluation
systems, personnel and organization management and development, administration of
infrastructure, equipment and materials, and administration of financial resources. Three
subjects cut across each of these courses: (a) organizational and pedagogic reform and
innovation; (b) decentralization context (Federalization); and (c) information systems (handling
data bases and information). For organization and preparation of the management courses,
Technical Groups were formed at central and state levels with the objective of identifying
consultants and instructors/lecturers to be contracted, select and prepare course contents and
materials, agree on methods and prepare a technical file. Additionally, 38 special courses took
place, dealing with knowledge acquisition evaluation, financial accounting of educational
projects, microplanning, exchange visits among states, programming and budget, procurement
and bid process, information systems and updating computer software and hardware, and
organizational development. Management training abroad took place through attendance to
courses and observation visits to countries that are also developing new educational policies,
plans and models. Countries visited included Colombia, Chile, Guatemala and El Salvador.
28. Lastly, this component financed seven promotional campaigns to inform the public about
the new orientation and strengthening of the educational system and to seek, through better
understanding, improved community cooperation. This was accomplished through billboards,
meetings, radio and television spots, in coordination with the social communication sections of
the Education Secretariats in the four states.
Improvement In The Information Monitoring And Evaluation Systems & Selected Studies
29. This sub-component planned support to a revision of SEP's existing information system
to improve the relevancy of the data being collected as well as the effectiveness of the
information networks between the states and with the central level. It also aimed at a more
decentralized use of the information for management and evaluation purposes. This was to be
done through technical assistance, additional equipment and training. The mid-term review
carried out by the Bank in September, 1994 found that although the design of the information
system had been initiated in 1992, very little had been accomplished up to that moment. That
mission identified problem impeding progress, including the need for technical assistance,
computers functioning outside consolidated systems and networks within each state, and with
incomplete technical support for users. This was making it impossible, for instance, to obtain
simple information on the progress of teacher training and on school incentives. The mission
advised on a number of actions to move ahead with the design of the system and recommended
to change the strategy in order to begin receiving, within a few months, information on PARE's
performance, so that it could be utilized by management in the preparation of PAREB.
30. The most important recommendation was that a new strategy and a new team were needed,
no later than the end of 1994, to develop in phases a responsive information system. Steps
suggested were, inter alia: to coordinate the various groups dealing with information, give
technical support to users, and have initially a simple system to handle essential data exchange
on PARE (first Primary Education Project), and move later on (in 1995) to a more sophisticated



10
system (to be piloted first in one state) introducing electronic mail and general information
boards, servers and local networks for the states, relevant software, and a plan for training users
in utilization of the system. In early 1995 a supervision mission found that progress was not
forthcoming and the work done on information systems continued to be inadequate and in
October the Bank and the Government decided to cancel this sub-component and transfer the
responsibility for developing a new education information system, to the restructured PAREB
project.
31. Regarding the implementation of project financed studies, an issue that was the subject of
many exchanges during the first two years of the project between the Bank and CONAFE, was
the design and contracting of consulting groups to undertake impact evaluation studies. It was
concluded that there were only two qualified groups to do this work in Mexico (the Centro de
Estudios Educativos and the Grupo the Investigaci6n de la Universidad de las Americas); but
each had different kinds of expertise; therefore it was decided to split the assignments of
qualitative and quantitative evaluation between the two groups. It took several revisions to arrive
at final products, which still fell short of providing clear guidance for designing educational
changes and improvements. These studies were disproportionately costly in comparison with
their usefulness for assessing the results of educational inputs on students' achievement, quality
of teaching, and internal efficiency. The detailed terms of reference prepared to invite bids for the
studies were adaptations to the capabilities available in the institutions within the country and the
concept of longitudinal studies proposed at appraisal was broadly interpreted.
32.  Moreover, the studies were carried out in 1993-94, at a time when the contributions of the
project were just being introduced in the selected primary schools of the four states.
Construction of facilities, training of teachers, distribution of materials and reinforcement of
supervision were at various stages of execution during that period; consequently, it was not
possible to fully attribute the conclusions of the studies to the project inputs. A useful
application of the study results, that were based on data gathered in 1993-94, could be as baseline
data to make comparisons with other studies that might be undertaken in the future, in the same
geographic areas and on the same subjects. This experience points to the importance of timing,
specificity of terms of reference and use of experts in the definition of complicated studies or
consultancies, as well as allowing wide international competition among qualified institutions
before selecting consultants for expensive studies requiring a well qualified pool of various kinds
of professional backgrounds. There was a more positive experience with the evaluation study on
the pilot program of"teleprimaria" in Oaxaca, which provided useful findings to guide the fine
tuning of video programs for use as distance education tools for primary school students and for
training teachers.
Procurement of Goods and Services
33.  There were delays during the project in carrying out procurement; the l'roject Coordinating
Unit (CPU) staff considered that this was due to the numerous steps reuLIir-ed to obtain clearances
from the national financial institution and the Bank; there are also ratlier elaborate administrativc
steps within the implementing agencies at state and central levels. CONAFE is studying thc
existing procedures and has identified 180 steps required in bi iding proce'ses, withi potcnaial foir



11
bottlenecks at several stages. It is discussing this issue with NAFIN and the Bank, for new
projects, in an effort to simplify procedures, while maintaining accountability and transparency.
A related issue is the need to determine from the beginning the type of procurement to be applied
to specific packages. In cases where interest from foreign contractors is unlikely because of the
nature of the construction program, mainly consisting of small and scattered facilities, or of
simple furniture, it would be more expedite to designate such packages for local competitive
bidding.
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES
34. The main project objective consisting of expanding primary education giving priority to
low income communities located in places far away from urban centers, and improving the
quality and efficiency of primary education, focusing on the mentioned selected areas of four
Mexican states (Oaxaca, Guzerrero, Chiapas and Hidalgo) was to be achieved by increasing the
number of schools and reducing the high repetition and dropout rates, raising the level of
cognitive achievement of children, and strengthening management of the primary education
system. The project achieved a remarkable progress in extending primary education services,
reaching, and in many cases surpassing, the physical targets. Moreover, it correctly targeted
those services by investing over 60% of the resources for infrastructure in very poor communities
and the other 40% in places with medium levels of poverty. Incentives were paid to 5,400
teachers, representing 40% of all teachers working in rural or indigenous communities. The
project also trained over 265,000 teachers, as well as principals and supervisors, going 3 to 12%
above the set target for almost all categories of training. Although there were delays for didactic
and library materials to get to certain schools, particularly at the beginning because of the
difficulties in reaching certain locations, toward project completion all targets had been reached,
with preference given to schools located in areas of extreme poverty (71% of the school
receiving materials were in those areas, compared to a target of 68%).
35. Regarding measures of quality and efficiency, the evaluation studies did not give definitive
answers because the studies had design problems and took place too early in the project
implementation to measure real impact. Indications of statewide changes during the period are
given by information from the SEP system of continuous statistics, from 1990-91 to 1994-95.
They show that there was a slightly declining trend in dropout rates in three states -Hidalgo,
Oaxaca and Guerrero - while in Chiapas there was an increase in the last year after two years of
modest decline. Terminal efficiency trends showed improvements in the four states.
It may be concluded that the project provided a good starting point towards reaching stated
objectives. It also achieved remarkable advances in compensating for inequalities by expanding
and improving the school infrastructure, ensuring teacher permanence, training teachers and
supervisors, and making available excellent educational materials in remote areas. However, the
task is by no means completed. The compensatory primary education system still needs better
measuring and evaluation tools and the four states still remain in the lower range in the scale of
educational achievements nationwide, indicating that significant further efforts are needed to
balance educational resources and complete the task.



12
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not subject to Government control
36. Although the decentralization of the educational system that took place during project
execution created some problems, it was an unavoidable part of the educational reform. In turn,
decentralization and community involvement gave considerable impetus to the project, lowered
the costs of school construction, facilitated monitoring of teacher attendance and helped in
distribution of materials.
Factors subject to Government control
37. Like in other projects in Mexico, annual delays in transfer of budgetary allocation to the
project affected this project during the first four years and delayed activities and disbursements.
These delays affected particularly the use of project funds for recurrent expenditures, since the
overall level of disbursements for this category ended up being much lower than estimated. In
the last year of the project, the Government regularized the process of budgeting and funding,
making financing available for all project activities at the beginning of the year. This continued
to be the case in 1997 for other related education projects.
Factors subject to implementing agency control
38. Changes in the manner of implementation of the construction component took a long time
to be effected. Discussions between CONAFE and the Bank on the high costs of construction
through CAFCE extended for at least two years and only were resolved in 1996, when new
management in CONAFE took over. The decision to delegate responsibility for administering
and implementing construction to the State Education Secretariats and the municipalities, and
resorting to community cooperation for construction and maintenance proved very effective in
lowering costs and expediting construction, but savings would have been considerable if
solutions would have been found earlier in the project period.
39. There were problems with timing, design and contracting of evaluation studies. These
studies ended up being extremely costly and their results of limited value. A design that would
have allowed to take some measurements of conditions of educational quality and achievements
in 1992-93 as a baseline, and a repeat of those studies in 1996 (or a longitudinal study as planned
at appraisal), would have been more useful. CONAFE would have obtained better results by
contracting consultants with expertise and first hand knowledge in measurement of special
interventions to promote equity. If the expertise was not available at that time in the country, it
would have been more cost-effective to undertake a wider search, including institutions of other
countries of Latin America and elsewhere.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
40. The innovations introduced through this project in the primary education system of four
states to assist them in closing the gap of coverage and improving the quality of schools in poor
and indigenous communities have not yet reached its full potential, although they are well
conceived and should come to fruition in follow-up projects such as PAREB. Decentralization



13
of the education system and the involvement of parents and communities will facilitate its
assimilation into the regular state systems. Absorption at local level would make these programs
more affordable, because promotion of equity and quality in primary education will need to
continue for the medium term (ten to fifteen years) in the poorest states. Sustainability would be
assured through an increased awareness by parents in all communities of what they can demand
of the education system.
BANK PERFORMANCE
41. Preparation and Appraisal. This project had a one year preparation period, from its
identification in early 1990, to its appraisal in March 1991. Preparation was of good quality and
included, in 1990, a Background Paper on Education in Mexico. Preparatory activities received
consultant support financed through a Japanese Assistance Grant. Several studies took place
during the preparation period including a microplanning survey in three states, assessment of
needs for an education information system and an evaluation system, as well as support to the
technical group that was preparing the sub-component on distance education. The longitudinal
studies for evaluation of children's cognitive and educational achievement described at appraisal
would have consisted of following up student streams or cohorts, representative of different types
of primary schools, both in the project areas and in locations used as control; these longitudinal
surveys, if properly designed and implemented as planned, would have enabled to obtain
comparative data throughout the project period and, at the same time, develop a methodology for
continued evaluation.
42. Supervision. The project was well supervised by the Bank through two or three missions
a year and the presence (since May 1993) of an implementation facilitator for infrastructure in
the Bank Resident Mission in Mexico City. A constant preoccupation of the missions during the
first part of each year was the lack of funds for the project, due to a delay of six months in the
release of funds by the Federal Government, and this detracted from the attention that should
have been paid to technical aspects. Even so, Bank missions were thorough in their reviews and
always careful to make field visits to observe real events and obtain first hand information from
state staff and authorities. An exception to this careful monitoring of project performance was
the unclear positions adopted and communicated by supervision teams regarding terms of
reference, invitations to consultants and their selection, as well as weak feedback during
implementation of the evaluation studies.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
43. The transfer of the Project Coordinating Unit to CONAFE did not appear to cause undue
problems, although some delays in implementation experienced during the first two years may
have been in part the result of frequent management and other personnel turnover at the PCU.
But the cause of many delays was clearly the yearly hiatus between the budget approval for
project activities which took place in January, and the release of funds in June. This problem
was finally solved in 1996, as explained earlier. The PCU could have been more decisive in
decentralizing the construction of schools to the state and local levels earlier, and in ensuring an



14
appropriate design, technical assistance and monitoring for the management information system
and the evaluation studies.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.  When this project closed, it had comfortably met all the physical targets of service
coverage, distribution of materials, textbooks and libraries, as well as those regarding training of
teachers and managers. It also achieved significant progress in developing and distributing
textbooks and teachers' guides in eight indigenous languages and initiating distribution of
guidelines, promotional materials, and special training, to help teachers utilize the rich supply of
well conceived books and teaching aids. A stricter control and quicker corrective decisions could
have resulted in greater economies in the construction sub-component. Regarding institutional
development, some progress was made in starting the change process in supervision, by defining
these functions as supportive and tutoring, rather than exclusively administrative, but it will be
necessary to increase efforts to make this strategy fully effective. Introduction of incentives for
teachers in schools located in places of difficult access and low development appears to be a
good instrument to improve teacher attendance and permanence. In other institutional
development actions, there was little advance in modernizing the information systems, and in
establishing a good base for improving evaluation. These shortcomings could have been lessened
if the PCU had acted with less reluctance in resorting to the best possible sources of technical
assistance in evaluation studies and in development of a computerized management information
system.



15
LESSONS LEARNED
a) In social sector projects consisting of expanding services and improving quality, intellectual
resources and administrative efforts need to be balanced, so that no only physical expansion
targets are met, but substantive work is devoted to institutional building;
b) In order to improve the quality of primary education in rural and poor communities in
Mexico it would be cost-effective to focus attention on development of appropriate
methodelogies and teacher training for multigrade situations since they make up 60% of all
schools in the country and a much higher proportion in the areas covered by this project.
c) Tangible benefits are gained by incorporating parents in the school activities, including
monitoring teacher attendance and performance, and there is evidence that in poor
communities these benefits increase if parents receive training and parents' associations are
given a minimum of financial resources for justifiable and verifiable activities, such as school
maintenance and appearance. This approach will require periodic examination and
refreshment to maintain positive interaction among parents, school and teachers.
d) The approach used toward the end of this project, of decentralizing administration and
implementation of construction of schools to the municipalities and the community has
demonstrated its advantages, both in terms of lower costs and expeditiousness; CONAFE has
developed detailed procedures and financial controls for delegating the construction related
transactions to municipalities. The approach should be validated through PAREB.
e) Delays experienced during the initial stages of the project in procurement may be attributed
to the use of rigid, centralized procedures and lack of training and the high turnover of the
staff responsible for these tasks; this demonstrated the need for training the relevant staff
before project initiation and for a proper transition when staff changes occur.
f) The project also demonstrated the effectiveness of decentralizing procurement to regional and
state levels, and the need to review and simplify, as much as possible, the steps required to
complete a bidding process, as well as to select and contract technical assistance with funds
from an international loan; this issue should be revisited in the context of new projects.
g) Development of management information systems in any sector is a complex task and its
success depends heavily on highly skilled technical expertise for the design of the system; the
overall high cost and the usefulness of such systems justify the use of the best quality of
technical assistance available through national or international recruiting. The finalized
design should include the specifications for the equipment to be purchased.
h) The weakness of the products resulting from the evaluation studies points to the importance
of timing, specificity of terms of reference and use of experts in the definition of complicated
studies or consultancies, and allowing wide competition among qualified institutions before
selecting consultants for studies requiring a pool of various kinds of expertise and hands-on
experience on the subjects being evaluated. Moreover, the project coordinating office should
provide a proper follow up to ensure an acceptable final product.



16
FUTURE OPERATIONS
45. PAREB was restructured in 1996 to continue supporting, until the end of 1999, primary
education innovations in the four states covered by this project, as well as in other 10 states with
similar issues to address in primary education. Thus, it will be possible to keep working on all
recommendations concerning refinements in teaching approaches and methodology, supervision,
management information, community involvement, as well as on evaluation.



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3407-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
Table 5:    Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:    Studies included in Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants



18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                            4
Sector policies                                          4
Financial objectives                                                                      4
Institutional development                                4
Physical objectives                      4
Poverty reduction                                        4
Gender issues                                            4
Other social objectives                  4
Environmental objectives                                                                  4
Public sector management                                 4
Private sector development                                                                4
Other (specify)
B,_ Project -ostatnahitity               L_kely     X    iilikely . Thice.to. L
Sustainability                           4
C  Bankpe.taring.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wst:i;:;:;:;:.........~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
.....  _   _       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
Preparation assistance                   4
Appraisal                                4
Supervision                                              4
~~~~~~~~~~~..........   X.    ...........                                ....  .g   .    . ............   0......,W
Preparation                              4
Implementation                                           41
Covenant compliance                                     41
Operation                                               41
Assessment of Overall Outcome                            4



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ...... . ....
..                                                ..                           .
Initial         Improving the quality and efficiency of     1992       Closed     IE activities in the selected states will
Education Loan  initial education in the 10 poorest                             continue under a restructured Second
3518-ME         Mexican states and increasing                                   Education Project
participation of low income
Primary         Improve quality and efficiency of primary   1994      Ongoing  The Loan Agreement was amended and
Education II    education, focusing on the poorest                              approved by Board on 5/15/97, to include
Loan 3722-ME   municipalities, and continuing with Initial                      continuation of IE activities initiated with
Education activities.                                           Loan 3518-ME



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
lanned              tix3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..at........
1. Preparation                                          03/90                  11/20/89
2. Appraisal                                          03/03/91                 03/03/91
3. Negotiations                                       08/06/91                 08/06/91
4. Board presentation                                 09/24/91                 09/24/91
5. Signing                                            10/14/91                 10/14/91
6. Effectiveness                                        11/91                  12/11/91
7. Project completion                                 07/15/97                 11/07/97
8. Loan closing                                       06/30/96                 06/30/97
Project Timetables
24-Jul-98
11-Mar-97 -
28-Oct-95
A 15-Jun-94-
-4Date planned
a 31-Jan-93 -      -  1      . A  +
1 9-Sep-91              ;                . -U- l Date actual
7-May-90
23-Dec-88 _     f .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Processing Steps



21
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
(Bank Fiscal Year)
Appraisal estimates            15.0       43.0       107.0       187.0      239.0      250.0
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Revised Estimates 2            19.2       99.4       152.7      174.0       190.0      212.6
Actual                         19.2       99.4       152.7       173.9      186.1      195.2 3
Disbursements
Actual as % of                100.0       100.0      100.0       99.9       97.9        91.8
Revised Estimate
Date of Last
Disbursement                April 24, 1997
Disbursements
260
240
220
200                                            __ _ _ __ _ _ __  _ _
180                                          [-4.-Appraisal estimates
o  160 
E140
40120                                           -U-Revised estimates
Th  100                                                (1995)
80 aSieActualDisbursements
40-
20
0
LL     LL.            LL      L.     LI.
2The Government requested a cancellation of US$37.4 million in July 1995.
3Teamount of US$17.4 million was canceled at loan closing.



22
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
Key Implementation Indicators at    Original Targets through     Actual        Percent
Project Appraisal                     1996            Achieved as of   Achieved
Dec. 31, 1996     over
Revised
Targets
DIDACTIC MATERIALS
No. of schools to receive educational           66,250                68,274        103%
materials
of which extreme poverty                     68%                  71%           104%
No. of students to be reached 5               5,151,500            5,584,305        108%
No. of teachers benefited                      200,000               210,787        106%
No. of schools benefited                        56,500               68,274         121%
LIBRARY BOOKS
No. of schools to receive library books
No. of Librarypackages                          15,500                17,356        112%
No. of library books distributed                28,000                27,911        100%
3,600,000           3,615,744        100%
BILINGUAL READING BOOKS
No. of textbooks distributed 6                   N/A                174,032
No. of reading books distributed                 N/A                 173,132
No. of Schools benefited                         N/A                  2,104
No. of children benefited                      280,000              153,050         55%
No, of Teachers benefited                        N/A                  8,210
No. of teachers guides                           N/A                 14,166
TEACHER AND
ADMINISTRATOR TRAINING
Summer intensive courses:
- Rural teachers, principals, supervisors
-Urban teachers, principals, supervisors     46,000
-Indigenous teachers, principals,                                {180,373       100%
supervisors                                  37,000
40,000               {85,079       100%
Semi-monthly courses:
-Rural teachers, principals, supervisors
-Urban teachers, principals, supervisors     54,000
{included
43,000              3bcve}
Training CONAFE instructors                  6,000                  N/A
Teachers of teachers training                3,200                  4,117       138%
4The abbreviation N/A means that there were no targets set for the corresponding indicators, but the results are reported for
their high significance as project accomplishments.
5Npmkers apply, for all beneficiaries, to the five year period 1992-97.
6Tegtbooks distributed in 8 local dialects.



23
DISTANCE ED. MATERIALS
- Production of video for training           60 (revised 32)           32            100%
- Production of audio for training          270 (revised 72)           72            100%
- Production od video, indigenous             (revised 32)             32            100%
- Production of Radio programs
- Indigenous radio programs                    (revised 8)              8            100%
- Pilot TV Oaxaca Program                  1,080 (revised N/A)         612           57%
- Pilot Radio Serial Oaxaca                 156 (revised N/A)          104           67%/o
- Pilot Videos, Oaxaca                           N/A                  90 (82
indigenous)
NO. OF TEACHERS RECEIVING
INCENTIVES                                       5,400                5,400          100%
SUPERVISORS offices & eq.7                       1,210                1,039          86%
SUPPORT SERVICES
WAREHOUSES to be built                            43                   43            100%
Other support facilities 8
- New construction                             1,068               2,282 9        214%
- rehabilitations                              N/A                   322
CLASSROOMS
- New construction                             6,117                6,875         113%
- Annexes                                      4,957                5,204         105%
- Rehabilitation
BUDGET ALLOCATION INCREASE                        2%,
FOR PRIMARY PER YEAR                    2.8%,4%,5%,5%(increases
in 1992-96)
7It comprises supervision offices and sector headquarters.
8Includes sanitary facilities (about 85%) and offices and supply rooms.
9It was possible to lower costs considerably by using the community to do these works; therefore the target was doubled.



24
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study              Purpose as defined at       Status                Impact
Appraisal/ redefined
Impact Evaluation and Cost-   Evaluate impact of project  Completed   Findings unclear to evaluate
Effectiveness of the PARE   activities and measure cost               impact
Program (Quantitative       effectiveness of
Evaluation)                 interventions
Qualitative evaluation of the    Redefined objective was to  Completed  Report provided copious
PARE Program                obtain first-hand                        information on the results of
information on current                   interviews. Although
attitudes of teachers and                informative, report was
supervisors on the changes               anecdotal, since samples did
in the primary education                 not have statistical
system. It was based on                  significance.
interviews of a sample of
communities and
education facilities
Evaluation of Impact of     Evaluate the impact of the   Completed    The evaluation was well
Oaxaca "Teleprimaria"       pilot program and the                     conducted and provided
Program (Distance Education)  feasibility of its extension.           considerable material and
recommendations for
improving and expanding this
program.



25
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                   Actual Costs
Item Loa         Foeg        Toa         %         oa       oeg    Total  
1. Civil         101        18         119       15%       97.4      17.5    114.9    15%
Works
2. Furniture      8          2         10        22%       6.4        1.8      8.2     22%
and equip.
(excl.
vehicles and
educ.
materials)
3. Vehicles       4          1          5        19%       3.2       0.7      3.9      19%
4.               25          4         29        21%       28.4      7.6      36.0    21%
Educational
materials
5. Training,     33          7         40       27%'       29.7      11.1     33.8     12%
studies, and
tech. assist.
6. Teacher                  46         46         -        44.6       -       44.6       -
incentives
7.                9          2         11        14%       23.6      3.4      27.0     13%
Incremental
Costs
Baseline         264        41         305       13%      233.3      35.1    268.4    13%
Costs
Physical          12         2         14        14%        -        -0.1    -0.110      -
contingencies
Price            31          2         33        6%                   -        -
Contingencie
s
Total Project    308        44         352       13%      233.3      35.0   268.3      13%
Costs        I_I                   I_I_I
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                        Actual Costs
Source      Local Costs    Foreign        Total     Local Costs   Foreign       Total
Costs                                 Costs
IBRD           206.0         44.0         250.0        160.2        35.0        195.2
Government        102.0          -           102.0        73.1          -          73.1
Total         308.0         44.0         352.0        233.3        35.0         268.3
'Effect of pulling in initial special account.
"Ift includes US$2.9 million contributed by the four estates, as follows: Chiapas 32%, Hidalgo 15%, Guerrero 1%,
Oaxaca 52%.



26
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation to Appraisal       -55.0                                        135.1
Appraisal                                                  9.2               23.0
N.gotiations through Board Approval                        7.1                19.0
SuperviSion                                            * 159.2              217.5
C~ompletion                                               16.0               21.8
* It includes time spent in construction supervision by resident Bank Staff



Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
..     ....................:::...:::...::...:::...:::..
Through Appraisal
Identification               11/89          2             1               EA                 N/A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                  3/90           3             2               EA                 N/A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                  6/90           4             3              EAC                 N/A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation                  8/90           6             3              EAD                 N/A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation (Pre-appr)       10/90          7             3              EADH                N/A                 N/A               N/A
Preparation
Preparation
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal                   3-4/91          7             3              AEDH                N/A                 N/A               N/A
Post Appraisal               4/91           4             1                IC                N/A                 N/A               N/A
Supervision
Supervision 1                11/91          1             1                D                   I                  I
Supervision 2                12/91          4             1              EAH                   2                  1                TM
Supervision 3-               1/92           4             1              AED                   2                  1               FMT
Supervision 4                3/92           4             1              ADH                   2                  1               FM-T
Supervision 5                8/92           4-            1              EADH                  2                  I                MT
Supervision 6                10/92          3                             AB-                  2                  1                MI
Supervision 7                12/92          6             2              ACDB                  2                  I               MTF
Completion
a A= Education Specialist; B1=Management;- C=Procurement Specialist; D=Architect; E=HR Economist; F=Portfolio- Manager, G=Office Manager; H=Task Assistant; I+lnfo.
Systems; J=Financial AnaLyst.
b/ 1= Problem Free; 2=Moderate; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory
c/ M=Management; F=Financial; P=Procurement; S-=Studies; E=Monitoring &EvaL; T=TechnicaLAssessment; TR=Trainirg;



Supervision
Supervision 8                 6/93          7              2             AEDM                   2                   1                MT
Supervision 9                 2/94          7              1             ADCMI                  2                   1               FMT
Supervision 10*               9/94          8              2             AMCDI                  2                                    TM
Supervision 11                4/95          1              4                J                   2                   1                 F
Supervision 12                7/95          3              1              ACD                   2                   1                TM
Supervision 13               11/95          4              1              ACD                   2                                    TM
Supervision 14               10/96          4              1              ACD                   2                   1                TM
Supervision 15               10/96          3              1               AD                   2                   1                MT
Supervision 16                5/97          3              1              ABC                   2                   1                MT
Supervision 17**                            3              2               BC                   I                   I
Completion
a/ A= Education Specialist; B=Management; C=Procurement Specialist; D=Architect; E=HR Economist; F=Portfolio Manager; G=Office Manager; H=Task Assistant; I= Info.
System; J=Financial Analyst.
b/ I= Problem Free; 2=Moderate; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory
_/ M=Management; F=Financial; P=Procurement; S=Studies; E=Monitoring & Eval.; T=Technical Assessment; TR=Training;
**ICR mission, to close project
Patricia Casco, LASHD
0:\MXEDTEAM\7690_1CR\TAl3LES.DOC
November 21, 1997 4:24 PM



29
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Guarantee
3.01         01        C       01/14/92                Borrower and Guarantor to enter into      Complied
contractual arrangements providing for
transfer of funds. Such arrangements to
be furnished to the Bank.                                                 l
3.03 (a)      08         C                               Public primary school supervisors to     Distribution Completed.
distribute educational material packages
to indigenous and CONAFE schools and
multi-grade general primary schools
with no more than one or two teachers.
3.03 (b)       13        C       11/30/91                School needs survey to be furnished to   Survey completed and furnished
the Bank and precise content of          to Bank.
educational material packages under
3.03 (a) above to be revised on the basis
of this survey.
3.04         13        C                               SEPs Educational Publications Unit to     Distribution completed (15,289
distribute library books: (i) during first    schools).
year of project implementation to
indigenous schools and rural schools
with not more than five teachers; and (ii)
during subsequent years, to urban
schools and larger rural schools.
3.05 (a)       13        C                               SEP to carry out Teacher and Training    More than 185,000 have been
Incentives programs with the assistance    trained (October 1996).
of GTCs and GTEs, under supervision
of:(i) DGEI for indigenous teacher,
principal or supervisor training; (ii)
DGEP for primary education teacher,
principal or supervisor training; (iii)
CONAFE for its community instructors;
and (iv) CONACEN for teacher trainers.
3.05 (b) (i)    13        C                               Each GTC to be composed of teacher        Complied.
training specialists, of which half are
SEP professionals, and half
professionals provide by other teacher
l___________    _________        _____________  training   institutions.
3.05 (b)       13        C                               GTC to train member of GTEs,             Complied.
(ii)                                                   supervise GTEs, and prepare, test and
produce the course materials required for
teacher training programs.
3.05 (b)       13        C                               GTEs to: (a) select and train instructors    Complied.
(iii)                                                  who will train the teachers, principals or
supervisors; (b) monitor progress of
such teachers, principals or supervisors
in the courses they take; (c) be
responsible for day-to-day operations of
training programs; and (d) monitor
__________  _________attendance at training sessions.
3.05 (b)       13        C                               Training incentives under the teacher    Complied.
(iv)                                                   training program to be distributed in
accordance with terms of SEP's 1974
regulation of employee promotion rules.



30
3,05 (c)      13        C      06/30/92                SEP to submit to the Bank for review a    Complied.
detailed description of teacher training
courses and course materials.
3,0,6 (4)     13        C                              Distance Education Program to be        Complied.
carried out through a technical
committee headed by a general
coordinator and including
representatives from DGEI, DGEP and
CONAFE, all acting under the
I_________                                               supervision of SEP's Television Unit.                                   l
' 3.06 (b)     13         C      04/30/92    03/31/94   SEP to cause: (i) radio programs under    Complied
the Distance Education Program to be
Broadcast by local radio station for free;
(ii) television programs to be broadcast
by Radio Television programs to be
broadcast by Radio Television de
Oaxaca for free; and (iii) SEP to present
to the Bank for approval the description
of all Distance Education programs as
well as transmission schedules in the
case programs to be broadcast.
3. ,Q7 (A)    X 3!      ''                             CAPFCE to carry out all civil works     Complied.
financed with Loan proceeds as follow:
(i) prototype designs, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be followed for new
facilities constructed under the Project,
and to the extent feasible, for
rehabilitated facilities under the Project;
and (ii) no furniture and equipment
would be procured under the Project
unless contained in prototype furniture
and equipment lists, prepared for each
I________               type of facility by SEP.
3A7 (b)        13       C                   12/31/91   SEP to complete preparation of technical  Technical plan completed. The
plans for all rehabilitation work under  1996 rehabilitation.
Part C. I of the Project to be undertaken
during the first year of Project
l _________                      __________    __________  Implementation.
3.07 (c)      13        C      06/30/92    08/21/92   SCEPs with participation of parents'     Plans received by the Bank.
associations and technical assistance
from CAPFCE, to carry out the
preventive maintenance program in
acordance with plans prepared by each
of the SCEPs. SCEPs that have not
presented Preventive Maintenance Plans
by the Effectiveness Date shall present
their plans to the Bank.
3.07 (d)      13        C                              All civil works for public primary school  Complied.
facilities in the Project States (including
those carried out by PNS) to be
monitores by SEP.
3.08      . . 13       C                              SCEPs to provide teacher incentives     Complied.
under the supervision of DGPRL and in
accordance with SEPs July 1991
Guidelines pertaining thereto.



31
3.09       13        C                           SCEPS to provide work incentives for    Complied.
Supervisors under the supervision of
DGPRL and in accordance with SEP's
July 1991 Guidelines pertaining thereto.
3.10       13        C                           SEP to use warehouse constructed under  Complied.
the Project in a manner consistent with
the inventory system referred to in
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule I to the
Loan Agreement.
3.11 (i)     13       C      12/30/91   05/31/93   Carrying out an informal needs study  As a result of the decentralized
according to terms of reference already    policy, the mission and the
agreed upon with the Bank, and      government decided to cancel the
furnishing results to the Bank.     implementation of this
subcomponent. (October 1995).
3.11 (ii)    13       C                           Carrying out an information system   As a result of the decentralization
action plan already agreed with the  policy, the mission and the
Bank.                               government decided to cancel the
implementation of this
subcomponent
3.11 (iii)   13        C     02/29/92   05/31/93   Modifying such plan so as to take into    As a result of the decentralization
account the results of the information  policy, the mission and the
needs study.                        government decided to cancel the
implementation of this
subcomponent. (October 1995).
3.16 (b)     13       C      09/30/92             PCU and SPCU operating directors to  On Sept. 10 of each year.
prepare and submit to the Bank annual
implementation progress reports based
on the indicators and criteria referred to
in Section 3.16 (a) above.
3.16 (c)     13       C      11/30/92             SEP, the SCEPs, SHCP, SPP and        On November of each year.
NAFIN to participate in annual Project
Implementation reviews to be held in
conjunction with the Bank and prepare
an annual plan of action for the
following twelve months.
3.16 (d)     13       C                           Annual plan of action to include: (i) list   Complied.
all civil works for public primary
education facilities carried out in the
Project States by SEP and PNS during
the preceding twelve months, and to be
carried out through SEP and PNS during
the following including, if necessary,
adjustments in the amount and type of
civil works to be carried out under the
Project; (ii) technical plans for all
rehabilitation works under the Project
for the upcoming twelve months; (iii)
evidence that land for new facilities to
be constructed under the Project during
upcoming twelve months has been
purchased by or donated to SEP and that
such facilities will be adequately staffed;
and (iv) list the schools for which
teacher work, incentives will be paid
during upcoming twelve moths.



32
3.17 (a)     13        C      09/30/94              Mid-term review to be carried out by  Mid-term review took place with
SEP with the assistance of consultants    September 1994 Mission.
and results presented to the Bank; such
lmid-term review to assess initial Project
impact with regard to meeting Project
objectives and conforming to SEP
policies.
3.17 (b)     13        C      11/30/94              SEP to prepare and initiative carrying  Complied.
________  ______     ________    out action
3.18        13       C      02/29/92   02/29/92   SEP to enter into agreements with     The covenant is no longer
Project States of Chiapas and Guerrero    applicable since there is a new
regarding state public primary schools    decentralization agreement.
(as opposed to Federal) for: distribution
of Educational Materials received from
SEP; adequate supervision of
performance of teachers supervisors and
principals to obtain training under the
Project; provision of information for
annual and mid-term reviews referred to
in Sections 3.16 and 3.17 of this
Agreement; and non-interference with
Guarantor's compliance with its
obligations under this Agreement.                                   l
3.19        13       C                            If, during the course of Project      N/A applicable (see 318).
Implementation state (as opposed to
Federal) public primary schools are
established in the Project States of
Oaxaca and Hidalgo, SEO to enter into
agreements identical to those described
in Section 3.18 above.                                              l
4.01 (a)     01        C                            Guarantor to maintain records and     Complied.
separate accounts for operations,
resources and expenditures of SEP
(including PCU and SPCUs) in
connection with the execution of the
Project.__
4.01 (b)(i)   01        C                            Guarantor to (i) have records and     See comments to Section 4.01 (b)
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a)    of Loan Agreement.
above for each Fiscal Year audited by
independent and qualified auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months
after the end of such year, these audit
reports; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
other information regarding such records
and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Bank reasonable requests.



33
4.01 (c)     01        C                            With respect to withdrawals from Loan    Complied.
Account made on the basis of SOEs
Guarantor to: (i) maintain records and
separate accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain all records until
one year after Bank has received the
audit report; (iii) enable Bank's
representatives to examine such record;
and (iv) ensure that such records and
separate accounts are included in annual
audits, with separate opinion regarding
their reliability.                                                  l
4.01 (d)     01        C                            With respect to withdrawals from      Complied.
Special Account, Guarantor to provide
Borrower with information required to
comply with Borrower's obligations
under Section 4.01 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.                                                          l
Loan
3.01, 6.01    03        C      01/14/92              Borrower and Guarantor to enter into  Complied.
(c), 6.02                                           contractual arrangements providing for
transfer of funds. Such arrangements to
be furnished to the Bank.                                           l
4.01 (a)     01        C                            Borrower to maintain records and      Complied.
separate accounts for the Special
Account
4.01 (b)     01        C                            Borrower to: (i) have records and     (i) Audit for 1995 was completed
accounts referred to above for each  by SECODAM and the external
Fiscal Year audited by independent and   auditors. (ii) NAFIN send it to
qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the  the Bank on June 30 of each
Bank as soon as available, but not later    year.
than six months after the end of such
year, the audit report under (i) above;
(iii) furnish to the Bank each month
certified statements of the Special
Account; and (iv) furnish to the Bank
other reasonable requested information
concerning records and accounts in
Section 4.01 (a) above.
4.01 (c)     01        C                            With respect to withdrawals from Loan    Complied.
Account made on the basis of SOEs,
Borrower to provide information
required to comply with Section 4.01
(cv) of Guarantee Agreement.
6.01 (a)     10        C      01/14/92              At least two of the SCEPs to present  Plans presented for all fours
Preventive Maintenance Plans to the  states.
Bank (see Guar. Agr. 3.07 (c)).
6.01 (b)     10        C      01/14/92              PCU and SPCUS to be staffed as        Complied.
indicated in Sections 3.14 and 3.15 of
Guarantee Agreement.
Sch. 1,      03       C                            Bank to be furnished with a detailed  Condition of disbursements for
para. 3 (b)                                          proposal for pilot "Radio-Television de   part B.5 (d) of the project. Radio
Oaxaca" program in the Project State of   and TV programs are already
Oaxaca.                              being transmitted. Evaluation
has been contracted.



34
|Sch. 1,    13      C              08/21/92  SEP to prepare an inventory control  Complied.
para 3 (c)                                  systean regarding items to be stored in
_                     ~~~~~~~~~warchouses.l
Status:
C     - Complied with
CD   - Compliance after Delay
NC   - Not Complied With
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP   - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class:
I Accounts/audit
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of Project Funds
4 Counterpart Funding
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 Environmental Covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 Other



35
APPENDIXES



36                            APPENDIX A-
AYUDA MEMNIORIA
CIERRE DEL PROYECTO DE EDUCACION PRIMARIA (PARE)
PRRESTAMO 3704-MFE
MISI6N DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
Octubre 28- Noviembre 7, 1997
La misi6n de cierre del proyecto 3407-ME tuvo lugar entre el 28 de octubre y el 7
de noviembre de 1997. La misi6n estuvo compuesta por Anna Sant' Anna y Claudia
Macias (Departamento de Mexico) y Nydia Maraviglia (consultora, LCSHD,
Washington). La misi6n tuvo reuniones en NAFIN y CONAFE con funcionarios de estas
dos instituciones, y de las Secretarias de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) y de
Educaci6n (SEP). Tarnbien visit6 los estados de Hidalgo y Oaxaca entrevistindose,
respectivamente, con el Secretario Estatal de Educaci6n y el Director General del
Instituto de Educaci6n, asi como con funcionarios tecnicos y gerenciales de ambas
entidades y con funcionarios de prograrmas compensatorios. La misi6n agradece a las
autoridades y funcionarios del Gobierno Federal y de los estados visitados por la
hospitalidad y cooperaci6n brindadas durante su perrnanencia en el pais.
El proyecto fue financiado con un prestamo del Banco MIundial originalmente
establecido en US$250 millones, aprobado por la Junta de Directores el 26 de septiembre
de 1991, que se hizo efectivo el  I de diciembre de 1991. En julio de 1995, a solicitud
del Prestatario se cancelaron USS37.4 millones debido a una disminuci6n de los costos
del proyecto en raz6n de ladevaluaci6n del peso. El desembolso final tuvo lugar el 30 de
jtnio de 1997 y en ese momento se cancelaron USS17.4 millones adicionales, quedando
el total del prestamo reducido a S195.2 millones. La cancelaci6n final se debi6 en parte a
la devaluaci6n del peso, aunque tambien, en gran medida, a un desembolso mucho menor
para gastos incrementales debido a demoras v consiguientes economias en la utilizaci6n
de este rubro y la aplicaci6n de tasas de desembolso decrecientes hacia los uiltimos afios
del proyecto.
La contribucion del Gobiemo Federal. que no incluye la contribuci6n directa de
los estados participantes, fue de USS70.2 millones, dando un costO total del proyecto de
US$265.4 millones. Asi, excluyendo la contribuci6n de los estados, el Gobierno
contribuy6 un 26.5% al financiamiento del proyecto (muy cercano al estimado de 29% al
momento de la evaluaci6n inicial, en la cual no se habia estimado por anticipado el nivel
de contribuciones de los estados). Sin embargo, es importante que CONAFE obtenga
informacion sobre el monto de contribuciones de los estados participantes, y envie esta
informaci6n al Banco antes del 30 de noviembre de 1997, para poder presentar la
inversi6n final en el informe del Banco sobre el cierre de este prestamo.
SEP/CONAFE entreg6 a la misi6n un informe de cierre titulado Programa para
abatir el rezago educativo (PARE), Informe de conclusi6n (1992-1996)" y una Sintesis
Ejecutiva. Ambos informes tienen un valioso contenido sobre la ejecuci6n del proyecto y
los resultados, con cuadros y graficos de ex:celente calidad sustantiva y grafica, que



37
ayudan a interpretar los resultados. Ademas la misi6n recibi6 informes financieros
completo-s sobre la ejecuci6n del prestamo y las contribuciones nacionales e informes
suplementarios sobre infraestructura. Los Estados de Hidalgo y Oaxaca tambien hicieron
presentaciones orales detalladas de la marcha del proyecto PARE hasta su cierre y
entregaron informes explicativos completos sobre el mismo tema.  Las uinicas
inforrnaciones pendientes son, como se senal6 en el parrafo anterior, los montos que
contribuyeron los estados.
La misi6n comprobo que la implementaci6n de este proyecto dio cormo resultado
un progreso tangible en extender la educacion primaria a lugares apartados dentro de los
estados incluidos en el proyecto (Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo y Oaxaca) donde habita el
40% de la poblaci6n indigena del pais. Se puede tambien concluir que los componentes
dirigidos al mejoramiento de la calidad de la ensefianza estuvieron orientados en la
direcci6n correcta. Sin embargo, los datos disponibles indican tendencias estacionarias
en la eficiencia terminal, aunque los indices de deserci6n escolar muestran tendencias
decrecientes, que son mas marcadas en Aidalgo y Oaxaca. Estos resultados apuntan a la
necesidad de continuar haciendo hincapie en la participaci6n de los padres de familia en
las actividades escolares, asi como en el mejoramiento de la calidad y relevancia de los
contenidos educativos, para lograr una efectiva utilizaci6n de la extensa infraestructura
fisica y humana que el proyecto ha logrado forrnar en los cinco anos de ejecucion.
Tambien es importante destacar la necesidad de poner un mayor enfasis en  la
sistematizaci6n y analisis de los efectos de la ensefianza sobre el grado de conocimientos
de los alumnos de distintos niveles, va que en la actualidad no se dispone de datos
facilmente utilizables sobre dichos indicadores.
Un asunto que requeriria consideraci6n especial es la continuaci6n de la parte
creativa o de produccion del programa de teleprimaria en Oaxaca, que forrna parte del
sub-componente de apoyos audiovisuales de este proyecto. Actualmente el CONAFE
esta aplicando los resultados de este sub-componente en las 31 Entidades Federativas,
habiendose distribuido paquetes de video-prograrnas para su difusi6n a traves de
programas locales de educaci6n a distancia y de apoyo a la capacitaci6n de docentes. En
vista de la inversifn de recursos ya hecha en esta prueba piloto y la experiencia
acumulada durante su realizaci6n, seria conveniente prestar una cuidadosa atenci6n a la
forma que tomaran las actividades de producci6n de programas similares en el futuro, las
posibles modificaciones que se requeriran, asi como su expansi6n y fuentes de
financiamiento.  Existe una evaluaci6n extema (hecha por la Universidad de las
Americas), asi como evaluaciones intemas, que deberian examinarse para la toma de
decisiones a este respecto.
El informe de cierre a ser preparado por el Banco (denominado Implementation
Completion Report - ICR) utilizara la valiosa inforrnaci6n proporcionada a la misi6n y
contendra detalles sobre los procesos de implementaci6n, resultados y lecciones
aprendidas. que se espera puedan ser aprovechados en la implementaci6n del PAR.EB y
en la preparacion del proximo proyecto de educaci6n a ser considerado para un posible
financiamiento por el Banco. El ICR debera ser presentado a la Junta de Directores antes



38
del 31 de diciembre de 1997. Antes de su distribuci6n, el mismo se enviara al Prestatario
para su revisi6n y los comentarios que se consideren apropiados. En el Anexo se presenta
una lista de observaciones en base a las cuales se podran iextraer varias lecciones
aprendidas a traves de la implementaci6n de este proyecto.
Mexico/Washington, 12 de noviembre de 1997



39
Anexo
OBSERVACIONES Y LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
PRIESTAMO 3407 - EDUCACION PRIMvIARIA
Se presentan a continuaci6n algunas observaciones que pueden servir como base
para la secci6n del informe sobre lecciones aprendidas:
1) Calidad: En este proyecto se atcanzaron ampliamente las metas cuantitativas para
cubrir con servicios de educaci6n primaria las zonas mas desprotegidas; en adelante
seria importante mantener y aun acrecentar esfuerzos para lograr mejoras en la calidad
de la ensefnanza, muy particularmente a nivel de las escuelas multigrado, que
constituyen un 60% de las escuelas del pais y una proporcion mucho mayor en los
estados que fueron atendidos por el PARE.
2) Otro aspecto de Calidad: El proyecto dio pasos importantes, por medio de la
capacitaci6n de docentes y directivos, para utilizar ampliamente los libros de texto y
materiales de apoyo del maestro, aunque es necesario reforzar la capacitaci6n para la
utilizaci6n del material didactico distribuido por el propio CONAFE. A fin de medir
cada vez con mayor precisi6n los efectos de mejoras en el aula, es importante que se
continuie con el apoyo que se les ha ofrecido a las Secretarias de Educaci6n Estatales
en la consolidaci6n de las areas de evaluaci6n del aprendizaje, haciendo un esfuerzo
para que dicha medici6n evalne las competencias educativas basicas, mas que el
dominio de informacion.
3) Funci6n del supervisor:  A partir de 1996 se ha impulsado, como una linea
estrategica, la participaci6n de los equipos de supervisi6n eri las tareas de asesorfa y
capacitacion, por medio de las consejos tecnicos consultivos de zona, con la
participaci6n de docentes y directivos; sin embargo esta labor no ha logrado
implementarse plenarnente; por lo tanto, serfi necesario redoblar esfuerzos para
regularizar esta estrategia, agregando a la gesti6n administrativa que ya ejerce el
supervisor, el apoyo tecnico y academico al maestro; se deberia aprovechar la
experiencia lograda hasta el momento en este sentido por CONAFE.
4) Adecuar la oferta a las necesidades de la demanda: En base a los criterios de
pertinencia y flexibilidad, se deberan orientar los contenidos y la modalidad operativa
del programa en su totalidad y de cada uno de sus componentes, a satisfacer las
necesidades de los diferentes destinatarios, i.e., las Secretarias de Educaci6n Estatales,
los maestros, los alumnos y los padres de familia.
5) Necesidad de continuar los esfiuerzos iniciados por este proyecto sobre coordinaci6n
e integraci6n, a nivel local, de los Programas Compensatorios con los Programas
Regulares, por cuanto los primeros son programas transitorios, ya que solo se



40
mantendran en vigencia tan solo hasta tanto se cierren las brechas que distinguen el
rezago educativo.
6) Participaci6n social:  Este proyecto demostr6 la impohtancia y los beneficios
alcanzados con la incorporaci6n de los padres de familia en las actividades de la
escuela a traves de su capacitaci6n y dotaci6n de fondos (5,000 pesos) para mejorar
las escuelas y para actividades justificables y pertinentes a la creaci6n de un mejor
entorno escolar. El punto 9 se refiere tambien a otras formas de participacion de
padres de familia en el funcionamiento de la escuela. La continuaci6n de estas
actividades requerira actualizaciones peri6dicas para que no decaiga papel interactivo
entre los padres, la escuela y el maestro.
7) Infraestructura: Su implementaci6n a travis de una agencia central - CAFCE - con
largos afios de experiencia en construccion de obras publicas de mediana y gran
envergadura en zonas urbanas, pero con poca flexibilidad para implementar
programas de construcci6n de obra's pequenas en zonas rurales de dificil acceso,
present6 muchos problemas (abandono de obra, muebles inapropiados, costos
in.necesariamente altos, etc.) y demostr6 la necesidad de cambiar el enfoque. A partir
del tercer anio se tuvo exito en ejecutar favorablemente y bajar los costos de
construcci6n, mediante la participaci6n comunitaria con mano de obra remunerada
pero de menor costo, adquiriendo y utilizando materiales de la regi6n y efectuando la
supervisi6n de obra a nivel local.
8) Adquisiciones: Las demoras al inicio del proyecto se pueden atribuir principalmente
al esquema rigido y centralizado bajo el cual operaba el programa, asi como a la falta
de capacitacion del personal encargado de esas tareas; otro factor que contribuy6 a las
demoras flue el elevado numero de cambios de personal durante la implementaci6n.
En futuros proyectos deberia prestarse una mayor atenci6n a los aspectos de
preparaci6n del personal que participara en su implementaci6n. Si bien ciertos
cambios de personal pueden ser inevitables, los estados serian responsables de
asegurar una transici6n adecuada, dando informaci6n y capacitaci6n al nuevo
personal. A partir de 1996 se mejor6 el proceso, con la descentralizaci6n de las
adquisiciones de bienes y servicios a nivel regional y estatal Este esquema debera
continuarse y perfeccionarse.  Para estos fines, CONAFE esta revisando los
complicados pasos que se requieren para completar una licitaci6n o seleccionar y
contratar una asistencia tecnica con financiamiento de un prestamo internacional y
tratara, con NAFIN y con el Banco la posibilidad de simplificar estos procesos.
9) Incentivos a los maestros que trabajan en escuelas de dificil acceso: Aunque en un
comienzo hubo confusi6n entre los maestros sobre el objetivo y elegibilidad de este
instrumento, estos problemas, en su mayoria, se subsanaron con la asignaci6n de las
asociaciones de padres de familia como el ente responsable de otorgar el visto bueno
para que el maestro reciba el incentivo, y la capacitaci6n de padres, maestros y
supervisores sobre el concepto del incentivo.  Pero es necesario un cuidadoso
-:            seguimiento de este instrumento de arraigo del maestro por parte de las autoridades



41
estatales de educaci6n y los supervisores, para que no se convierta en un proceso
rutinario y se diluyan los buenos efectos de esta modalidad. En el futuro puede ser iutil
considerar otras variantes de este incentivo para maestros que hayan tenido un
desempenlo excepcional.
10) Estudios: Las evaluaciones, tanto la cuantitativa, como la cualitativa. respondieron
s6lo parcialmente a la necesidad de conocer el impacto resultante del proyecto. Dicha
limitaci6n se origino, en gran medida, porque los terminos de referencia establecidos
en el SAR fueron muy generales y este problema no se subsan6 al elaborar los
terminos de referencia para contratar el estudio, que debieron ser mas especificos e
indicar claramente el producto esperado de esos estudios.  Esto impidi6 un
seguimiento y control adecuado por parte de la agencia contratante. Tambien, debido
a que el enfoque de programas compensatorios era relativarnente nuevo en el pais. no
habia suficiente experiencia dentro de los grupos o instituciones consultaras
especialistas en evaluaci6n educativa. No obstante, y a pesar que los estudios
Ilegaron a conclusiones poco claras' los resultados aprovechables se usaron para la
reorientaci6n tecnica y operativa del proyecto a partir de 1996. Por otra parte, la
evaluaci6n del programa piloto de teleprimaria ofreci6 hallazgos uitiles para los
programas compensatorios en general y para desarrollar material audiovisual en
particular Puede concluirse que, tal como se esta haciendo a partir de 1996 en
CONAFE, cuando se incluyan estudios e investigaciones en los proyectos, es
deseable que tanto las guias generales de dichos estudios, como los terminos de
referencia detallados, a incluir en las invitaciones a concurso, sean preparados por
expertos en los temas a tratar. Asimismo, durante la preparaci6n de los estudios
debera hacerse un seguimiento profesional que permita exigir un producto final
apropiado.
11) Los arreglos institucionalespara implementar un proyecto descentralizado deben
evitar la creaci6n de grandes estructuras administrativas y tecnicas paralelas a los
sistemas estatales regulares. Si bien se necesitan generalmente recursos humanos y
administrativos adicionales, se debe tener en mente desde un principio la forma en
que se hara la integraci6n ordenada del ente paralelo hacia el final del proyecto, en tal
formna que contribuya al crecimiento institucional del sistema regular. En el caso de
este proyecto, si bien al inicio hubo ciertos paralelismos, hacia fines de 1995 se
comenz6, en la mayoria de los estados, un proceso de reordenamiento del personal de
PARE dentro de los sistemas educativos estatales regulares.
12) Lentitud de los procesos de licitaci6n, y de selecci6n y contrataci6n de
consultores para asistencia tecnica: Este problema se esta actualmente estudiando
en CONAFE y se trataran soluciones alternativas con la misi6n de preparaci6n del
propuesto nuevo proyecto de educaci6n. El punto 10 se refiere a los problemas que se
confrontaron con la definici6n y ejecuci6n de los estudios de evaluaci6n de impacto.
La experiencia demuestra que es mas efectivo usar expertos para definir y supervisar
estudios de mayor envergadura y costo. Todavia se necesitan simplificar los tramites
necesarios para conseguir la no objeci6n del Banco a traves de NAFIN. Un segundo



42
tema relacionado con adquisiciones es la importancia de determninar desde un
principio los tipos de licitaci6n que se deberan aplicar a distintos paquetes. En
aquellos casos en los cuales no se puede esperar que haya interes entre firmas
extranjeras por presentarse a una licitaci6n, debido a la naturaleza de las obras
(construcciones de establecimientos pequenios en localidades aisladas), o adquisici6n
de materiales o muebles sencillos, es aconsejable no embarcar al organismo ejecutor
en complicadas licitaciones de caricter intemacional.
13) Sistema de Informaci6n:  El proyecto enfrent6 dificultades en llevar a cabo este
sub-componente, en parte debido a la descentralizaci6n, pero tarnbi6n desde el punto
de vista tecnico, ya que no se consider6 un enfoque de integralidad de los sistemas
existentes, ni un esquema metodol6gico apropiado. En parte como resultado de esta
experiencia, CONAFE ha propuesto un plan de desarrollo integral, en el cual se
consideran los recursos humanos, tecnicos y rnetodol6gicos necesarios para la
operaci6n del sistema de infornmaci6n a nivel central y estatal. Este enfoque tiene
como principal objetivo dar seguimiento y evaluar el rendimiento de los programas de
CONAFE. Dado el alto costo que implican estos sistemas de inforimatica y los
constantes avances en el campo tecnol6gico, el Banco considera que se justifica cierta
intransigencia en tratar de buscar lo mejor en materia de consultores y equipo.
Cuando se trata de establecer sistemas de informaci6n modernos y confiables, las
soluciones incompletas, generalmente Ilevan a un desperdicio de los recursos y a la
necesidad de constantemente "empezar de nuevo".



43
APPENDIX B
GOVERNMENT EVALUATION REPORT AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES



44
APPENDIX C
GOVERNMENT'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
Consojo Nacionil do Fomento Educalivo
I ld, I 1, i*.W., W.C  IG C.1P. 0050O i 0  , G .r. let&. 00o.s6.07 I J7
Mfxicu, ID.F., 19 de diciembre de 1997.
UPClDGia71/97.
LIC. JUAN MANUEL IZQUIERDO SOSA                                   SCANNED FiLE COPY
Accenmionfl4.     Boxi No.
GERENTE DE FINANCIAMIENTOS                                'F`PN   OatelL w  '7 LO#
MULTILATERALES DE NACIONAL                                Acin
FiNAN CIERA                                               FIE(Cai4P mmaor U) LdCs (MM ESW Cwag Ad Prmc
PRESENTE                                                                           3W
tn atenci6n a las instrucciones del l.ic. Edmundc) Salas Garza, Director General
del Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo y a siL atento comunicado No. BBL-
794 de fecha 6 de diciembre del presente aio. rne permito comunicarle que este
Organismo no tiene comnentarios respecto al contenido del informe final del cierre
del Programa para Abatirnel Rezago lLducativo l'restamo 3407-ME, fechado el 5
dc, diciembre del presente aho.
I o anterior con objeto de proseguir con los trsimitos correspondientes previstos en
oc1 protocoio de cierre del   stamo de referencia  on el Banco Mundial.
Sin otro particular, Ip mito agradocer a u5scd sU reconocida participacio, y
gran labor instituci     edctivo quo concluye.
ATENTAME  E
LIC. CARLg  MARQUEZ PtREZ
COORDI DOR DE LOS PROGRAMAS
COMP  SATORIOS DEL CONAFE
c.- r  I c  L.nLdmvndo14  pis n;PZ.- Director Gcnom;Il c 1 t;C. NAIt.
I ic ' molo I Iris I oward.. Subdirector dc Oiqnist o&  I:i iniIu.imid ;ales. N;. IFN
,    Anns $;r.: Auiiu- r s-pocialista on Selors Soci!es. I .&pt'r:ltaiaeIta MexiUo. +an mindial.
(:UIT/ 1CL)/JI ;ANcro



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23053
l  r                      ,>~~~~~~)~ So,, lui Poror.                                                tampico
/-                                                   A.;    K,tascolienles  K9t -r:)l >-_-  __ __4uI)                                                                              M    E X  I C O
Jolpo .                   -                                                                                                                                         PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ici >9gosrbtlsglca |5, \i, \n,                                                                                                                        1111171a       | Project States
g   \   Lcoll  |  |  Ij  1.418  s  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<Jw 2 -'-\x \ ( 'ills AIAII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al, lA 
Ri ...s
G00d    oro      1I .                            ~ C'tiiio                            'it~' -111 1.1 1;   |                                                                                   Toll Roads
tdIr            J               ra lnp .|  eR-                                               O 4Z/_t}!* j C) <7   .y/ sOther Main Roads                                                      'N
  Slate Capitals
I~   ~              ) SjnluardClR<--                      o           -   4       Ad                    \(                                                 National Capital
IP<achurca                                                                                 State Boondories                                                                                     20
o Born,,  i  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~International Boundaries                                                                                                                           Cmeh
20'                      -Lry
'U. . 'i                                                                                                                               J. poC elon
fyc to inCu.,novc.                                                                                                                                                                        Cd. del Con..n
S~~~~~~~~)t IURER                                                                                                                                                                                                            --/g I'>-yt  
perro              Colooco l                      /       TABASCO
Ptayo A-,I
..iu.p.n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIno
R.-.                                       ~C~I APAS                                          N
UNITED STATES Of AMERICA                                                                        ape NrviOfol \                                 Tehoantepen
\                               169                                                                                  )                             Salinr Cruz  S. ir  C-
\.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~ ~~Pt.. E-rond(  O>P.chutir<a7 
*X1  (I,-  }  ^.^4lid^=rl=LieonJ:ire.bvIP                               nse                                                                        \          f     /GUATEMALA
Mop arae nondle      . *X 
0         50       tOO         50 KILOMETERS
On,1.e                 ,       mnceCv/2re AA.                    0       25      50      *5    1o0 MILES                                                                                             T.     ica ut
R    eELZE  p.^ ^L    HidAlM
jATE5LA .. '100                                                                                          906 9



