Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3407 ME
                    (Primary Education Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                      Dated October 14, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3407 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS: (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CAPFCE" means the Guarantor's Administrative Committee
for the Federal School Construction Program (Comite Administrador
del Programa Federal de Construccion de Escuelas);
      (b)   "CONACEN" means the Guarantor's Advisory Council for
Teacher Training (Consejo Nacional Consultivo de Educacion Normal);
      (c)   "CONAFE" means the Guarantor's National Council for
Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo), an
entity which administers a system of public primary schools,
maintained by communities in isolated rural areas, which are staffed
by specially trained lower secondary school graduates acting as
instructors;
      (d)   "DGEI" means SEP's General Directorate for Indigenous
Education (Direccion General de Educacion Indigena);
      (e)   "DGEIR" means SEP's General Directorate for Evaluation
(Direccion General de Evaluacion, Incorporacion y Revalidacion);
      (f)   "DGEP" means SEP's General Directorate for Primary
Education (Direccion General de Educacion Primaria);
      (g)   "DGPPP" means SEP's General Directorate for Planning,
Programming and Budget (Direccion General de Planeacion,
Programacion y Presupuesto);
      (h)   "DGPRL" means SEP's General Directorate for Personnel
and Labor Relations (Direccion General de Personal y Relaciones
Laborales);
      (i)   "Educational Materials" means items which directly serve
a pedagogical purpose such as maps, geometric blocks, word games,
laminated posters, transparencies, slide projectors, bilingual
reading primers written in Spanish and seven indigenous languages,
training manuals, distance education materials, and printing of
library books, provided under Part A of the Project or developed
under Part B of the Project;
      (j)   "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower and
the Guarantor, which begins on January 1 and ends on December 31 of
each year;
      (k)   "General Directorates" means DGEI, DGEIR, DGEP, DGPPP
and DGPRL;
Page  3
      (l)   "GTCs" means Grupos Tecnicos a Nivel Central, the
central technical groups described in Section 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
      (m)   "GTEs" means Grupos Tecnicos a Nivel Estatal, the state
technical groups described in Section 3.05 of the Guarantee
Agreement;
      (n)   "INI" means the Guarantor's National Indigenous
Institute (Instituto Nacional Indigenista);
      (o)   "PCU" means Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto a Nivel
Central, the federal Project Coordination Unit referred to in
Section 3.14 of the Guarantee Agreement;
      (p)   "PNS" means the Guarantor's National Solidarity Program
(Programa Nacional de Solidaridad);
      (q)   "Project States" means the states of Chiapas, Guerrero,
Hidalgo and Oaxaca located within the territory of the Guarantor;
      (r)   "Reading Corner Program" means the program (Programa de
Rincones de Lectura), administered by SEP, for distributing library
books to public schools;
      (s)   "SCEPs" means SEP's state delegations (Servicios
Coordinados de Educacion Publica) in the Project States;
      (t)   "SEP" means the Guarantor's Public Education Secretariat
(Secretaria de Educacion Publica), of which the SCEPs are a part;
      (u)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Finance Secretariat
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
      (v)   "SPCUs" means Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto a Nivel
Central, the Project Coordination Units, referred to in Section 3.15
of the Guarantee Agreement, for each of the Project States;
      (w)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (x)   "SPP" means the Guarantor's Programming and Budget
Secretariat (Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto).
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Banco de Mexico on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Page  4
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
            Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
            in respect of such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  5
            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to
the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on the
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual
arrangements.
      Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused to
be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.20 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual
reviews referred to in Section 3.16 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
separate accounts for the Special Account adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                   Year audited, in accordance with generally
                   accepted auditing standards and procedures
                   consistently applied, by independent and
                   qualified auditors;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank each month certified
                   statements of the Special Account; and
           (iv)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts as well as
                   the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any
information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply with the
Guarantor's obligations under Section 4.01 (c) of the Guarantee
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
one of the Project States has failed to perform any of its
obligations under any of the agreements, referred to in Sections
3.18 or 3.19 of the Guarantee Agreement, to which it is a party,
provided, however, that the Bank may, after consultation with the
Page  6
Borrower and the Guarantor, only suspend, in whole or in part, the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for
expenditures incurred by the Project State in question.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall have
continued for 90 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that two of the SCEPs have presented to the Bank the
preventive maintenance plans, referred to in Section 3.07 (c) of the
Guarantee Agreement, for their respective Project States;
      (b)   that the PCU and SPCUs are staffed as indicated in
Sections 3.14 and 3.15 of the Guarantee Agreement; and
      (c)   that the contractual arrangements, referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, have been furnished to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Guarantor and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the
Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date January 14, 1992 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For the Borrower:
            Direccion Internacional
            Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
            Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
            Torre 4, piso 8
Page  7
            01020 Mexico, D.F.
            Mexico
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   NAFIN                     NAFIME 383-1775765
                   Mexico City               Mexico City
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Bangkok, Thailand, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                   NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                   By /s/ Oscar Espinosa Villarreal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               90,000,000        75%
(2) Furniture and             13,500,000        100% of foreign
    equipment (excluding                        expenditures
    vehicles and Educa-                         and 85% of local
    tional Materials)                           expenditures
(3) Vehicles                   4,000,000 
100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(4) Educational               28,500,000        100%
    Materials
(5) Training, studies         41,000,000        100%
    and technical
    assistance
(6) Teacher incentives        24,000,000        100% until with-
                                                drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $10,000,000; then
                                                60% until with-
Page  8
                                                drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $16,000,000; then
                                                40% until with-
                                                drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount equi-
                                                valent to
                                                $22,000,000; and
                                                20% thereafter
(7) Incremental               24,000,000        80% until with-
    costs                                       drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $12,000,000; then
                                                50% until with-
                                                drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $18,000,000; then
                                                25% until with-
                                                drawals under
                                                this Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $22,000,000; and
                                                10% thereafter
(8) Unallocated               25,000,000
         TOTAL               250,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor;
      (c)   the term "teacher incentives" means the work incentives
described in Part D.1 of the Project and in Section 3.08 of the
Guarantee Agreement;
      (d)   the term "incremental costs" means operating costs
consisting of school supplies, pecuniary incentives to school
supervisors to compensate for additional travel and subsistence
costs, and salaries for the teachers and supervisors hired for
purposes of Part D.8 of the Project, and maintenance costs with
regard to the schools and classrooms rehabilitated, repaired,
reinforced or constructed under Parts C.1 through C.3 of the
Project, the warehouses and offices constructed under Parts D.2 and
D.3 of the Project, and the vehicles, furniture and equipment
procured under the Project; and
      (e)   the term "training" includes, inter alia, the per diems
referred to in Part B.3 of the Project and compensation for course
Page  9
instructors for their work performed under Part B of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$6,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (7) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
March 22, 1991; (b) Educational Materials under Part B (5) (d) of
the Project, until the Bank has been furnished with a detailed
proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, for the program to be carried
out under such Part B (5) (d), including the implementation schedule
therefor; and (c) construction of warehouses under Part D.3 of the
Project until the Guarantor, SEP, prepares an inventory control
system, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding items to be stored in
such warehouses.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and
efficiency of public (federal and state) primary education in the
Project States.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Educational Materials
1.    Provision to each public rural primary school in the Project
States of an Educational Material package containing items such as
maps, laminated posters and a slide projector.
2.    Provision to each class in each public rural primary school in
the Project States of an Educational Material package containing
items such as dictionaries, rulers and math games.
3.    Provision to public primary schools in the Project States of
bookcases, library cards, classroom library operation training
cassettes and approximately 2.5 million library books, distributed
in sets of 152 library books for every such school that participates
in the Reading Corner Program.
4.    Design and production of approximately 1,100,000 bilingual
reading primers and accompanying workbooks and teacher guides
written in Spanish and in the seven most prevalent indigenous
languages spoken in the Project States, and provision of these items
to those indigenous primary schools in the Project States that serve
the corresponding ethnic groups.
Part B:     Teacher Training
1.    Design, preparation, supervision, evaluation and provision of:
(a) one or two week long intensive training sessions, during the
summer, in teaching and administrative techniques to: (i) general
primary school teachers, principals and supervisors working in
public primary schools in rural and urban areas in the Project
States; and (ii) primary school indigenous teachers, principal and
supervisors who provide bilingual instruction in the Project State;
and (b) ten-week long intensive training sessions, during the
summer, and monthly training sessions, during the school year, in
teaching and administrative techniques to CONAFE community
instructors working in extremely isolated and poor areas in the
Project States.
2.    Design, preparation, supervision, evaluation and provision of
semester-long training sessions (4 hour workshops twice a month) in
teaching and administrative techniques to general primary school
teachers, principals and supervisors working in public primary
schools in rural and urban areas in the Project States.
Page  10
3.    Provision of training incentives (per diems based on regular
attendance and promotion points based on performance in the training
courses) to all teachers, principals, supervisors and instructors
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, except CONAFE supervisors
attending training sessions during the summer.
4.    Design, preparation, supervision, evaluation and provision of
training courses, aimed at improving the quality of teacher
training, to approximately 860 professors in the following teacher
training institutions in the Project States: Escuelas Normales
(teacher colleges), Centros de Actualizacion del Magisterio (in-
service teacher training centers) and branches of the Universidad
Pedagogica Nacional (National Pedagogic University).
5.    Development and application, for purposes of supplementing the
training received and facilities used by public primary school
teachers in the Project States, of the following distance education
mechanisms: (a) video-cassette training programs; (b) audio-cassette
training programs; (c) training programs broadcast by radio,
including broadcasts in seven indigenous languages; (d) educational
programs broadcast by Radio-Television de Oaxaca to primary schools
on a pilot basis in the Project State of Oaxaca; and (e) radio
broadcasts to encourage family and community participation in
school-related activities.
6.    Refurbishment of 16 existing teacher training centers operated
by DGEI.
Part C:     Educational Infrastructure
1.    Rehabilitation (rezago) of approximately 3,870 public primary
school classrooms and approximately 2,800 public primary school
support facilities in schools in the Project States which have: (i)
at least 25 students per classroom and no more than 5 classrooms,
when operating on a one-shift system; or (ii) at least 45 students
per classroom and at least 6 classrooms, when operating on a double-
shift system.
2.    Structural reinforcement of approximately 689 public primary
school buildings and support facilities in seismically active areas
and repair of approximately 695 public primary school buildings, all
in the Project States.
3.    Construction and equipping of approximately 1,250 new public
primary school classrooms and 640 public primary school support
facilities in schools in the Project States which have: (i) at least
25 students per classroom and no more than 5 classrooms, when
operating on a one-shift system; or (ii) at least 45 students per
classroom and at least 6 classrooms, when operating on a double-
shift system.
4.    Preventive maintenance of public primary school buildings and
support facilities (and the furniture and equipment in such
buildings and facilities) in the Project States.
Part D:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Provision of work incentives, approximately equal to and in
addition to their base salary, to general and indigenous public
primary school teachers working in extremely poor and isolated rural
areas in the Project States so as to promote improvement in their
professional performance.
2.    Provision of work incentives, equipment and means of
transportation (including all-terrain four wheel drive vehicles),
and construction of supervisor offices attached to existing public
primary schools, to support the activities, and promote improvement
in the professional performance, of approximately 1,200 public
primary school supervisors working in rural and indigenous areas of
the Project States.
Page  11
3.    Construction, equipping and use of approximately 43
Educational Material and school equipment warehouses throughout the
Project States, and provision of approximately 43 3.5 ton trucks to
deliver such materials and equipment from the warehouses to
supervisors' offices near public primary schools in the Project
States, thus improving SEP's support services delivery capacity.
4.    Provision of short-term technical assistance and training for
technical, managerial and administrative staff of, and provision of
office furniture, equipment, computers and vehicles to, SEP, PCU and
the SPCUs so as to improve the Project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation capabilities of these entities.
5.    Improvement of SEP's information gathering and processing
system and of the distribution to local levels of the outputs of
such system.
6.    Establishment and operation of a public primary school
standardized student achievement testing system throughout the
Project States.
7.    Carrying out of operational research and studies to: (a)
evaluate the impact of the Project on students' learning achievement
and on the probabilities that they might repeat grades or drop out
of school, as well as on the cost effectiveness of each Project
component; (b) analyze the rates of utilization and acceptance by
teachers, students and communities in general of bilingual reading
primers, as well as the impact of such primers on student
achievement; (c) analyze the impact of work incentives provided
under the Project on teacher turnover, attendance and performance,
as well as the usefulness of community participation in decision-
making regarding the distribution of such work incentives; (d)
evaluate the impact of the pilot television broadcast component
described in Part B.5 (d) of the Project; and (e) evaluate the
impact of the Project on behavioral and psychological traits of the
student population served by the Project.
8.    Provision of new teachers hired to staff the schools under
Part C.3 of the Project and of approximately 100 new supervisors to
work with respect to public primary schools in isolated rural areas
within the Project States.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
      beginning June 1, 1997
      through June 1, 2008                 10,415,000
On December 1, 2008                        10,455,000
Page  12
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Page  13
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to para- graph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  14
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
