Docnut of
T he World Bank
FORK OWKI1AL USE ONLY
*                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Repot N. 7073-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 8, 1988
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as-of February 1988)
Currency Unit   -   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00         -   Rp 1,650
Rp 1 million        US$606
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADC        -   Accountancy Development Center
BAPEPAM    -   Capital Market Executive Agency
BAPPENAS   -   National Development Planning Agency
BPK        -   Supreme Audit Board
BPKP       -   Financial and Development Supervisory Board
CAAD       -   Coordinating Agency for Accountancy Jevelopment
CAPA       -   Confederation of Asian and Pacific Accountants
DGHE       -   MOEC Directorate General of Higher Education
DIKHAS     -   MOEC Directorate of Community Education
IAI        -   Indonesian Institute of Accountants
ICB        -   International Competitive Bidding
IFAC       -   International Federation of Accountants
KKN        -   Regional State Cash Office
KPN        -   Regional State Treasury Office
MOEC       -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF        -   Ministry of Finance
PAN        -   Annual Budget Realization Report
PIU        -   Project Implementation Unit
PKG        -   Pemantapan Kerja Guru (In-service and on-service teacher
training program)
REPELITA   -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89)
SGV        -   Sycip, Gorres, Velayo & Co (Consulting Company)
SMA        -   Upper Secondary General Schools
SMEA       -   Upper Secondary Commercial Schools
SOE        -   Statement of Expenditure
STAN       -   Sekolah Tingi Akuntansi Negara (State School of Government
Accounting)
UGM        -   University of Gadjah Mada
UI         -   University of Indonesia
USU        -   University of North Sumatra



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................... .........*...    iii
I.  ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT:  ISSUES AND STRATEGY ..................          1
Introduction  o.o.o..*9. ..................................              1
Issues* ... ...               ..................................         2
Government Accounting and Auditing ..........................          2
Private-Sector Accounting and Auditing......................           5
Capital Market.  ..................................... 6
Accountancy Manpower Supply and Demand........................         7
Accountancy Education and Training Programs.... ..............         8
Accountancy Development Strategy                .....                   11
Government Strategy............................ *.                ..........*.    11
Bank Strategy,,*.oo*o......................................           13
II.  THE PROJECT ...........9    .  ......                                    15
Project Objectives ........... 9999s999e.........................    15
Project                                 Decito ....................................15
Accounting Practice....9999999999 *.............    16
Accounting                                Edcto ....................................21
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation..................         25
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................                              27
Implementation ............ - ~~~27
Procurement .............................................. 99........9    28
Disbursements ......                    .................................  31
Project Accounts, Audits and Reporting........................          32
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................                             33
Cost Estimates ... .................................                    33
Financing Plan  .......3.......................................    36
V.BNFTS,                                   IS................................... 37
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.....o ..............o.o..          37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
October 1987. Mission members included F. Farner (mission leader), M.
Mertaugh (economist), K. Thomas (financial analyst), C. Escudero (lawyer),
M. Masuda (operations assistant) and R. Osterlund (consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1: Project Expenditures by Procurement Category
Table 3.2: Sumary of Procurement of Services by PIU
Table 4.1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 4.2:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 4.3:  Proposed Financing Plan
CHART
Chart A: Organizational Structure for Project Implementation
ANNEXES
1. Structure for Accounting Development in Higher Education
2. Staff Development Program in Higher Education
3. Composition of 1984 Curriculum for Business and Commercial High
Schools Accountancy Program (Finance Cluster)
4. Breakdown of SMA Enrollment by Stream and by Public/Private
Schools
5. Outline of Accounting Study Program, SMA
6. Project Outcome Indicators
7. Staff Development Program
A:   Sutimmary of Local Staff Development/Training Activities,
by Component and Year
B:   Summary of Overseas Fellowship/Training Program, by Component
and Year
8. Technical Assistance Program:
Summary of Local and Foreign Specialist Services, by
Component and Year
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Implementation Schedule
A:   Implementation Schedule, Accounting Practice Subproject
B:   Implementation Schedule, Accounting Education Subproject
C:   Implementation Schedule, Accounting Planning, Monitoring
and Evaiuation Subproject
11. Project Costs by Category of Expenditure and Component
12. Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
Map No.     IBRD 20514



- iii -
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$113 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:     The objectives of the project are to:  (a) assist the
Government improve accounting practices in both the public
a.d private sectors; and (b) support the Government's pro-
gram to improve the quality of accounting education and
prepare for future demand for accountancy manpower. The
proposed project would finance specialist services, train-
ing, equipment, books, development of instructional mate-
rials and operating costs. Specifically, support would be
given to: (i) the first phase of implementation of a mod-
ernized government accounting system which has been
designed and tested under previous projects; (ii) improving
government auditing services; (iii) raising the quality of
accounting staff; (iv) increasing the scope and efficiency
of the capital market; (v) strengthening the role of the
professional association of accountants and introducing a
series of accounting standards; (vi) improving the quality
and management of accounting education in the secondary,
tertiary and nonformal subsectors; and (vii) expanding
accountancy training capacity in higher education and non-
formal education. Significant long-term benefits are
expected in the form of improved public stewardship, more
effective control over national revenue and expenditure,
improved-auditing, capital market expansion and a strength-
ened accountancy profession.
Risks:             The size and scope of the project and extent of its
coverage inevitably entail risks that some participants
will resist the changes which are to be introduced, and
that overall implementation could suffer from delays in a
few key components. Risks of the first type have been
minimized by the phased design of reform implementation;
risks of the second type have been addressed through the
establishment of adequately staffed implementation units,
and the special supervision and monitoring designed to help
ensure that satisfactory progress is achieved.



- iv -
Estimated Costs:                                      Local    Forei n  Total
…-…-UuS$ million --
Accounting Practice
Covernment accounting                              5.7        7.6    13.3
Government auditing                                7.8        7.9    15.7
Government education and training                 11.4        8.7    20.1
Capital ma-:et                                     1.3        1.9     3.2
Private sector                                     1.7        0.4     2.1
Subproject management                              1.5        2.0     3.5
Subtotal                                    29.4       28.5    57.9
Accounting Education
Higher education                                   8.8       15.6    24.4
Secondary education                               12.5       15.6    28.1
Nonformal education                               14.3        5.7    20.0
Subproject management                              6.9        1.7     8.6
SubtotaL                                    42.5       38.6    81.1
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
CAAD                                               4.3        2.7     7.0
Base Cost (February 1988)                    76.2      69.8   146.0
Physical contingencies                                4.0        4l      8.1
Price contingencies                                   7.8        2.6    10.4
Total Project Cost /a                       88.0       76.5   164.5
Financing Plan:
Government                                           45.9        5.6    51.5
Bank                                                 42.1       70.9   113.0
Total                                       88.0       76.5   164.5
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                   1989      1990    1991   1992   1993       1994
Annual                   4.0       9.0    23.0   31.6   31.4       14.0
Cumulative               4.0      13.0    36.0   67.6   99.0    113.0
Rate of Retarn: Not applicable.
Map No. IBRD 20514
/a     Includen identifiable taxes estimated at US$3 million equivalent.



I. ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT: ISSUES AND STRATEGY
Introduction
1.1       Archaic accounting practices limit the effectiveness and efficiency
of accounting and auditing activities throughout the public and private
sectors in Indonesia. To some extent, this situation reflects the deficien-
cies of inherited accounting conventiono. More fundamentally, it results from
the scarcity of professional and technical staff who are adequately trained in
modern methods of accountancy.
1.2       The most conspicuous problem occurs in the public sector.  Deficien-
cies in government accounting hamper public administration in two key
respects: they compromise public stewardship by limiting the Government's
ability to ensure that public funds are used for their intended purposes; and
they obstruct budget p.Lanning by not providing accurate and timely information
on public resource availability and cost of program options. Improvements in
government accounting practices and parallel efforts in staff training in
Indonesia are urgently needed to close the serious gaps in timeliness and
accuracy of existing government accounts. One indication of the problem is
the long delay--currently two years--between the time that central government
expenditures are made and the time those expenditures are reported to Parlia-
ment. Another is the existence of major and irreconcilable differences
between different data series on the same transactions, resulting from
fragmented accounting systems and from the absence of a uniform chart of
accounts.
1.3       Further deficiencies in government accountancy arise from short-
comings of the budget process, including excessively short-term and fragmented
budget allocations, incomplete coverage of public enterprise transactions, and
blurring of distinctions between capital and revenue items._/ Improvements in
the timeliness, completeness, and accuracy of government accounts would
contribute both to better planning of public expenditures and to improved
implementation of investments and routine government activities.
1.4       The scarcity of competent government accountants and auditors also
limits the scope for improving tax audits as a means of increasing revenues
through better compliance with corporate and personal income and value added
taxes. There is major potential for improved yield under existing tax codes:
Filing ratios are estimated at 55Z for the corporate income tax, 85t f52
personal income taxes, and 39Z for the value added tax on enterprises.-
Planned improvements in government auditing are expected to lead to better tax
1/ For a fuller description of these issues, see Indonesia, Public Invest-
ment in Repelita IV, World Bank Report Number 5849-IND (December 27,
1985 ), paras. 1.39-1.41.
2/ Indonesia, Strategy for Economic Recovery, World Bank Report No.
6694-IND, May 5, 1987.



-2-
compliance, but significant improvements in compliance with corporate income
taxes and value added taxes will also require the introduction of consistent
accounting standards and the enforcement of statutory audits. This in turn
implies an expanded role for the professionrl association of accountants in
development oi accounting standards, certification of accountancv skills, and
provision of auditing services.
1.5       The private sector is also hampered by a shortage of professional
and technical staff with up-to-date skills in accountancy. Management
accounting as a tool of managerial efficiency is virtually nonexistent.
Financial disclosure requirements for private firms are very limited.
1.6       Development of improved and uniform reporting on enterprise perfor-
mance is a prerequisite to the further expansion of the nascent market for
private securities. Under Repelita. IV, the Governnent aims to increase the
share of private savings in total domestic savings. The goal of expanded
private sector savings is more likely to be met if the stock market can be
made to assume a more active role in capital mobilization. Currently, the
shares of only 24 companiZs are listed on the Jakarta stock exchange. As a
prerequisite for improved investor confidence in the private securities
market, appropriate standards for reporting the financial performance of
enterprises need to be developed and put into practice. More generally, a
study of the existing market's operation needs to be carried out with a view
to identifying appropriate changes to invigorate the market as a source of
investment capital.
1.7       This chapter presents issues relating to accountancy development in
five broad areas: (a) government accounting and auditing, (b) private-sector
accounting, (c) capital market, (d) accountancy manpower supply and demand,
and (e) accountancy education. For topical areas (a) and (e), issues are
presented in the context of a description of the structure of implementing and
training entities. Because of the importance of accountancy education to any
resolution of current problems in accountancy, this topic is treated in gre.t-
est detail. The chapter concludes with a description of the Government's
strategy and the Bank's strategy for accountancy development.
Issues
1.8       Government Accounting and Auditing.  An array of accounting and
auditing activities are carried out in the public sector to enable the Govern-
ment to comply with constitutional and legal requirements governing collection
and use of public fumds. All government departments and agencies maintain
accounts of their receipt and use of funds, accounts which are routinely
audited by their internal audit staff under the supervision of each depart-
ment's or agency's Inspector General. External audits of government depart-
ments' and agencies' accounts are carried out by the Supreme Audit Board
(BPK), which reports directly tv, Parliament. BPK emplo-s about 1,700 staff,
including about 1,100 professional audit staff, but of whom only 42 are regis-
tered accountants. A parallel audit agency for the executive branch of Gov-
ernment, the Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP), functions as
the Government's internal auditor. Created initially as a Ministry of Finance
(MOF) Directorate General, BPKP in 1983 was separated from the MOF and made an
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_________



-3-
independent agency reporting directly to the President. BPKP has a mandate to
conduct both financial compliance audits and value-for-money (or cost/benefit)
audits of all government accounts. In practice, BPKP audits consist predomi-
nantly of financial compliance audits, which overlap somewhat with the exter-
nal audits conducted by BPK. In view of the separate lines of respansibility
of the two audit agencies, improved efficiency of government audit operations
will require informal cooperation between the two agencies. BPKP also func-
tions as the external auditor for 220 public enterprises, as well as for Bank-
group projects. BPKP currently employs about 6,000 auditors in its Jakarta
headquarters and its 27 regional offices.
1.9       Central control of government expenditures is vested in the Ministry
of Finance's Directorate General for Budgetary Affairs. The Directorate
General for Budgetary Affairs is responsible for ensuring that cumulative
expenditures of government departments and agencies under each budget category
are consistent with budget allocations in the annual budget law. Through its
Regional State Treasury Offices (KPN), it reviews payment requests, certifies
their conformity with budget allocations, and issues payment authorization.
Payment is made by the MOF's Regional State Cash Offices (KKN), which are
under the Directorate General for Budgetary Affairs.
1.10      The MOF's State Financial Accounting Center is responsible for main-
taining consolidated accounts of all central government expenditures and reve-
nues and for reporting them to Parliament in the form of the Annual Budget
Realization Report (PAN). It does so on the basis of reports generated by
various offices within MOF (in particular, offices within the Directorates
General of Budget and Taxes), and supplemented by analyses provided by
accounting offices in the other ministries.
1.11      In addition to central government ministries and agencies, public-
sector accounting functions are carried out by other le.els of government, and
by public enterprises. There are four levels of government below the central
government: (a) provinces (27 in number), (b) regencies and municipalities
(294), (c) subdistricts (3,500), and (d) villages (58,000). All have their
own budgets, most can levy taxes and charges; and most have their own secre-
tariats, including ac:ounting staff. There is a complex flow of budgetary
transfers within this government hierarchy--typically, from top to bottom.
And there is an equally complex flow of accounting and auditing information in
the reverse direction, principally for the purpose of documenting and justify-
ing budget authorization and paymewnts. At least 400,000 civil seyants are
employed in regional government administration at various levels._ It is
logical to presume that about half this number is engaged in accounting func-
tions of some description, but no firm statistics are available.
3/   Indonesia Management Development, World Bank Report No. 4965-IND (May 20,
1985), p. II, 65.



-4-
1.12      There are over 220 public enterprises at the national level, ad a
much larger number of small enterprises managed by regional governments._
Together, they constitute an important part of the productive sector, account-
ing for about 25% of national fixed capital formation and a roughly similar
share of national value added. The total number of managerias,and supervisory
staff in the public enterprises has been estimated at 96,00C.-_  The number of
clerical staff who perform some accounting functions is undoubtedly much
larger.
1.13      Government accounting practices in Indonesia h&ve changed little
since the 1864 Dutch Financial Administration Act on which they are based.
Although an Indonesian translation of the Act was eventually prepared and
minor changes were introduced when this became the Financial Administration
Act of 1968, government accounting practices have failed to keep pace with the
increasing size and complexity of the Government's financial transactions
since Independence. They have also fallen behind the private sector, where
more modern accounting practices are being adopted. Moreover, government
accounting practices have not developed beyond their historical role of
measuring compliance with mandated budget allocations (a role which is in any
event only incompletely discharged because of system deficiencies and delays).
In particular, they have not evolved to reflect the newer functions of
accounting as an instrument of performance efficiency and effectiveness,
widely adopted elsewhere both in public administration and in the private
sector.
1.14      The most conspicuous deficiencies of existing government accounting
practices are the following:
(a) Single-Entry Accounts. Revenue and expenditure accounts are main-
tained as a simple listing of revenue and expenditure entries,
without the double-entry system of offsetting debits and credits
which is conventional practice in modern accounting systems, and
which allows some verification of the accuracy and completeness of
accounting records, and hence of information derived from them.
(b) Incompatible Reporting Systems. The State Financial Accounting
Center in MOF is responsible for preparing consolidated reports of
all central government revenues and expenditures, and reporting them
to Parliament in the PAN. The reports from which the PAN is
prepared are incompatible in a number of respects: for example,
(i) they ao not share a common chart of accounts; (ii) they do not
all recognize revenue and expenditure items at the same point in the
transaction cycle; and (iii) some items (in particular, tax
revenues) are classified as to type on the basis of analyses
reported by one source applied to totals rLported by another,
without any reconciliation being possible between the two. The PAN
4/   Ibid, p. II, 73.
5/   Ibid, p. II, 79.



-5-
report therefare lacks a consistent basis and contains, at best, a
number of significant approximations.
(c)  Delayed Reporting.  The shortage of qualified accounting staff and
bottlenecks in recording, transmitting and consolidating accounts
lead to unaccaptably long delays in reporting to Parliament on
actual government expenditures. The PAN has typically reached
Parliament two to three years after the close of the fiscal year in
question. These delays seriously compromise the nation's control of
its financial affairs.
(d) Classification of Accounts. Classifications of government accounts
are designed exclusively for monitoring and reporting of actual cen-
tral government revenues and expenditures. They are not designed
for analysis of the cost effectiveness of programs or program compo-
nents, or to provide adequate information to control expenditures on
development projects. Agency accounts are thus not as useful as
they could be to guide the decisions of directors general and other
managers of agency programs and projects.
(e)  Asset Accounting.  Because the budget does not adequately
distinguish capital from revenue items, and because the recording of
fixed asset inventories is not the responsibility of accounting
offices, such inventories cannot be reconciled to the financial
accounts and may accordingly be unreliable in both physical and
value terms.
1.15      Private-Sector Accounting and Auditing   The private sector com-
prises Indonesian public and private companies (including about 300 public
accounting firms), cooperatives, partnership. and sole traders. The quality
of accounting in the private sector varies widely, tending to be better in
those companies which have foreign investors or are listed on the local stock
exchange (which imposes certain reporting standards-para. 1.18); but in
general the development of accounting has fallen behind that of other skills
required in industry and commerce. Accounting systems frequently do not pro-
vide adequate financial control, and few accountants and managers are trained
to produce or use accounting information as a management tool.
1.16      To some extent this situation can be attributed to a general absence
in Indonesian law of regulations of the type which in other countries fre-
quently enforce the maintenance of basic standards of accounting. The
Indonesian Companies' Act and Commercial Code are anachronisms dating back to
colonial times and are silent on accounting matters; there are no statutory
reporting requirements for companies; and there are no audit requirements
(apart from listed companies). The tax law does require companies to file a
profit-and-loss account and balance sheet along with their tax computation,
but the level of compliance is low (para. 1.4).
1.17      A second factor which in other countries frequently contributes to
the maintenance of accounting standards is the presence of a strong profess-
ional body of accountants. In Indonesia, the professional body--the
Indonesian Institute of Accountants (IAI)--is relatively young and has not yet



6
developed the stature to comaand wide respect among businessmen and other
potential users of accounting and auditing services. Of the 5,0O0 registered
accountants in Indonesia, 3,500 are nominally mmbers of IAI but only about
1,000 are paid-up. The Institute's only full-time staff is a small secre-
tariat; all the officers contribute their services part-time. In these
circumstances the Institute's capacity to lead the profession--let alone
promote it in the eyes of the public--is clearly limited. A basic statement
of accounting principles has been issued, a program of continuing professional
education for members has been initiated, and relations are maintained with
international organizations such as the International Federation of Accoun-
tants (IFAC) and the Confederation of Asia and Pacific Accountants (CAPA).
But the IAI lacks a body of detailed accounting and auditing standards to
guide the profession and a code of ethics and disciplinary processes to
regulate it.
1.18      Capital Market.  The Indonesian capital market was established in
its present form in 1977. It operates under the overall authority of the
Minister of Finance and comprises three principal institutions: a Capital
Market Policy Council, a Capital Market Executive Agency and an investment
trust, PT. Danareksa. The Policy Council formulates guidelines and policy
alternatives for the operation of the Capital Market and the management of PT.
Danareksa. The Capital Market Executive Agency (BAPEPAM) controls and manages
the Capital Market in accordance with the policy outlined by the Government,
and is directly responsible to the Minister of Finance. The agency has three
main functions. It evaluates whether companies which sell their ghares
through the Capital Market have met all listing requirements and are sound and
well managed; it operates the stock exchange; and it monitors the progress of
companies which are listed on the stock exchange. Members of the exchange
include state and private banks, financial institutions and brokerage firms.
Listed companies are required to submit to BAPEPAM their financial Fta&teents
(profit and loss, balance sheet, and statement of changes in financial
position) and the audit report of a Registered Accountant thereon, and such
other reports as BAPEPAM may from time to time require. In recent year* the
business of the exchange has been declining. New issues (stocks and bonds)
amounted to only Rp 50 billion in 1986 compared to Rp 144 billion in 1984; the
volume of shares traded fell to 1.4 million from a peak of 5 million in 1982;
and the number of listed companies has remained static at 24 for three years.
1.19      It is clear that measures to revitalize the market are now
required. These measures would have three main objectives:
(a) to broaden investor familiarity with, and interest in, the market;
(b) to offer a wider range of investment vehicles, including possibly
mutual funds and further investment trusts; and
(c) to strengthen confidence in the market by consolidating the associa-
ted legislation (some of which is out of date), and codifying the
regulations concerning company listing, stock issuance, reporting
and related matters and tightening their enforcement.



1.20      Accountancy Manpower Supply and Demand.  There is a large unmet
demand for professional accountants. There are currently only about 5,000
registered accountants working in Indonesia, out of a total nonagricultural
labor force of 25 million. Of these, about 3,000 work for Government (chiefly
as auditors for BPKP, SPK and the larger government enterprises), 1,600 work
for private industry, and 400 work for public accounting iirms. This propor-
tion of professional accountants in the labor force (0.02X) is small by compa-
rison with other countries in the region, and extremely small by comparison
with the industrialized countries. The scarcity of professional accountants
is largely attributable to the limited capacity of existing accountancy pro-
grams (para. 1.27). The large unmet demand for accountants resultg in a
sizable salary premium for registered accountants. A 1982 survey -/ of 680
medium and large enterprises, carried out under the First Polytechnic Project,
reports more than a six-fold earnings differential between registered accoun-
tants and accounting staff with secondary-level training. This differential
is almost twice as large as the average ,,rnings differential between masters-
level graduates and secondary graduates.-
1.21      A large proportion of accountancy manpower at subprofessional levels
also neeas upgrading of technical qualifications. Over a third of the 300,000
bookkeepers and cashiers in the labor force have received no formal schooling
in accountancy. Of the 250,000 managers and proprietors working in industry
and service-sector activities, fewer than 10Z have any training in accounting
techniques.
1.22      Small-scale industries are planned under Repelita IV and Repelita V
to provide an important source of private-sector industrial growth. If these
enterprises are to play the dynamic role envisaged for them, it will be reces-
sary to provide more of their managers with training in basic accountancy
practices. These skills will also improve the capacity of small enterprises
to comply with the recently enacted reporting requirements for corporate and
personal income taxes (para. 1.4).
1.23      Although accountancy is traditionally a male-dominated profession,
women are well represented in accountancy employment in Indonesia. Women cur-
rently comprise 20 to 302 of the members of IAI, the professional association,
and female membership has grown more rapidly than male membership during the
past two years. The proportion of female accountants in many professione.l
jobs has remained at a level somewhat lower than this largely because of self
selection ef job applicants. The proportion of females in the professional
audit staff of the central government audit agencies (152 in BPKP and 191 in
BPK), for example, results from the scarcity of past female applicants, which
6/   Reported in "Final Report:  Study on Demand of Accounting Manpower in
Indonesia," prepared by the Management Institute of the Faculty of
Economics, the University of Indonesia; November, 1983.
7/   As reported in Chapter 2 ("Economic and Financial Analysis") of the 1986
Education and Human Resources Sector Review carried out by the MOEC and
USAID.



in turn reflects the reluctance of qualified women and their families to
accept the travel and other work requirements of the job of state auditor.
There is evidence, however, that the traditional reluctance of wom.  to accept
such jobs is decreasing. A recent article in BPK's staff journal - explores
the reasons which discourage women from taking jobs as state auditors, and
concludes that they are likely to be less of a deterrent to female job appli-
cants in the future. Indeed, the proportion of women aong the state auditors
recruited during the past year is above the average proportion of female state
auditors.
1.24      Available evidence suggests that female participation in accounting
employment at the sub-professional level is higher than at the professional
level. The 1985 intercensal survey reports that 232 of urban employment in
the finance, real estate, insurance and business services sector is female.
Moreover, fully 80% of SMEA enrollments and a similar proportion of graduates
are female. This very high percentage implies that female employment as P.
proportion of total accountancy employment at the sub-professional level is
likely to increase in the future.
1.25      Accountancy Education and Training Programs.  Prior to Independence
in 1945 and to the nationalization of Dutch enterprises in 1957, most account-
ing practices in government and in the private sector followed Dutch account-
ing conventions. Because most senior positions involving accounting were held
by expatriate staff, in-country accountancy training was initially limited to
bookkeeping courses offered in trade and comerce institutions. These lower-
level training programs have evolved into two main categories of accountancy
instruction: the accountancy courses offered in the Hinistry of Education and
Culture's (MOEC) general secondary schools (SMAs) and secondary commercial
schools (SMEAs), and the nonformal courses in accountancy administered by
various goverrment and private agencies, often through short-term, in-service
training.
1.26      Higher-level training in accountancy was introduced in 1952, when
the University of Indonesia's Faculty of Economics began to offer accountancy
courses at the bachelor's level. By the time the first graduates of this new
program graduated (1954), legislation was introduced which enabled masters
degree graduates of accredited university accountancy programs to be certified
by the MOF to practice as professional accountants (Registered Accountants) in
Indonesia. Currently, there are 8 public universities with accredited pro-
grams in accountancy. Graduatea of accountancy programs in private universi-
ties and non-accredited public universities may be certified as Registered
Accountants only by passing a rigorous, two-stage State Accountancy Examina-
tion, jointly administered by MOF and MOEC.
1.27      In order to help meet the growing demand for qualified accountants
in government service, new legislation was enacted in 1961 to require that all
qualified applicants for professional certification as accountants must
8/   "Joys and Tribulations of a Female Auditor of the State Audit Bureau
(BPK)," available in the project file.



-9-
complete at least three years of government service before certification would
be granted. This measure, however, proved insufficient to meet government
needs, and in 1975 the MOEC approved the establishment by the MOF of its own
accountancy training institute, the State School of Government Accounting
(STAN). The STAN pre-service accountancy courses are offered at two levels:
a three-year adjunct accountant course (called the Diploma III level), and a
five-year accountant course (called the Diploma IV level), which also requires
a thesis and working experience as an adjunct accountant. Diploma IV
graduates are eligible for certification by MOF as Registered Accountants.
STAN trains about 400 graduates per year in its pre-service diploma III and
diploma IV programs of accountancy, all of whom are required to serve at least
15 years in government employment. In addition, STAN offers an extensive
program of in-service training for government accountants and auditors--
usually in the form of two-week training courses on specific topics of
accounting or auditing practice.
1.28      There are currently a total of 85 universities, institutes, and
academies which offer post-secondary courses of accountancy, but there are
important differences among these programs in terms of their size and quality.
The vast majority of Registered Accountants in Indonesia are graduates of STAN
and the eight state universities with accredited accountancy programs.
Together, these programs graduate about 420 students per year at the regis-
tered accountant level. By 1978, private institutes had trained over 2,500
students of accounting at the bachelors level. However, by 1987 only 90
master's level graduates had registered for the certification exam, and of
these only 24 had passed. In part, this weak performance by the private
institutes of accountancy, and more generally, by the non-accredited accoun-
tancy programs reflects the difference in certification requirements for
graduates of non-accredited accountancy programs--who must pass the profes-
sional certification exam--versus graduates of accredited programs--who are
not required to take the exam. But, more basically, it reflects the weakness
of their programs and staff: A general problem with accountancy training
programs of all kinds is the shortage of qualified teaching staff and teaching
materials for the new methods of accountancy which are now widely adopted in
the private sector and which are about to be introduced in the public sector.
1.29      This problem results from the dualism which has characterized
accountancy training programs for most of the past three decades. Following
the nationalization of Dutch companies in 1957, private-sector companies
progressively replaced the former, inherited accounting practices with more
modern accounting practices--particularly, of North American origin. At the
same time, government accounting has continued to follow the earlier prac-
tices. There had thus been a need for accountancy training at all levels to
provide instruction in both the old and new systems of accounting. As the
Government has progressively become committed to modernization of government
accountancy and as the private sector's adoption of new accounting practices
has become widespread, however, the need for maintaining a dual system of
accountancy education no longer exists. Recognizing this fact, the MOEC moved
early in the 1980's to prepare new curricula for accountancy education at all
levels. These curricula are now complete and in operation, but their effec-
tiveness is impaired by teachers' unfamiliarity with the new techniques and
with the lack of suitable Indonesian language textbooks, teachers' manuals,
and other teaching materials.



- 10 -
1.30      Accounting education at the secondary level is included in two of
the upper secondary (grades 10-12) education programs: Upper Secondary
Commercial Schools (SMEAs) and Upper Secondary General Schools (SMAs). Of
these, the SMEAs offer the more extensive training in accountancy. The SMEAs
also constitute by far the largest vocational school system in Indonesia,
covering about one-third of all students enrolled in the more than 25 differ-
ent types of vocational programs. There are currently about 1,200 SMEAs, of
which 300 are public and 900 are private. Although more numerous, the private
SMEAs tend to be much smaller than the public SMEAs: Total enrollments in the
private SMEAs are 250,000, versus about 200,000 in the public SMEAs. The cur-
ricula are the same in the public and the private SHEAs. Both provide three-
year specializations in administration, accounting, business and commerce,
cooperatives and tourism. Each of these specializations contains a set of
accounting courses ranging from basic tourism-related accounting in the
tourism specialization to more advanced financial and cost accounting, audit-
ing, finance and taxation in the accounting program. (An outline of the
accounting curriculum is included in Annex 3.) About 30X of SMEA students are
enrolled in the accounting specialization. Annual graduates from this stream
(from both public and private SMEAs) number about 40,000 per year. Most of
these graduates enter the workforce as accounting technicians. About one-
third of the 2,500 teachers of accountancy in the public and private SMEAs
received upgrading training in accountancy under the First Polytechnic Project
(paras. 1.33 and 1.39).
1.31      A less intensive program of basic accounting training is offered in
upper secondary general schools (SMAs). Currently, the SMAs consist of a
single, 3-year academic stream with 4 options: physical science, biological
science, social science and culture. Two hours a week of instruction in basic
accounting is taught in the second and third year of the social science
stream, which enrolls the majority (55%) of SMA students. Since over half of
SMA students choose the social science stream, approximately one third of the
2.2 million SMA students in 1986 received this basic accounting training in
about 1,400 public and 4,500 private SMAs (Annex 4). Of about 140,000 SMA
teachers, approximately 2,500 are teachers of accounting. Most of these
accounting teachers have been trained in outdated bookkeeping procedures, and
a limited upgrading program conducted by the Accountancy Development Centers
(ADCs) has not proved adequate as a basis for improving the quality of
instruction.
1.32      Under the authority of the MOEC's Directorate General for Nonformal
Education, Youth and Sports, nonformal education programs are conducted in
more than 13,400 (mainly private) institutions in Indonesia, with a total of
about 1.4 million students enrolled in 1986. Two different types of nonfoirmal
education programs are offered under this system. The largest is a general
education program with main emphasis on literacy courses. The other is an
occupational program designed to foster specific employable skills. Students
completing the program are eligible to take an examination certifying comple-
tion of training equivalent to upper secondary vocational schooling (grade
12). The largest of the nonformal programs is in bookkeeping and accounting.
Courses in these subjects are offered by 752 institutions at 4 different
levels of training, ranging from 156 lessons of basic accounting to 459
lessons of more advanced accounting. In 1986, these courses enrolled a total



- 11 -
of about 100,000 students, of whom 59Z took the secondary-level equivalency
examination in accounting. Surveys undertaken by the Directorate General
indicate that the popularity of the accounting specialization among the
students taking the nonformal occupational courses reflects the successful
record of job placement of former graduates, particularly in small and medium-
sized enterprises. Until recently, the former Dutch-based system of account-
ing was the preferred method of instruction, and only very few of the 750 full
time and 2,900 part-time instructors are trained in modern accounting. By
1993, the total number of accounting instructors is expected to reach 3,600
employed at about 1,200 institutions.  Beginning in 1988, the national exami-
nation will test only modern accounting, which will add to the severe need for
revision of the programs and retraining of the teachers.
Accountancy Development Strategy
1.33      Government Strategy.  The Government's awareness of the issues
described above and its concern about their consequences has grown progres-
sively over the past decade. Under the recently completed Polytechnic Project
(Cr. 869-IND 1979), it established ADCs at three leading state universities
and at STAN. It also expanded enrollments at the secondary level and in non-
formal education. The Government now recognizes that there are limits to how
effectively it can address the recognized accountancy deficiencies through
such training expansion alone. More basic changes are clearly called for--
particularly in government accounting practices. If such changes are
eventually to be made, there is merit in deciding on those changes sooner
rather than later so that ongoing training programs can prepare for them.
Moreover, efforts to modernize accountancy now are timely in that they would
complement the Government's ongoing macroeconamic adjustment program, which,
among its major goals, emphasizes economic efficiency.
1.34      Also under the Polytechnic Project, MOF commissioned an exsensive
study of needs for modernization in government accounting practices._ That
study developed a detailed program of proposed meaures to modernize government
accountancy. After MOF's evaluation of the study and consultation with the
other ministries involved (as well as with the Bank), the Government has made
the decision to incorporate the preposed changes into its systev of central
government accounts and to reflect those changes in its various accountancy
training programs.
9/   The full findings of the study, which occupy more than 20 volumes, are
summarized in an October 1984 consultant's report entitled "Study on
Government Accounting and Auditing Modernization in Indonesia: Major
Findings on the Existing Budgeting, Accounting, and Reporting Systems."
The sumary report is available in the project file.



- 12 -
1.35      The most important changes to be introduced in8, the modernized
system of central government accounts are the following:_
(a) Double-Entry Accounts. To improve accuracy and completeness of
government accounts (para. 1.14(a)], all revenue and expenditure
accounts are to be kept on a double-entry basis, with offsetting
debits and credits.
(b) Consolidation of Central Accounting. To improve the timeliness,
accuracy, consistency and completeness of reports on overall govern-
ment revenues and expenditures (para. 1.14(b)], responsiblAity for
maintaining government-wide accounts of revenues and expenditures is
to be fully centralized within the State Financial Accounting Center
of the MOF.  The main immediate effect of this measure will be to
integrate into the MOF's consolj4qted accounts the formerly separate
accounts of Bagian Anggaran 16      and the Central State Treasury
System. At the same time, the MOF State Financial Accounting Center
is to be given responsibility for introducing and maintaining
accountancy standards throughout the Government.
(c) Improved Agency Accounting. To provide better support to agency
program and project managers, the responsibility for maintaining
basic agency accounts is to be decentralized. Expenditures will be
classified in agency accounts by program/project and category of
expenditure--introducing detail on program-level components which is
not generally available under current classifications of agency
accounts. At the same time, controls are to be applied by the
agencies in extracting and reporting information for the consoli-
dated budget report; this will strengthen financial control of the
accuracy and completeness of reports on government revenues and
expenditures.
(d) Introduction of Balance-Sheet Accounting. To support enhanced
accountability for state investments, the notion of government
equity [para. 1.14(e)] is to be introduced into government accounts
by distinguishing capital items in government revenue and
10/  The objectives, rationale, and thrust of the modernization program were
described in a September 1986 presentation by the Minister of Finance,
Mr. Radius Prowiro, to the International Financial Management Conference
in Washington, D.C. The presentation is reproduced as "Reforming Finan-
cial Management in Government: The Indonesian Agenda," in International
Journal of Government Auditing, January 1987 (available in the project
file).
11/  "Bagian Anggaran 16" designates the special fund managed by the Minister
of Finance, which is not for the exclusive use of any specific depart-
ment, and which includes the budget allocated for such items as pension
payments, subsidies to locail governments, investments in state
enterprises, and amortization of foreign loans.



- 13 -
expenditure accounts, and carrying them in separate asset and
liability accounts.
(e) Uniform Chart of Accounts. To assure consistency of recording and
reporting, a uniform chart of accounts (or schedule of budget
headings) [para. 1.14(b)(i)] is to be developed and introduced.
1.36      This program of changes to modernize government accountancy is vast.
It would eventually affect the work of hundreds of thousands of civil ser-
vants, and for some of them it would mean a fundamental change in how they
conceive their work.  The Government is aware of the ambitiousness of the
program. To minimize the inevitable disruption involved and to preclude the
(unacceptable) risk of a lapse in coverage by either the old system or the new
system of accounts, the Government has decided to implement the changes inti-
ally on a pilot basis in selected directorates general of four ministries,
with subsequent, progressive extension to other directorates general and then
to other ministries. The existing system of accounts would be maintained and
would run in parallel with the new system in each directorate general until
staff training had been completed and the new system had been successfully
piloted. At that point, the changeover to the new system would occur. Imple-
mentation of the government accounting modernization, then, would progress in
stepwise fashion across the various units of central government. Following
successful implementation at this level, it is envisioned that similar
improvements in accounting practices would be adodpted by public enterprises
and by lower levels of Government. In preparation for implementation of the
accountancy modernization program, the Government established in 1985 an
interministerial Coordinating Agency for Accountancy Development (CAAD), which
includes representation from the IAI. Support for this activity was provided
under the Second Polytechnic Project (Ln. 2290-IND, 1984). CAAD's objectives
are to develop new accounting standards for the public and private sectors, to
coordinate implementation of those standards, and to ensure that training
programs are consistent with them.
1.37      In addition to the modernization of government accountancy, the
Government's strategy for accountancy development includes a number of comple-
mentary actions to strengthen accountancy training at all levels, to expand
the role of the professional association of accountants, and to promote the
development of a private securities market. Although the Government expects
to continue to expand accountancy training capacity, its current training
efforts will focus on improving the qualifications of existing accounting
manpower. This qualitative emphasis in the Government's accountancy develop-
ment strategy is appropriate in view if the urgency of existing needs.
1.38      Bank Strategy.  The Bank Group has been engaged in a dialogue with
the Government on needs in accountancy development since the preparation of
the 1979 Polytechnic Project. The accountancy component of that project
included a study of government accounting practices and proposed changes which
are the basis of the Government's current accountancy modernization program.
The Bank worked closely with the Government in reviewing the specific
proposals which emerged from the study, and advised the Government on the
creation of CAAD as a key element to assure successful implementation of the
program. The Bank fully endorses the Government's accountancy modernization



- 14 -
program, as well as its plan for phased implementation of the program
(para. 1.36). It views these efforts as an appropriate response to the major
issues described above (paras. 1.8-1.32), and as a timely complement to the
Government's ongoing macroeconomic adjustment efforts. The proposed Accoun-
tancy Deylopment Project would support the initial implementation of the
program.-
1.39      In addition to supporting the development of the current accountancy
modernization program, the 1979 Polytechnic Project also financed the
establishment of three new ADCs within the faculties of economics of the
University of Indonesia (UI) University of Gajah Mada (UGM), and the
University of North Sumatra (USU) as well as a new ADC at STAN, the MOF's
training institute. Together, these centers have trained more than 5,000
accountants and accounting teachers to date (December 1987). The Polytechnic
Project was the first Bank-group education project in Indonesia to provide
support for specialized programs of accountancy training. The project closed
in June 1985, and is being followed up under the Second Polytechnic Project
(Ln. 2290-IND, 1984). This ongoing project includes support for the creation
of 770 training places in accounting under a new commercial stream which is
being introduced in the national polytechnic system.
1.40      In addition to the two polytechnic projects, the Bank Group has
supported a total of 17 education and training projects in Indonesia, amount-
ing to total commitments of US$948 million, net of cancellations. Most of
these projects have been or are being implemented by MOEC. The implementation
experience with those projects indicates the importance of as simple an
administrative structure as possible and the early appointment of full-time
staff to manage implementation units. The design of the current project
reflects these concerns: Managers of all project units have been designated,
including the key staff of the accounting practice (MOF) component who are
already at work. Moreover, two consolidated PIUs will manage implementation
in the various departments of the two ministries involved (para. 2.38)--a
significant innovation in light of past experience in the MOEC.
1.41      A question of concern in past Bank-sponsored projects in all sectors
is the timeliness of submission of project audit reports. The Bank has
addressed the problem of late audit reports on a project-by-project basis
through several actions, including financing assistance for preparing finan-
cial statements and special supervision efforts by Bank staff with PIU and
12/ Prior Bank Group experience with support of system-wide accountancy
reform is limited to two recent projects in Madagascar (Credits 1155-MAG
and 1661-MAG), whose implementation has been generally satisfactory. The
accountancy modernization program whose implementation the proposed loan
would support differs from the Madagascar operations in that: (a) it
involves a more extensive set of changes in accountancy practices; (b) it
includes more complementary actions--including training, capital market
development, and strengthening the professional association of
accountants; and (c) it was preceded by much more intensive preparations-
-including development of detailed plans for phased implementation.



- 15 -
audit agency staff. These efforts, which have led to improved audit perfor-
mance, vill continue. In the meantime, the proposed project, by supporting
actions to strengthen BPKP and ministry staff capabilities in accountancy and
auditing, is expected to contribute to further improvements in government
audit performance in the mediun term.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
2.1       The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to improve accounting practices: (i) in the public sector, by
supporting the introduction of modernized government accounting
practices, initially in MOF and three other agencies, and eventually
in all agencies; and (ii) in the private sector by supporting the
development of technical standards and a code of ethics for the
accountancy profession; and
(b) to support the Government's program to raise the quality of
accounting faculty and teaching staff, and to prepare for future
expansion of accountancy education and training.
2.2       The project has a number of secondary objectives, each of which is
aligned with one of the main objectives. Of the secondary objectives, the
most important are: (a) developing the quality of government auditing
agencies and government auditors; (b) strengthening the organization of the
profession of accountancy; (c) increasing the scope and efficiency of the
capital market; (d) increasing the supply of qualified accounting
professionals; and (e) improving the management of accounting education.
2.3       A single project can only be viewed as a small part of a reform as
far-reaching as that outlined in para. 1.35. The entire process may well call
for successive projects involving further policy, structural and procedural
changes over the next two decades.  To give continuity of direction to this
process, the project provides for the guidance of special consultants of
eminence in the international profession of accountancy to be available to the
Government (para. 2.40).
Project Description
2.4       Project components have been designed and grouped into two subproj-
ects: Accounting Practice and Accounting Education. This grouping reflects
the division of primary responsibility for project implementation within the
Government of Indonesia, between MOF on the one hand and MOEC on the other
(para. 2.38). Linking these two subprojects is a third (CAAD), which is
concerned with the administrative and logistical arrangements for maintaining
coordination between various project activities, and for planning and
designing future stages of accounting development.



- 16 -
Accounting Practice
(US$57.9 million excluding contingencies)
2.5       Government Accounting Modernization (US$13.3 million, net of
contingencies.  In this component of the Accounting Practice subproject, a
start would be made in implementing the modernized government accounting
system which has been designed with the help of consultants (SGV-Utomo) funded
under the Polytechnic Project (Cr. 869-IND) and the Polytechnic II Project
(Ln. 2290-IND). The main changes to be introduced under the modernized system
are described in para. 1.35, above. The principal improvements to be effected
by this system are in control (through the introduction of double-entry book-
keeping), consistency (by the establishment of a uniform chart of accounts and
consolidation of central accounting), and utility (by extending the financial
reporting system to balance-sheet items as well as revenue and expenditure
items, and by introducing a functional classification of expenditures). The
new government accountancy program involves four main accounting subsystems:
(a)  the Central Accounting System for MOF.  This system provides MOF
with the capability to produce reports of budget realization and
statements of assets, liabilities and fund equity in an accurate and
timely manner and without dependence on the prior completion of
reports by the agencies;
(b) the Central State Treasury Accounting System. This system will
provide MOF for the first time with centralized accounting for the
whole of government's cash resources;
(c) the Agency Accounting System. This system will provide agency
management with better information to monitor and control budget
implementation, and in particular offers the capability to generate
information at the program and project level; and
(d) the "Bagian Anggaran 16" System, which provides an accounting system
to cover the diverse activities of this set of budgets. (See
footnote 11.)
2.6       A system test of the modernized government accountancy program (also
funded under the Polytechnic II Project) was carried out in parallel with the
present system during the period December 1987 through March 1988, following
which finxal refinements are being made to the system design and detailed
implementation plans are being drawn up. It is intended that implementation
should begin as soon as possible after the conclusion of the system test so
that that momentum will be maintained and the expertise of the staff trained
in the new system will not be lost. Implementation will begin in MOF and in
the agencies selected for the system test, which include certain directorates-
general in the Ministries of Public Works, Trade and Social Affairs. Each
succeeding year, implementation will begin in a further four agencies. Imple-
mentation in each agency is expected to take 4-5 years to be fully effec-
tive. The major tasks involved, and funded in this component of the project,
are the preparation of the books and forms required, development of systems
operation manuals, and training the staff in the new procedures. Consultants,



- 17 -
to be appointed at the conclusion of the system test, will undertake most of
the technical work under the direction of the Accounting Practice PIU
(para. 2.38). STA1 will be extensively involved in the training program; its
instructors will first be fully briefed on the new system, and will then
participate in training succeeding groups of staff as implementation
proceeds. Implementation of the new government accounting system requires the
authority of Instructions from the Minister of Finance. The implementation of
the modernized government accounting system will also involve organizational
changes in both the MOF and other agencies. The main features of these
changes have already been determined and comprise:
(a) the consolidation of central government accounting operations under
a Central Accounting Office;
(b) the consolidation of treasury operations under a Central State
Treasury and their separation from accounting; and
(c) the decentralization of agencies' basic bookkeeping.
Following the system test, the details of the revised organizational
arrangements will be finalized for implementation along with the new system.
At the same time, the extent of feasible and desirable computerization of the
new system will be evaluated; however, the system has been designed for, and
would be introduced with, lOOZ manual operation.
2.7       Assurances were obtained at negotiations that, on the basis of the
results of the systems test, the Government would prepare and submit to the
Bank for comment by December 31, 1988, a detailed program for implementation
of government accountancy modernization, including the organizational arrange-
ments and government Instructions necessary for implementaion. Following
consultation with the Bank, the Government would subsequently implement the
program in a manner satiefactory to the Bank.
2.8       The completion of implementation throughout all government agencies
will clearly require a time span much longer than that of the proposed proj-
ect. However, at the end of the first phase implementation covered by the
project, the groundwork will have been laid for a smooth extension of the
modernized accounting system. The Central Accounting Office will be directing
the installation and development of the system; the Central State Treasury
will be managing the Government's cash; key systems of budgetary and financial
reporting will be in place in MOF; and a number of other agencies will have
begun to use the new systems. The participating staff of these agencies will
constitute a core of trained and experienced staff for the succeeding phases
of implementation. It is intended that the State budget should be compiled on
the basis of the new chart of accounts for the year 1990/91, and that the
consolidated budget realization reports for that year and subsequent years
should be produced by MOF using the new system.
2.9       Government Auditing (US$15.7 million, net of contingencies).  This
component is directed to improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the
overall government audit function. Improved efficiency implies less time
spent on the audit by both auditor and client, without loas of quality;



- 18 -
improved effectiveness calls for sharpening the focus of the audit process on
value-for-money aspects such as reduction of waste, saving of cost, improved
management of resources and more effective reporting. To this end, the big-
gest part of this component (US$5.5 million excluding contingencies) comprises
in-country training for audit staff of BPK and BPKP; for this purpose BPKP
will also cater to the needs of Inspectorate-General and other central and
regional audit agency staff. Almost 100 courses will be prepared and
delivered by BPK, BPKP and STAN lecturers; it is estimated that about 75Z of
the agencies' 23,000 auditors will be reached. The courses will cover the
design and conduct of audits in general and for   -ific situations, as well
as modern tBchniques of auditing for both accountaoility and value-for-
money.
2.10      Besides training at the staff level, this component also includes:
(a) for BPK and BPKP senior staff, attendance at short courses overseas;
and
(b)  for BPK, 13 masters and 2 doctoral programs overseas, and attendance
by selected senior staff at seminars and conferences sponeared by
the International and Asian Organizations of Supreme Audit Institu-
tions (INTOSAI and ASOSAI).
Funding will be included in this component for the provision of specialist
services, enhanced training facilities and equipment in BPK and BPKP premises,
including computers, visual aids, library equipment and textbooks.
2.11      Government Education and Training (US$20.1 million, net of contin-
gencies). The project would provide assistance for the following four
activities being undertaken by STAN:
(a) the provision of equipment, books, and materials for STAN's new
suburban Jakarta campus now being readied for full scale
operation;
(b) the regular STAN preservice accountancy diploma programs (Dip. III
and Dip. IV);
(c) the ongoing inservice educational programs for internal auditors in
government and state corporations and for government auditors in BPK
and BPKP, managed by the ADC located in STAN.  These c  yses would
be expanded to cover about 21,000 course participants -   during the
five-year period, as compared with a total of about 3,350 course
participants from 1980 through November 1986; in preparation for
this training, 154 instructors (64 from STAN, 60 from BPKP, and 30
from BPK) would be trained for a period of 22 days; and
13/ The figure covers approximately 3,250 employees, most of whom would
participate in several courses.



- 19 -
(d) a planned comprehensive inservice training program for government
accountants and auditors covering the new government accounting
practices. During the project period, this program would cover
about half of an estimated 36,000 accounting personnel Icentral,
regional and local government offices needing training._
Regarding the diploma programs, the component would emphasize quality improve-
ment through procurement of teaching and administration equipment, personnel
development programs, technical assistance, revision of syllabi, production
and procurement of teaching materials, books and journals, and three research
activities covering needs assessment. The quality of the programs mentioned
under (b) and (c) would also benefit from the input of equipment, staff devel-
opment activities, technical assistance, library materials, and the research
activities mentioned above.
2.12      The procurement of equipment would provide STAN with computers
including peripherals and furniture for teaching, administration and library,
audiovisual teaching equipment and reproduction facilities. The staff devel-
opment programs would include a series of 60 seminars, short domestic courses
(1,100 staff-days in total), short overseas courses and study visits (about 95
staff-months) and fellowships for overseas advanced degrees (115 staff-years
covering 45 fellowships for master's-degree programs, including 15 fellowships
for BPKP, and 5 fellows for doctorate programs). Upon completion of overseas
studies, the graduates would return to teach and supervise other teachers at
the STA ,which at present employs only 10 full-time teachers out of a total
of 155,   Foreign technical assistance would total about 11 person-years,
including 5 person-years of general assistance within management and educa-
tional development activities, and 6 person-years of more specialized assist-
ance in syllabus and course revision within computer auditing and value-for-
money auditing. Local experts would be employed in the field of development,
management and administration of computer systems. Implementation of programs
would be carried out within a framework of the minimum curriculum prescribed
by MOEC.
2.13      Capital Markets (US$3.2 million, net of contingencies).  This compo-
nent will assist the Capital Market Executive Agency (BAPEPAM) and the Stock-
brokers' Association in arresting the declining volume of business on the
exchange, and in promoting the capital market as an effective instrument of
resource mobilization. The services of a specialist advisor (about 10 consul-
tant person-months) would be retained to examine the present structure and
operations of the market and advise on legislative and administrative measures
necessary to secure a high level of confidence in the integrity and efficiency
of the exchange on the part of investors (including potential foreign inves-
tors), and to broaden its utility to Indonesian companies as a source of
finance. The specialist advisor would also monitor the implementation of
14/ The figures are exclusive of information sessions for management and
users.
15/ The long-term target is 45 full-time teachers.



- 20 -
specific subcomponents designed to: (a) consolidate and clarify the law and
regulations governing the conduct of the capital markets; and (b) establish
reporting standards for prospectuses and annual reports of listed companies.
The project provides the technical assistance required by BAPEPAM's own staff
to research and complete these tasks. Finally, the project provides for staff
of BAPEPAN (and of PT Danareksa and of the Money and Securities Traders' Asso-
ciation members where appropriate) to be trained by foreign experts in modern
stock exchange practices.
2.14      Private Sector (US$2.1 million, net of contingencies).  This compo-
nent is designed principally to assist the Indonesian Institute of Accountants
(IAI) in its evolution towards leadership of the accountancy profession in
Indonesia. Apart from a small secretariat, the IAI is dependent on the part-
time service of its officers. This component will provide technical assis-
tance (about 150 consultant person-months) to support the ongoing efforts of
various committees of IAI to: (a) formulate and promulgate a number of
accounting and auditing standards; (b) develop a program of continuing profes-
sional education for accounting practitioners; and (c) establish a code of
ethics and a quality control mechanism for accountants in public practice. To
help establish the IAI as a source of assistance to the business community,
packages will be developed to meet the needs of small businesses for account-
ing, costing, banking and taxation systems.
2.15      The accounting standards [para. 2.14(a)J will form the basis for
more consistent financial reporting by private sector businesses, and will be
harmonized to the extent possible with International Accounting Standards. A
means of enforcing compliance with these standards is clearly desirable, and
for the time being this can be found in the Indonesian tax law. By article
28(4) of the General Provisions and Procedure on Taxes (1983), the Minister of
Finance is empowered to issue regulations as to the accounts to be filed by
companies for tax purposes.
2.16      In the longer term, the Government is considering strengthening the
regulation of companies and improving the statistical base on industrial
activities in Indonesia by instituting some form of companies' registry and
requiring certain information to be reported to the registry on a regular
basis by all Indonesian companies. A feasibility study for this purpose is
included in the private sector component of the project. This will include
the review of similar arrangements in other countries, and the development of
specifications for the information systems necessary to support statutory
reporting.
2.17      As with government accounting modernization (para. 2.8), the devel-
opment and strengthening of accountancy standards and practices in the private
sector clearly requires a timeframe longer than that of the proposed project.
The project is designed to provide a sound basis for future development by
establishing certain fundamental accounting principles for all financial
reporting, and a mechanism for their enforcement; by preparing for the intro-
duction of more systematic business reporting and monitoring; and by assisting
IAI to equip itself to direct the practice of accountancy in Indonesia with
the authority and independence required of a professional institution.



- 21 -
2.18      Subproject Management (US$3.5 million, net of contingencies).  This
component includes various activities to facilitate implementation of the five
components under the Accounting Practice subproject. Activities include
(a) coordination of overseas degree and nondegree fellowship programs includ-
ing selection of fellows, arrangements for pre-departure training, placement
and reintegration of the fellows upon completion of the programs; (b) coordi-
nation of procurement of equipment and technical assistance, including prep-
aration of bidding documents, tendering, evaluation, contract administration;
(c) financial management and administration including preparation of annual
plans of activities and budget, maintenance of subproject accounts and loan
disbursement accounts; and (d) monitoring, evaluation and reporting. To
support these activities, the project would provide for specialist services
(13 local consultant person-years and 11 foreign consultant person-years), and
related equipment and incremental operating cost!
Accounting Education
(US$81.1 million excluding contingencies)
2.19      This subproject would assist the Government to improve the quality
of accounting manpower by the provision of assistance to accounting education
in the following subsectors of public and private education: (a) Higher Edu-
cation, (b) Upper Secondary Commercial Education, (c) Upper Secondary General
Education, and (d) Nonformal (Adult) Education. The assistance would include
technical assistance, personnel development, procurement of teaching equipment
and materials, research, establishment of capacity for teacher training and
long-term development of accounting education, fellowships to train accounting
teachers and loan programs for institutions and students in nonformal educa-
tion. The improved quality of the training programs would eventually permit
expansion of accountancy enrollments.
2.20      Accounting Education in Higher Education (US$24.4 million, net of
contingencies). Assistance to accountancy education in the higher education
subsector will emphasize efforts to improve quality rather than to expand
undergraduate capacity, but a limited enrollment increase will result from a
general system expansion. The structure for accountancy development in higher
education comprises 18 institutions arrayed in three groups (Annex 1). A
cascade approach will be employed with more mature universities assisting less
developed institutions. The top group comprises three institutions, UGM, UI,
and USU. They are classed as "assisting" universities because they are
expected to provide staff and curriculum development programs for the
others.  These q7tain three of the four existing Accountancy Development
Centers (ADCs).-   The only ex.sting S-2 (master's degree) program is located
at UGH and the proposed second S-2 program is to be established at UI. A
second group of three universities, Padjadjarah, Airlangga and Brawijaya,
comprises the next level. These will be the location of the three new ADCs to
be launched under the project. They will also assist less-mature universities
of level three.
16/ The remaining existing ADC is located at STAN (para. 2.11).



- 22 -
2.21      Since the quality of higher education is dependent upon faculty
performance more than any other factor, an extensive p:agram of staff develop-
ment is the cornerstone of this subcomponent. Overall 725 individuals will be
provided various forms of education and training ranging from the doctorate
abroad to two-month local nondegree upgrading courses (Annex 2). In order to
increase the future supply of potential faculty in accounting, 100 local fel-
lowships will be made available to outstanding undergraduate students. Fel-
lows will be selected on the basis of thei' performance in their first or
second year of study and their financial support will continue for the remain-
der of their university period, about 3 years in most cases. A bonding
arrangement will be used which will assure a reasonable period of university
teaching after graduation. Efforts will be made to have fellows serve in the
newly developed accountancy departments. Expatriate and local specialists
will be employed in the higher education program. Expatriate professors will
be engaged to teach in and render advice to the accountancy departments of UI
and UGM where graduate level instruction is planned. Local consultants will
be used in the university affiliation program (para. 2.20). Local computer
managers will be engaged to serve in the 18 universities which will receive
computers under the project (para 2.23).
2.22      The higher education subcomponent will include several programs
designed to improve curricula and instruction: importing of textbooks and
journals, writing new textbooks, establishing a scholarly journal in account-
ing, and expanded access to the state examination used to certify accountancy
graduates of unaccredited universities. The three existing and three new ADCs
will receive project assistance in the form of staff honoraria and supply and
equipment financing. In the monitoring of project outcomes, the following
three topics will have emphasis: (a) supply and distribution of accounting
manpower; (b) the content of accounting curricula; and (c) unification of
accounting education (articulation of the curricula at secondary, tertiary and
other levels).
2.23      As part of the institutional quality improvement theme of the proj-
ect, 18 participating universities and 10 Teacher Training Colleges (IKIPs)
would be provided with appropriate numbers of microcomputers, printers,
copiers and related audiovisual operations. Participating universities will
also receive assistance for the rental of office and institutional space for
ADCs and to house computers; however, there would be no need for new construc-
tion.
2.24      Accounting Education in Secondary Education.  The project would
assist accounting education in two secondary education programs: Upper Secon-
dary Commercial Education (SHEA) and Upper Secondary General Education (SMA).
2.25      SMEAs (US$15.5 million, net of contingencies).  The project would
provide assistance in the form of staff and curriculum development and



- 23 -
equipment to about 300 public and 200 private SMEAs.L71 Based on quality,
size and relevance, 100 of the 300 public SMEAs have been targeted to receive
special, more advanced assistance in the form of microcomputers including
peripherals and furniture. To ensure that the equipment is in working
condition and to assist teachers and students in operating the equipment,
training courses of 2-month duration for selected teachers would be provided.
2.26      Staff development will be a critical factor in the implementation of
this component. A modernization of the curriculum for the accountancy streams
has been completed (Annex 3) and the project would continue the teacher
upgrading program began under the Polytechnic Project (Cr. 869-IND) by finan-
cing four-month, in-country courses for 1,100 accounting teachers selected
from 300 public and 200 private SMEAs. Furthermore, a total of 10 staff-years
of overseas training for 25-30 accounting supervisors and 10-15 staff from
central offices would be established, covering accounting and administrative
skills. Upon completion of the training the supervisors would conduct semi-
nars and training courses for fellow supervisors in their province. Finally,
200 outstanding SMEA graduates in accounting would be identified and offered
fellowships covering a 3-year Diploma III program at the Vocational Education
and Development Center, a specialized training center for teachers of voca-
tional and technical programs. These fellows would be recruited mainly
outside Java under training contracts which would ensure that upon graduation
the fellows would serve as SMEA teachers in areas with limited ability to
attract teachers.
2.27      The project would assist in three complementary ways with the
continuation of the acquisition and development of teaching materials started
by the ADCa under the Polytechnic Project. Student manuals in the form of
textbooks and exercise books would be developed, printed and distributed to
each of the 500 SMEAs targeted to receive assistance under the project. Fur-
thermore, teachers' manuals covering accounting-related subjects and teaching
and evaluation methodology would be written, printed and distributed to the
same SMEAs. Finally, acquisition and distribution of a limited number of
local and foreign reference books and textbooks for the SMEA school libraries
would be included in the project.
2.28      SMAs (US$12.6 million, net of contingencies).  The project would
provide a program of 8-month in-service upgrading courses for about 2,350
teachers of accounting or related fields. The program, called Pemantapan
Kerja Guru (PKG), is an extension of the PKG-programs already established
under the ongoing Bank-financed Secondary Education and Management Training
Project (Ln. 2472-IND). About 100 accounting teachers would be trained for 8
months to become qualified PKG instructors. Furthermore, the project would
include a 3-month overseas training course for 54 supervising teachers and 4
staff members from central office responsible for developing and implementing
17/ There are 300 public and 900 private SMEAs (para. 1.30). All public
SMEAs will participate in the project. The 200 (of 900) private SMEAs
were selected on the basis of quality of program and staff and proximity
to commercial enterprises.



- 24 -
accounting curricula. A total of 28 supervisors (27 from the provinces and I
from central office) would participate in a one-month overseas program, cover-
ing alternative teaching methodologies in accounting education.
2.29      Based on educational quality, sixe and proximity to commerce, 100
public SHAs would be selected and each would receive 10 microcomputers with
peripherals and furniture. Training of teachers to use the computers would be
part of the training package to be carried out in the PKG program. To meet
the demand for accounting teaching materials, the project would include
writing, printing and distribution of two accounting textbooks, one for each
of grade 11 and 12, and two workbooks, covering the same grades. Four
teacher's manuals to accompany the texts and workbooks would also be written,
printed and distributed. (Faculty members from the ADCs will be requested to
write these teaching materials). Finally, two accounting reference books
would be purchased and distributed to about 1,400 public SMAs (6 copies each)
and about 4,500 private schools (2 copies each).
2.30      Nonformal Accountancy Training (US$20.0 million, net of contingen-
cies). The project would support the further extension and reinforcement of
the accountancy training now being provided under the employment-oriented
training program of MOEC's Directorate of Comm!unity Education (DIKKAS). This
program, which provides practical job-oriented training in numerous cccupa-
tions to out-of-school youths and adults, was developed under the First Non-
Formal Education Project (Ln. 1486-IND), and is being supported under the
ongoing Second Nonformal Education Project (Ln. 2355-IND). Implementation of
the program to date has been very satisfactory.
2.31      Under this component of the proposed project, DIKKAS would assist in
the improvement of training courses in bookkeeping and accountancy subjects
offered at more than 750 private training institutes. Content of accounting
courses would be revised through the development of two models, one being an
updated and relevant version of the current program and the other incorporat-
ing contemporary computer assisted accounting into each of the updated four
levels of skills. Learning materials and instructor manuals would be devel-
oped and distributed together with supplementary textbook materials. The
project would include a review of each of the 4 levels of the national book-
keeping examination, and 20 sets of new test questions would be generated,
printed and distributed.
2.32      A personnel development subcomponent would include selection and
training of 35 DIKKAS instructors from seven provinces to become master train-
ers. In turn, these master trainers would train approximately 3,600 account-
ing instructors from private institutes in 23 provinces. The latter would
require about 125,000 staff-days of training. Furthermore, following a
similar model, 740 course operators and program managers would receive
administration and management training. A total of about 1,350 supervisors
from central, provincial, district and subdistrict offices would receive
supervisor development training, including examination management training.
Finally, about 1,800 instructors would attend sessions to improve their
ability to develop and evaluate examinations. One of the outcomes would be
the establishment of a National Test Bank. The project would include the
development of training manuals for the various courses.



- 25 -
2.33      Local experts would be engaged to assist the project implementation
staff design, manage and implement the various project activities. The assis-
tance would total 280 person-months and include assistance in planning and
development of curriculum, course modules and materials, information systems,
management practices, and studies.
2.34      The project would create two revolving funds making financial assis-
tance available to the private nonformal institutions and to their students,
similar to the institutional and learning funds which are operating success-
fully in the Second Nonformal Education Project. Under the "Institutional
Fund," a total of US$2.4 million in loans for acquisition of equipment and
materials of up to Rp 5 million at a time would be made to the existing train-
ing institutions according to agreed criteria. Repayments of the loans would
assist in the establishment and development of new nonformal institutions.
The "Learning Fund" would provide student loans ranging from about US$50
equivalent to about US$160 equivalent for approximately 30,000 students at the
basic levels. The loans would be transferred to the institutions to cover
tuition and books. Selection of the students would be based on a means test.
The repayment period would be 12-24 months, following a 3-month grace period
upon completion of the course. The institutions would be instrumental in
obtaining employment for the graduates, and in these cases repayments would be
withheld as 10% of the salaries. Repayments of the loans would permit future
loans to other students. The administration of funds and loan repayments and
an evaluation of the program would be included in the project.
2.35      Subproject Management (US$8.6 million, net of contingencies).  This
component is designed to aid the implementation of all four components of the
Accounting Education subproject by the PIUs concerned (one central unit under
the MOEC's Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) and 27 regional
units; seven each for SMEA, SMA, and nonformal education and six for ADCs).
Each regional unit will be responsible to the central unit for the implementa-
tion of its component activities.
2.36      The central unit consists of a project manager and four divisions,
which will have the following primary functions: (a) financial management
including preparation of annual plans of activities and budget, maintenance of
subproject accounts and loan disbursements; (b) academic development, consis-
ting of development of standards and criteria for books and course materials,
coordination of overseas degree and nondegree fellowship programs including
selection of fellows, arrangements for pre-departure training, placement and
reintegration of the fellows upon completion of the programs, and of in-
country fellowship and upgrading training programs; (c) coordination of pro-
curement of equipment, books and technical assistance, including preparation
of bidding documents, tendering, evaluation, and contract administration; and
(d) project administration, monitoring, evaluation and reporting. To support
these activities, the project would provide for 27 consultant person-years of
local specialist services, related equipment, and incremental operating costs.
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
2.37      Project Organization and Management.  General oversight of the proj-
ect, including broad project policy and monitoring and evaluation of project



- 26 -
outcomes, would be vested in the Steering Committee of CAAD, which includes
senior representatives of MOF and MOEC as well as BAPPENAS. This body has
functioned in this role during project preparation and would continue
throughout the five and one-half year project period and thereafter. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would maintain CAAD
with appropriate functions, staffing, and resources throughout the proposed
project.
2.38      Under this canopy, direct project management would be performed by
three project implementation units (PIUs), one for each subproject: Account-
ing Practice in the MOF, Accounting Education in the DGHE of the MOEC, and
Project Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation in CAAD. These units have been
established, and assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government
would maintain these units with appropriate functions- staffing, and resources
throughout the proposed project. The two ministerial PIUs have representation
from the agencies within the Ministry which have responsibility for the compo-
nents of the project (Chart A). Each ministerial PIU is headed by a senior
official with direct access to the top management of the Ministry. Day-to-day
project management is to be accomplished by the PIU staff of full-time spe-
cialists in such fields as finance, personnel, procurement, training and
evaluation. Many staff members of the two large PIUs will be locally engaged
consultants. Each ministry will also form subordinate PIUs in each province
to handle decentralized project activities such as local training and delivery
of equipment to schools and offices. About 400 persons will be engaged in
project implementation at the national and provincial levels. Honoraria for
PIU staff who are government employees will be financed under the project for
activities additional to their routine responsibilities.
2.39      Accounting Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$7.0 million,
excluding contingencies). The CAAD will serve as the overall planning, moni-
toring and evaluation unit for the project and will directly manage several
activities which straddle the two major ministries involved in the project.
Among these activities are:  (a) continuation of the important contribution of
the Steering Committee of CAAD which has overseen the preparation of the proj-
ect; (b) consolidation of progress reporting to the Government and to the
Bank; (c) conduct of project monitoring and evaluation; (d) preparation of
plans for accreditation in Indonesian accounting education; (e) liaison with
the Special Consultants (para. 2.40); (f) planning for the future role, activ-
ities and facilities of CAAD and IAI; and (g) preparation of future projects.
In connection with (c), CAAD will continue to have available the services of
the consultant advisors (one Indonesian and one foreign) who have guided the
development of the project thus far. The project would provide for specialist
services (10 foreign and 25 local consultant person-years), related equipment
and incremental operating costs including facility rental.
2.40      With this project, the Government of Indonesia and the Bank confirm
their commitment to the strengthening of the practice of accountancy as an in-
strument of development in both the public and the private sectors. This com-
mitment and the fulfillment of its purpose are likely to involve a broadening
scope of activities. There will be an ongoing need to review the progress of
accountancy development with reference to the evolving requirements of
Indonesian society on the one hand and the international financial community



- 27 -
on the other. Special Consultants (about 20 person-months) are to be
appointed under the project to oversee the needs and direction of accountancy
development in Indonesia and counsel the Government accordingly. The group is
likely to comprise five distinguished authorities (two Indonesian and three
foreign) selected for their eminence in accountancy and could perhaps be con-
vened under the aegis of one of the international accounting bodies such as
IFAC or CAPA.   It is envisioned that the special consultants would visit
Indonesia twice annually to review ongoing programs of accountancy development
and advise on the direction of further initiatives.
2.41      Project Evaluation.  The Government would establish an evaluation
system covering the project implementation process as well as overall project
impact in relation to its immediate and long-term objectives. A set of mea-
surable project outcome indicators has been developed and confirmed
(Annex 6). Semiannual progress and evaluation reports would be prepared by
each of the two ministerial PIUs responsible for implementation in MOF and
MOEC, respectively. The MOF subteam would be assisted by a local evaluation
expert. The reports would be submitted to the CAAD Steering Committee for
review, assessment, and transmission to the Bank. Following this review, the
reports would be consolidated by CAAD and used as the basis for the agenda of
meetings with the Special Consultants (para. 2.40). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that CAAD would monitor all aspects of implementation of the
proposed project throughout its implementation, and would furnish promptly to
the Bank semi-annual reports on project implementation. Throughout the
project period, CAAD would be supported by an expatriate monitoring and
evaluation expert. Monitoring outcomes under the higher education subcom-
ponent (para. 2.22) would also constitute important project-evaluation data.
Implementation would be monitored by the Bank through:
(a) close collaboration with the CAAD Steering Committee in overall
project monitoring; and
(b)  semiannual supervision missions including annual review of detailed
plans for all project activities and budgets in coordination with
the annual government budget process.
III. PROJECT IMPLZMENTATION
Implementation
3.1       The project would be implemented over a period of five and one-half
years (Annex 10). To allow sufficient time for submission of final withdrawal
applications following the scheduled completion date of December 31, 1993, the
Closing Date would be June 30, 1994. While this period is sufficient to
accomplish specific project objectives, it is expected that the Government
will subsequently request project support for extension of the accounting
reform throughout the country, a process that may take more than 20 years.
3.2       Status of Project Preparation.  The proposed project was prepared
with technical assistance to CAAD under financing by the Bank (paras. 1.38,



- 28 -
1.39, 2.5, and 2.6) and the Canadian International Development Agency.  Sepa-
rate subproject management units for the Accounting Practice and the Account-
ing Education subprojects have been established; the managers and other key
personnel for each of the components are already at work.  Schedules and plans
for packaging specialist services, bidding documents including terms of refer-
ence, short lists of consultant firms, schedules and management plans for
fellowship programs have been discussed in detail and confirmed. During nego-
tiations, the Government provided draft tender documents for equipment pro-
curement, master lists of book titles for about half of the total book orders,
expanded lists of fellowship candidates, terms of reference for technical
assistance/fellowship management contracts, and draft letter of invitation for
proposals and draft short lists of firms to be invited. Construction of the
new STAN campus has been completed except for access roads.  The system test
of the government accountancy modernization program has been completed
(para. 2.6).
Procurement
3.3       As part of project preparation, equipment lists and arrangements for
consultant, fellowship and training services have been developed and found
acceptable to the Bank. Each of the three PIUs will procure in each category.
Both international and local competitive bidding will be employed for equip-
ment procurement. Procurement of technical assistance services and fellowship
and training management will, when possible, be consolidated within each PIU,
but the particular needs of each component may well cause separate arrange-
ments to be more effective. A breakdown of project expenditures by procure-
ment category is given in Table 3.1.



- 29 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREHIW? CATEGORY
(US$ -aillion)
Total cost
including all
contin-
Category of expenditure                ICB    LCB    Other/a    NA    gencies /b
Civil works                             -     4.2         -       -           4.2
(0.0)                          (0.0)
Equipment and furniture               12.5    1.7        1.0      -          15.2
(11.3)  (1.1)      (0.6)              (13.0)
Books and instructional                 -      -         4.7      -          4.7
materials                                             (4.1)               (4.1)
Development of instructional            -     6.5        1.8      -           8.3
materials                                  (6.5)      (1.8)               (8.3)
Specialist services                     -      -        33.4      -         33.4
(31.0)              (31.0)
Overseas fellowship & training          -       -       21.4      -         21.4
(21.4)              (21.4)
In-country training                     -      -        39.1      -         39.1
(31.0)              (31.0)
Institutional/students loans            -      -          -     4.2          4.2
(4.2)       (4.2)
Project-related operating costs         -      -          -    34.0         34.0
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                            12.5   12.4      101.4   38.2        164.5
(11.3)  T7-6)    (89.9)  (4.2)       (113.0)
/a   Other procurement includes:  (i) specialist services, training and
development of instructional materials; and (ii) small equipment items,
books and materials expected to be purchased through prudent shopping.
/b   Values in parentheses are estimated disbursements from loan including price
and physical contingencies. The inclusion of physical contingencies
accounts for the discrepancy between these values and the amounts shown in
Table 4.3.
3.4       Equipment would be grouped to the extent possible in packages to
facilitate bulk procurement and packages valued at US$200,000 or more
(estimated total value US$12.5 million) would be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. In comparison of bids for equipment, local manufacturers would be
given a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports
or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment packages valued at
less than US$200,000 up to an aggregate of US$1.2 million and furniture (esti-
mated totall. value US$0.5 million) would be procured through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) in accordance with Government procurement procedures acceptable



- 30 -
to the Bank. However, equipment and furniture arranged in packages not
exceeding US$30,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating to a maximum
of US$1 million equivalent could be purchased through prudent shopping on the
basis of quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under Bank procure-
ment guidelines. Prior Bank review of bidding documents and proposed contract
awards would be required for all contracts for equipment awarded on the basis
of ICB, i.e. above US$200,000, estimated to cost about US$12.5 million (82% of
the value).
3.5       Books and instructional materials (estimated value US$4.7 million)
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of quota-
tions, including price discounts and conditions of services, solicited from a
list of at least two suppliers eligible under Bank procurement guidelines.
Development of instructional materials. Selection of the authors and editors
for development of instructional materials would be done through a process of
peer review by faculty consortia from the relevant subject departments. In
order to reduce costs of delivery to schools and institutions in dispersed
areas, instructional materials will be printed in regions and each contract is
estimated to be relatively small (less than US$200,000 each). Printing of
instructional materials and their delivery (estimated value US$6.5 million)
may be procured through LCB, the procedure being used under the Textbook II
Project (Ln. 2102-IND) and the Nonformal II Project (Ln. 2355-IND), in accord-
ance with Government procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Prior
Bank review of proposed contract awards would be required for contracts
exceeding US$200,000 for development of instructional materials.
3.6       Technical Assistance and Staff Development (estimated value
US$93.9 million). The project would provide substantial programs of staff and
teacher training and of specialist services. In sum, there would be about
710 staff-years of overseas training and about 6,900 staff-years of training
in Indonesia. By component, there would be about 200 staff-years of overseas
training and about 2,600 staff-years of in-country training for accountancy
practice, and about 510 staff-years of overseas training and 4,300 staff-years
of in-country training for accountancy education (Annex 7A and 7B). In
respect of specialist services, there would be, in total, about 230 person-
years of local specialist services and about 100 person-years of foreign
specialist services for both accounting practice and accounting education. By
field of assistance, there would be about 125 person-years of local, and about
70 person-years of foreign, specialist services for accounting practice, about
80 local, and about 20 foreign, person-years of specialist services for
accounting education and about 25 local and 10 foreign consultant person-years
of specialist services for project monitoring and evaluation (Annex 8). These
are considered to be the minimum necessary requirements for implementing this
initial phase of the planned government accountancy modernization program and
related training.
3.7       The Government has learned from experience in previous projects the
desirability of contracting with agencies to acquire such important project
elements as visiting scholars, fellowship placement and management, predepar-
ture language and other skills training, and study visits. Therefore
contracts are planned to procure such services. The three PIUs would enter
into large and small contracts for most, but not all of the services.



- 31 -
Overseas fellowship and training programs would probably be separated from
local. Table 3.2 shows for each PIU the breakdown by five types of services
and may serve as an indication of the size of contracts to be secured. Con-
solidation of such contracts within the PIUs is a possibility and, if this
were to be the choice, some resulting contracts could become quite large.
However, the more likely outcome is separate contracts for components or sep-
arate contracts for types of services to be procured. Consolidation should be
attempted whenever possible to minimize the delays and expense inherent in the
selection process.  The contract for expert services related to the system
test (para. 2.5) is a case where sole-source selection is clearly appropriate
since one firm has already had three contracts (for systems analysis, design,
*         and training) under previous Bank loans in this program, and has performed
satisfactorily. Apart from this, procurement of services will employ competi-
tive proposal methods in conformity with Bank guidelines.
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT OF SERVICES BY PIU
(US$ million) /a
Project PIUs
Accounting     Accounting       Accounting
practice      education        evaluation
(MOF)          (MOEC)           (CAAD)         Total
Technical Assistance
Foreign                     11.5             2.6             1.8            15.9
Local                        4.7             7.2             0.7            12.6
Subtotal                 16.2             9.8            2.5            28.5
Staff Development
Overseas fellowships         3.3             7.3              -             10.6
Overseas training            3.8             4.9             0.2             8.9
In-country training         15.6            18.5             -             34.1
Subtotal                 22.7            30.7            0.2            53.6
Total                    38.9            40.5            2.7            82.1
/a   Excluding contingencies.
Disbursen.ents
3.8       The proposed loan of US$113 million would be disbursed over a period
of six years. Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures: (a) equipment and furniture--l00% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported, 95% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally
manufactured and 65% of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b) development of instructional materials--100Z of total expenditures; and



- 32 -
books and instructional materials other than development of instructional
materials--100l of foreign expenditures, lOOZ of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 75Z of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(c) specialist services-lO0Z of total expenditures; (d) overseas fellowships
and training-d100Z of total expenditures; (e) in-country training--80% of
total expenditures; and (f) institutional/students loans--l00Z of total
expenditures. In-country training costs would be reimbursed on the basis of
agreed unit costs which would be reviewed annually.
3.9       The estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 9) has been based on
the implementation schedule and the disbursement profiles of education and
other projects in Indonesia, modified to reflect a six-year disbursement
period instead of the average of nine years for past projects. The shorter
implementation and disbursement period is warranted by the fact that: (i)
project preparation is at an advanced stage--particularly the establishment of
project implementation units, designation of key personnel in the PIUs, sched-
ules and arrangements for project activities (para. 3.2); (ii) the proposed
project is designed to support continuation and expansion of ongoing training
programs for accounting staff and teachers, which were developed by the pre-
vious Bank-assisted projects; and (iii) the proposed project involves virtu-
ally no further civil works since construction of the new STAN campus is
nearing completion.
3.10      Withdrawal applications would be fully documented except for expen-
ditures relating to in-country training, institutional/students' loans and
contracts for goods and services each valued at less than US$100,000 equiva-
lent for which reimbursements may be made against certified statements of
expenditure (SOE). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the
PIUs and made available for review by visting Bank missions. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$60,000 equivalent or more prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.11      In order to avoid the necessity of prefinancing expenditures which
are reimbursable by the Bank and to simplify and expedite disbursement admin-
istration, the Government would establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia
to be maintained by the Directorate General of Budget, MOF. The Special
Account would be used for all local currency payments made against all dis-
bursement categories. The Bank would make an initial deposit equivalent to an
estimated four-months' disbursements (US$2 million) for local expenditures to
the Special Account upon loan effectiveness and upon confirmation of the
establishment of the Special Account. The Account would be replenished every
month or when payments reach one-half of the initial deposit,on the basis of
replenishment requests with supporting documents satisfactory to the Bank. A
monthly statement on the Special Account would be submitted to the Bank by the
Directorate General of Budget, MOF.
Project Accounts, Audits, and Reporting
3.12      Project accounts would be kept in accordance with sound accounting
practice. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that
(a) accounts and statements of expenditures for each fiscal year would be



- 33 -
prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to the lank, aud
(b) would be furnished to the Bank, together with the auditor's report thereon
as soon as possible but not later than nine months after the end of sach
Government fiscal year. Cis months after the closing date, the Covernment
would submit to the Bank a project completion report covering all project
components.
IV* PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCINC
Cost Estimates
4.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$164.5 million
equivalent, with a foreign-exchange cost of US$76.5 million, 472 of total
costs. The estimated cost by project component is sumarized in Table 4.1 and
by category of expenditure in Table 4.2. Summary costs by component and
category are given in Annex 11.
4.2       Base costs are expressed at February 1988 prices.  Training and
technical assistance costs are based on current actual unit costs of such
services in other education and training projects in Indonesia. Overseas fel-
lowship costs are estimated at an average of US$20,000 per year for degree
programs and US$15-25,000 for short-term (3-6 month) study programs. Unit
costs for local fellowships are estimated at Rupiah 6 million per year for the
S2 program and Rupiah 1.8 million per year for undergraduate courses for lec-
turer/teacher candidates. Estimates of equipment costs are based on master
equipment lists, which include primarily computers, audio-visual equipment,
calculators for training. Incremental operating costs (i.e. honoraria and
allowances, materials, administrative travel, facility rental) directly
attributable to project activities are included in the project and mount to
about 201 of project base costs. Also included in the project (but not
financed under the proposed Loan) are construction of the new STAN campus
which is nearing completion and the expenditures incurred during the past
three years for preparation of the project and not financed under earlier
projects. Duties and taxes on works, equipment and services are estimated at
about US$3 million equivalent.
4.3       The estimated foreign exchange cost of US$76.5 million representing
about 472 of the total estimated cost has been calculated on the basis of the
estimated foreign exchange percentages shown in Table 4.2. Total physical
contingencies are about 62 of base cost: 10X of base costs has been allowed
for specialist services and 5X for equipment, books, instructional materials,
training and operating costs. Price contingencies which are equivalent to
about 72 of base costs plus physical contingencies were calculated in
accordance with the implementation schedule and the following expected average
annual price increases: local-5Z for 1988 and 3.52 for subsequent years; and
foreign-lI% for 1988-90 and 3.52 for subsequent years.



- 34-
Table 4.1:  SUMOARY OF PROJECT COSTS NY COWONENT
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  as X of
-  (Rp billion) -     -   (USs *illion)         total
Accounting Practice
Government accounting                  9.4    12.6    22.0   5.7       7.6      13.3     57
Government auditing                   12.8    13.1    25.9   7.8       7.9      15.7     51
Government ed. & training (STAN)    18.8    14.3    33.1  11.4         8.7      20.1     43
Capital sarket                         2.1      3.1     5.2   1.3      1.9       3.2     60
Private sector:
Indonesian Institute of
Accountants (IAI)                  2.3     0.5      2.8   1.4      0.3       1.7     19
Other private sector                 0.5      0.1     0.6   0.3      0.1       0.4     15
Subproject management                  2.6      3.3     5.9   1.5      2.0       3.5     55
Subtotal                           48.5    47.0    95.5  29.4    28.5       57.9      49
Accounting Education
Higher education                      14.6    25.6    40.2   8.8    15.6        24.4     64
Secondary education:
Upper secondary commercial
(SMEA)                            10.4    15.3    25.7   6.3       9.2     15.5      60
Upper secondary general (SMA)       10.3    10.6    20.9   6.2       6.4      12.6     51
Nonformal education                   23.6      9.3    32.9  14.3      5.7      20.0     28
Subproject management                 11.3      2.8    14.1   6.9      1.7       8.6     20
Subtotal                           70.2    63.6   133.8  42.5    38.6       81.1      48
Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation
CAAD                                   7.0      4.6    11.6   4.3      2.7       7.0     39
Total Base Cost (Feb 1988)        125.7   115.2   240.9  76.2    69.8    146.0        48
Physical contingencies                 6.7      6.7    13.4   4.0      4.1       8.1     50
Price contingencies                   12.8      4.3    17.1   7.8      2.6      10.4     25
Total Project Cost /a             145.2   126.2   271.4  88.0    76.5    164.5        47
/a  Includes identifiable taxes estimated at-about US$3 sillion equivalent.



- 35 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  as X of
-   (Rp billion)      - -  (US$ million) ---   total
Civil works                              5.4      1.4     6.8   3.3      0.8       4.1      20
Equipment                                2.3    20.2    22.5   1.4    12.3        13.7     90
Furniture                                0.6      0.2     0.8   0.4      0.1       0.5      30
Books & instructional materials:
Books and journals                     0.7      6.1     6.8   0.4      3.7       4.1     90
Instructional materials                0.2      0.2     0.4   0.1      0.1       0.2     50
Development of instructional
materials                            8.0      4.2    12.2   4.9      2.5       7.4     35
Specialist services:
Foreign specialists                    2.7    23.5    26.2   1.6    14.3        15.9     90
Local specialists                     17.8      3.1    20.9  10.7      1.9      12.6      15
Staff development:
Overseas fellowships & training        1.6    30.5    32.1   1.0    18.5        19.5     95
In-country training                   42.3    14.0    56.3  25.7       8.4      34.1     25
Institutional/students loans:
Institutional fund                     0.6      3.2     3.8   0.3      2.0       2.3     85
Learning fund                          2.1      0.7     2.8   1.3      0.4       1.7     25
Incremental operating costs             41.4      7.9    49.3  25.1      4.8      29.9      16
Total Base Cost (Feb 1988)        125.7   115.2   240.9  76.2    69.8    146.0        48
Physical contingencies                   6.7      6.7    13.4   4.0      4.1       8.1      50
Price contingencies                     12.8      4.3    17.1   7.8      2.6      10.4      25
Total Project Cost /a             145.2   126.2   271.4  88.0    76.5    164.5        47
/a  Includes identifiable taxes estimated at about US$3 million equivalent.



- 36 -
Financing Plan
4.4       The proposed Bank loan of US$113 million would finance 70Z of the
project costs net of duties and taxes (about US$3.0 million equivalent). The
remaining US$51.5 million including duties and taxes would be provided by the
Goverrment. The proposed financing plan is shown in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IBRD
share (X)
Govern-                                 (exclusive
Category of expenditure        ment /a        IBRD        Total /a       of taxes)
Civil works                       4.2           -             4.2             0
(0.4)                      (0.4)
Equipment & furniture              1.8        12.7           14.5            90
(0.3)                      (0.3)
Books & instructional
materials                       0.5          4.0            4.5            90
Development of instructional
materials                        -           7.9            7.9           100
Specialists' services             2.2         28.1           30.3           100
(2.2)                      (2.2)
Overseas fellowship
and training                     -          20.4           20.4           100
In-country training               7.5         29.7           37.2            80
Institutional/students loans:
Institutional fund               -           2.4            2.4           100
Learning fund                    -           1.8            1.8           100
Incremental operating
costs                          32.6           -            32.6             0
Unallocated                       2.7          6.0            8.7
(0.1)                      (0.1)
Total                       51.5        113.0          164.5            70
(3.0)                      (3.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses show estimated taxes included in totals.
4.5       Budget Allocations.  Budget allocations would be made to the project
annually in accordance with an updated expenditure schedule based on the
agreed annual plan of activities, which would be reviewed and updated annually
by the Government in consultation with the Bank. During negotiations,



- 37 -
assurances were obtained that the Government would, throughout project imple-
mentation, prepare an annual plan and budget in consultation with the Bank and
carry out the project in accordance with such plan. The Covernment also
provided at negotiations preliminary budget allocations related to the
schedule of activities for the first year, 1988/89.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1       Benefits.  The benefits of the proposed project in the form of
improved public stewardship, improved planning, and capital market development
are sizable but diffuse. Significant benefits would result from each subproj-
ect. The accounting practice subproject would assist the Government to:
(a) refine and implement a first phase program of major actions to modernize
the entire government accounting system; (b) analyze and improve the opera-
tions of the several government agencies responsible for audit; (c) upgrade
the quality and increase the quantity of MOF staff training; (d) begin the
process of developing the nation's stock exchange as an important source of
investment capital; and (e) strengthen the professional organization of
accountants. The accounting education subproject would improve the quality
and quantity of accounting manpower, both through formal courses at the uni-
versity and secondary levels, and through nonformal instruction for persons
outside the regular educational structure. The evaluation and planning sub-
project would bring the results of the two operational subprojects into per-
spective and help map the Government's strategy for future actions in
accountancy and related fields. Few projects would have as broad an impact.
5.2       Risks.  The principal risk of the proposed project is related to the
size and scope of the operation--10 components implemented in two ministries
under 5 directorates-general and affecting a broad spectrum of Government and
society. This risk is reduced by the long preparation process during which
the plans of the Government in accountancy modernization were widely dis-
cussed. It is further reduced by the resolve shown by both implementing
ministries in creating strongly staffed and well-designed implementation
units. The establishment and continuation of the vital work of CAAD assisted
by the Special Consultants provides additional reassurances that this risk
will be successfully addressed.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       Agreements Reached.  During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that:
(a) a detailed program for implementation of government accountancy
modernization, including the organizational changes and government
Instructions necessary for successful implementation, would be
submitted to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1988, and would
subsequently be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.7);



- 38 -
(b) CAAD and the MOEC and MOF implementation units would be maintained
throughout the project with appropriate functions, staffing, and
resources (parar. 2.37 and 2.38);
(c) CAAD would monitor all aspects of project implementation throughout
the project, and would furnish promptly to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports thereon (para. 2.41);
(d) project accounts would be maintained, audited and submitted for Bank
review yearly (para. 3.12); and
(e)  annual plans and budgets would be prepared in consultation with the
Bank, and the project would be carried out in accordance with such
plans and budgets (para. 4.5).
Recomendation
6.2       Agreement having been reached on these matters, the project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$113 million equivalent to
the Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
five years at the standard variable interest rate.



INDONESIA
AccoL!ntancy Devekopment Protect
Orgonlzaklon  Structure d Protect Impb tentatbon Units
rMfsefd  d Stdte                r(    Urid      I
CAAD9S                      Ee~~~~~A*
C_.  C                                _______.  a
Ao      ce ctrnnomnd
Subm&C ao&          800saalr                          (ChWWvCwdtwodn                          W
i  h SocmtiWbl
Edu AN3
AClounWig Rod
l                                                            9bpxr
____ cotion ond LkMs                                                                                           Word B"- 4091



- 40 -
*mnnE
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Structure for Accounting Development In Uigher Education
Undergraduate
Accredi-     Accounting           accounting
Name of          Location             ADC        tation  faculty 1986/87 /a    student sajors
university           (city)           status       status  Total  fjmn Outside  1I581986187
Indonesia          Jakarta           Existing       Full     55    55       0       607       579
Gadjah Mada        Jogyakarta            "           "       28    28       0       810       805
North Sumatra      Medan                 "                   32    32       0       659       597
Pajajaran          Bandung             To be         "       38    38       0       770       812
established
Airlangga          Surabaya              "            "      32    32       0       312       387
Sriwijaya          Palembang           None          "       29    15      14       292       322
Brawijaya          Malang              To be      Partial   30    30        0       442       652
established
Andalas            Padang              None         None     20    15       5       563       650
Syiah Kuala        Banda Aceh            "        Partial   24    20        4       350       424
Diponegoro         Semarang              "          None     13    11       2       374       436
Riau               Pekan Baru            "           "       11    8        5       100       125
Hasanuddin         Ujung Pandang         "           "       13    10       3       305       282
Sedelas Maret      Surakarta             "           "       /b
Sam Raiulangi      Menado                           b"        b
Udayana            Denpasar              "                    8     8       0         0         0
Mulawarman         Samarinda             "            "      /b
Sudirman           Purwokerto            "           "        6     6       0         0         0
Lanbung Mangkurat  Banjarmasin           "           "       13      5      8        48        46
Total                                                  354   313     41      5.632    6,117
/a  Faculty members holding accounting degree and teaching accounting.  "Own" means principal
assignment to the university shown.  "Outside" means faculty drawn from other universities
or agencies.
/b The universities are preparing to establish accounting facilities.
Source: Directorate General of Higher Education, MOEC.



- 41 -                                   ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Developemnt in Higher Education
Degree abroad        Short course abroad           In-country
Doe-                                             Short-
Masters toral  General  Special  Refreshing    S-2   courses
Institution                   2 yrs   5 yre  -          6 months - --          2 yr.  2 months
Indonesia                       10       4        2        5          5           5       -
Gadjah Mada                     10       5        2        5          5           5       -
North Sumatra                    8       2        3         3         2           5        -
Pajadjarah                       7       2        3        3          2           5       -
Airlangga                        7       2        3         3         2           5       -
Sriwijaya                        4       1        2        2          -           5       2
Brawijaya                        7       2        3        3          2           5       -
Andalas                          4       1        2        2          -           5        2
Syiah Kuala                     4        1        2        2          -           5       2
Diponegoro                       4       -        2         2         -           5        2
Riau                             4       -        2        2          -           5        3
Hasanuddin                       4       -        2         2         -           5        3
Sedelas Maret                    4       -        2        2          -           5       3
Sam Raiulangi                    4       -        2        2          -           5       3
Udayana                          4       -        3        2          2           5       4
Other project universities       -       -        3        -          7           -       4
IKIPs                            -       -       12        -          8           -     200/a
Polytechnics                    15       -        -        -          -           5       6
Subtotal Govt.
Institutions           100       20      50        40        35          80      234
Private Unlv./SIE               25       5       15       15          -          10      10
Academies                       10       -       10        -          -          10      56
Grand Total Persons   135        25      75        55        35         100      300
Total Man-Years        270      125      38        28         18        200       57
/a Three-month training.



- 42-                             ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
ACCOUVTANCY DEVELOPHEIT PROJECT
COHHKCCIAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS (SHEA)
Co uosition of 1984 Curriculum for Business and Co _merical High Schools
Accountancy Program  Finance Cluster)
Grade/semester        Total
II     III    credit
Program            Subjects                                            T-7    V--4   5- b   hours
¢eneral program      1 Religion education                                2   2   2   2   2   2    12
2 Pon" sila morale                                  2   2   2   2   2   2    12
3 Indonesian history education                      2   -   2   -   2   -       6
4 N"tional and international history education   -   2   -   2   -   2          6
5 Indonesian language                               2   2   2   2   2   2    12
6 Health and sports education                       2   2   2   2   2   -    10
Total                                         10  10  10  10  10   8    58
Vocational Program
Vocatiomal theory   7 Mathemtics                                         4   4   4   4   -   -    16
8 English                                           3   3   4   4   4   4    22 /b
9 Introduction of Kanagement                        2   2   -   -   -   -       4
10 tconomics                                         2   2   -   -   -   -      4
11 Cooperative                                       2   2   2   2   -   -      8
_2 Typing                                           4   4   3   3   -   -    14
13 Introduction of Business                         4   4   -   -   -   -       8
14 Elementary Accounting *                          4   4   -   -   -   -       8
15 Trade and Civil Law                               2   2   2   2   -   -      8
16 Indonesian Correspondence                         3   3   -   -   -   -      6
Total                                         30  30  15  15   4   4    98
Optiomal             1 Financing Accounting *                            -   -   7   7   5   5    24
2 Cost Accounting *                                 -   -   4   4   5   5    18
3 Financial Report Analysis *                       -   -   -   -   2   4      6
4 Internal Auditing *                               -   -   -   -   2   2       4
5 Data Processing Technology                        -   -   2   2   2   2      8
6 Tases *                                                            4   4      8
7 Statistics *                                      ----44                     8
8 Enterprise Economics *                            -   -   2   2   2   2       8
9 Co _ rce and Trade Experience                     -    -    -    -    -/a -  -
Total                                          -   -  15  15  26  28    84
Grand Total                                   40  40  40  40  40  40   240
Ia   Comsrce and Trade Experience is conducted semester 5.
/b   The 22 credit hours of English language is divided:  10 in general English and 12 in business
end correspondence English.
*    Detailed curricula are provided in working papers.
Sources Directorate Ceneral of Secondary Education, HOEC.



- 43 -                         ANN   3
Page 2 of 2
I. Objectives of the Program
To give the graduates sufficient skills and professional attitudes
to work as junior assistants of accounting at the middle competency
level.
II. Competencies of the Graduates
Upon graduation the students should be able to:
1.   record all business transactions into key documents;
2.   transfer records of all business transactions into balance sheets
and main balance books;
3.   create report/balance sheet;
4.   prepare and arrange financial reports;
5.   analyze financial reports;
6.   carry out data processing for all business transactions, manually or
mechanically, for consultant services, trade and industries
(included in para. 1 to 6); and
7.   communicate in English, written end orally, within accounting
subjects.
III. Job Positions
Upon graduation, the students would be assigned within the following
fields: (1) bookkeeper, cashier or other accounting relevant jobs;
(2) general bookkeeper; (3) bookkeeping administration; (4) financial
administration and similar offices; (5) office cashier, bank cashier,
trades and other business fields; (6) money changing; (7) cash
bookkeeping and similar accounting related fields; (8) budget provision;
(9) wage/salary administration; and (10) operator of accounting machines,
calculators and computers, and other data processing.



ANNEX 4
- 44 -
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
GENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS (SKA)
Distribution of Enrollment Among Classes
and Academic Streams, 1986/87
Public               Private                 Total
Class                 Grade   Number  Hors  Ver    Number   Horz  Ver    Number   Horz  Ver
2    Z                 2    2                  X    %
Class I                10    345,691   46    38    409,966   54    37    755,657   100   37
Class II               11    283,580   47    31    316,434   53    28    600,019   100   30
Class III              12    277,303   42    31    388,606   58    35    665,909   100   33
Total               -    906,514   45   100  1,115,006   55   100  2,025,585   100  100
Class II (Grade 11)
Physical science            51,391   53    18       44,798   47    14      96,189   100   16
Bialogical science          85,641   48    30       92,034   52    29    177,675   iol1  29
Social science             136,168   44    48    174,323   56    55    310,491   100   52
Culture                     10,380   66      4       5,279   34      2     15,659   100    3
Class III (Crade 12)
Physical science            51,157   46    19       60,291   54    15    111,448   100   17
Biological science          78,269   44    28    100,306   56    26    178,575   100   27
Social science             136,803   38    49    221,825   62    57    358,628   100   54
Culture                     11,074   64      4       6,184   36      2     17,258   100    2
Notes: Horz - Percentage of total public and private enrollments.
Ver - Percentage of total enrollment by grade level.
Source: Directorate General of Secondary Education, MOEC.



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upper Secondary General Schools (SMA)
Study Program Outline
Social Science Stream: ECONOMY/ACCOUNTING
Semes-                                                               Study
Grade   ter  Subject                                                        hrs/a
II       3   INTRODUCTION TO ACCOUNTING.  History, concept and appli-           4
cations; internal and external uses
ACCOUNTANCY STAGES.  Drafting accounting cycle outline           6
including entry proofs, summarizing and reporting
ACCOUNTANCY TYPES.  Financial and management accounting;         2
public, internal and government accounting
TRIAL BALANCE.  Assets, liabilities, capital,                    6
expenses and revenues
BALANCING THE BALANCE SHEET.  Comprehension of assets,          12
debts and capital adjustments through accounting compa-
rison analysis
CODING.  Numerical, decimal, mnemonic and combined               2
coding
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.  Uses of the financial statement;           4
balance sheet; profit/loss statement
Subtotal, study hours, semester 3                          36
II       4   APPLIED ACCOUNTING (Service Company).  Entry proofs,              12
journal and ledger
TRIAL BALANCE.  Adjustment, worksheet                           14
CLOSING OF THE GENERAL LEDGER.  Booking over expenditures        6
balance to income trial statement, income balance to
profit/loss statement, private balance to capital, and
profit/loss to capital
FINAL BALANCE SHEET.  Drafting of final balance sheet            2
Subtotal, study hours, semester 4                          34
III      5   INCOME STATEMENT.  Report form, account form, balance             10
sheet presentation, capital statement, net income
TRADING COMPANY ACCOUNTING.  Definition of trading com-         26
pany, special journal transfer to ledger, service ledger
Subtotal, study hours, semester 5                          36
III      6   WORK SHEET FOR TRADING COMPANY.                                   8
SALES & COSTS.  Opening stock, closing stock, gross              8
profit, net profit
Subtotal, study hours, semester 6                          16
TOTAL STUDY HOURS, ACCOUNTING                             122
/a One Semester Credit Hour is equivalent to about 18 study hours.
Source: Directorate General of Secondary Education, MOEC.



-46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Outcome Indicators
End of project
Base 1987             target 1993
Accounting Practice Subproject
220 Government accounting implementation in
a number of agencies according to a pro-
gram to be determined after simulation
240 Goverment Auditing
BPK
Auditors                                     1,100 with modest        1,600 with
training                 comprehensive
training
Research and development                    Less than 10              35 projects on
projects                 modern audit
methodologies
and management
of control
system
5 modest                 20 guidelines
guidelines               on the appli-
cation of
government
auditing
standards
Modest audit             the devel-
manuals                  opment of
audit manuals
for each audit
organization
260    STAN
Number of instructors holding doc-          None                      5 or more
toral degrees
Number of instructors holding for-          Less than 5               40 or more
eign master degrees
Number of diploma trainees                  About 600                 3,000 /a
/a Subject to government requirements.



-47 -                                ANIU 6
va go 2 ot 3
End of project
Base 1987             target 1993
270 Capital Market
Number of companies with securities in        Less than 30              Over 50
the market
Daily transactions (securities traded)        Less than 5,000           Over 20,000
Guidelines/circuLars re financial             4                         4 revised plus
reporting and securities issuance                                       over 30 new
draft*
Staff trained overseas in accounting,         11                        S0
issuance, law and economics
Computerized data base of company             None                      In operation
reports
280 Private Sector
Number of IAI members                         About 2,000               Over 4,000
Additional Indonesian accounting              -                         17
principles
Additional Indonesian auditing                -                         12
standards
Compilation of code of ethics                                           Completed
Accounting Education Subproject
320  Higher Education
Number of doctoral degree holders             Under 10                  Over 30
teaching in university accounting pro-
grams
Number of foreign master degree hold-         About 30                  Over 100
ers teaching in university accounting
programs
Number of students enrolled in univer-        About 6,000               Over 8,500
sity S-1 accounting programs
Number of S-2 programs in accounting           1                        2



-48 -                               ANNEX 6
Pag 3 of 3
End of project
Base 1987            target 1993
330  Secondary bduc! tlon
PrIportion of SiA and SMEA accounting         Under 202                Over 902
teachers trained In modern subject
content
Nluber of students enrolled In SHEA
accounting stream:  Public                    Under 80,000             Over 100,000
Private                  Under 70,000             Over 100,000
Total                    About 150,000            Over 200,000
Number of schools using computers In
accounting institution:  Sik                  Less than 20             Over 100
SMEA                Less than 20             Over 100
340 Nonforul Educatlon
N3mber of lnstitutions offering               About 750                About 1,200
accounting trainlng
Number of participants in accounting          About 100,000            Over 120,000
training
Proportion of Instructors In account-         Less than 102            Over 802
ing who have been trained in modern
techniques



AM=E 7
- 49-                                                  ANNIE 7
_ 49 _                                   li~~~~~~~~~Tble A
Page 1 of 2
INDOKISIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVEWPFHUt PROJECT
Staff Development Program
Summary of Local Staff Dewslopu ;t Trainin  Activities
(ctaft-y r)
No. of
Component                               participants      1986/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   Total
Accountins Practice
Government Auditing
Uf:
4-day courses                         3,000             -       10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0        -        40.0
aPm:
Short courses                        10,643             -      286.5      286.5      286.5     286.5        -    1,146.0
Subtotal government auditing       13.643            0.0     296.5      296.5     296.5      296.5       0.0   1,186.0
Government Education & Training
ADC-based courses:
Seminars for internal auditors          600            1.6        1.6       1.6        1.6       1.6        -         8.0
Basic auditing                        1,500           10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0        -        50.0
Internal control                        150            0.8       0.8        0.8        0.8       0.8        -         4.0
Advanced auditing                       750            4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0       4.0        -        20.0
Co mamnication                        2,250            7.5       7.5        7.5        7.5       7.5        -        37.5
Cov. law & regulation                 2,250           12.0      12.0       12.0       12.0       12.0       -        60.0
Accounting                            1,R00            9.6       9.6        9.6        9.6       9.6        -        48.0
ludgetting                              150            0.8       0.8        0.8        0.8       0.8        -         4.0
General business                      1,650           19.8      19.8       19.8       19.8      19.8        -        99.0
Statistical sanpling                    750            4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0       4.0        -       20.0
Intro. to computers                   3,090           10.3      10.3       10.3       10.3      10.3        -        51.5
Intro. to computer audit              2,700            9.0       9.0        9.0        9.0       9.0        -        45.0
Computer audit                          390            2.6       2.6        2.6        2.6       2.6        -        13.0
Advanced computer audit               1,210            8.1       8.1        8.1        8.0       8.0        -        40.3
Value for money audit                 1,210           11.3       11.3      11.3       11.3       11.3       -        56.5
Mlgt. of audit work                     480            2.2       2.2        2.2        2.2       2.2        -        11.2
Mget. of nudit office                   480            0.9       0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0       -         4.8
Govt. policies In audit                 480            1.2        1.3       1.3        1.3        1.3       -         6.4
Course for instructors                  150            2.2       2.2        2.2        2.2       2.2        -        11.0
Computer training, STAN-staff
& instructors                           110            0.7       0.7        0.7        0.8       0.8        -         3.7
Seminars 6 prof. conferences
in Indonesia                             40            0.1       0.1        0.2        0.2       0.1        -         0.7
Upgrading courses:
Training of instructors                  25            1.3        2.0        -          -         -         -         3.3
Upgrading: New accounting stand.   16,700               -      194.8      194.8      194.8     194.9        -       779.3
Subtotal Government education
& training                       38.915          120.2     315.7      313.7     313.7      313.7       0.0   1,377.2
Total Accountinz Practices         52.558          120.2     612.2      610.2     610.2      610.2       0.0   2,563.2



_-SO-_                                                   Tbla A
Page 2 of 2
No. of
Component                               participants      1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   Total
Accounting Education
RiOher du4cation
S2 triining, instructors (2 yr..)
State universities                       80           20.0      40.0       40.0       40.0      20.0        -       160.0
Private inetitutions                     20            5.0      10.0       ;0.0       10.0       5.0        -        40.0
Teacher upgrading
State universities (2 months)            34            1.9       1.8        1.8         -         -         -         5.5
Private institutions (2 months)          66            3.8       3.7        3.7         _-                  -        11.1
IKIPs (3 months)                        200           10.0      10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0        -        50.0
Teaching career fellowships (3 yr..)    200            100.0     200.0      200.0      100.0         -        -       600.0
Seminars/workshops
Doenstic speakers                       625            1.3        1.3       1.3        1.3        1.3       -         6.3
Overseas speakers                       250            0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5       0.5        -         2.5
Subtotal higher education           1.475          142.4     267.3      267.3      161.8      36.8       0.0     875.4
SHEA
Teacher upgrading courses
Public SNEAs (4 months)                 900           60.0      60.0       60.0       60.0      60.0        -       300.0
Private SHEAa (4 months)                200           13.4      13.3       13.4       13.3      13.3        -        66.7
Training, computer ad-. (2 months)        100            8.3        -         8.3         -          -        -        16.6
Local fellowships (3 years)               200          100.0      100.0     200.0      100.0      100.0       -       600.0
Subtotal SEA                          1.400          181.7     173.3      281.7      173.3     173.3       0.0     983.3
SNA
Teacher upgrading program
PKG-instructor training (8 moe.)        104           21.3      21.3       26.7         -         -         -        69.3
PKG (8 months)                        2,352             -      210.7      386.0      542.0     429.3        -    1,568.0
Training, computer adadn. (2 moa.)        100            8.4        -         8.3         -         -         -        16.7
Subtotal SMA                          2.556           29.7     232.0      421.0      542.0     429.3        -    1.654.0
Nonformal Education
Training of mater trainer.:
Master trainers (35 days)                35            0.8       0.8        0.8        0.8       0.8        -         4.1
Instructors (35 days)                 3,610           84.2      84.2       84.2      84.2       84.2        -      421.2
Training of owners/managera:
Master trainers (25 days)                35            0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6       0.5        -         2.9
Owners/mnagers (25 days)                706           11.7      11.8       11.7       11.8      11.8        -        58.8
Training of Examin. writers:
Master trainers (25 days)                35            0.6       0.6        0.6        0.6       0.6        -         2.9
Examination writers (25 days)         1,800           30.0      30.0       30.0       30.0      30.0        -       150.0
Training of Examin. graders:
Master trainers (15 days)                35            0.6        -         0.6         -        0.6        -         1.8
Examination graders (15 days)         1,800           30.0        -        80.0         -       30.0        -        90.0
Training of supervisors:
Master trainers (25 days)               142            2.4       2.4        2.4        2.4       2.4        -        11.8
Supervisors (25 days)                   885           14.7      14.8       14.8       14.7      14.8        -       73.8
Subdistr. supervisors (25 days)         295            4.9       4.9        4.9        4.9       4.9        -        24.6
Subtotal nonformal education        9.378         180.6      150.0      180.6     150.0      180.6       0.0     841.8
Total Accounting Education         14.809          534.3     822.6   1.150.5   1.027.1       820.0       0.0   4,354.6
Total Local Training               67.367          654.6   1.434.8   1.760.8   1,637.3   1,430.3         0.0   6.917.8
Note: Some totals do not add up due to rounding.



-51-                                                    ANNEX 7
Table a
Page I of 2
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Development Progras
Summary of Overseas Fellowship/Training Progras - by Component and Year
(staff-year)
No. of
partici-
Component                                        pants      1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   Total
Accounting Practice
Government Auditing /a
Master degree program (2 years) BPK            13           -         5.0        9.0        8.0        4.0        -        26.0
Doctoral degree program (5 years) BPK           2          2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        -        10.0
Short-term study (6 months) BPK                10          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        -         5.0
Short-term study (3 months)
BPK                                         20           1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0       -         5.0
BPKP                                         50          2.5        2.5       2.5         2.5        2.5       -        12.5
Practical training - BPKP (1-2 months)         10          0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        -         1.3
Practical training - BPK  (1-2 months)          3          0.1        0.1        0.1         -          -         -         0.4
Study visits - BPK (2 weeks)                   40          0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        -         1.5
Subtotal                                     148          7.2       12.2      16.2       15.1        11.1       -        61.7
Government Education & Training
Master degree program (2 years)                45           -        15.0       30.0       30.0       15.0        -        90.0
Doctoral degree program (5 years)               5          2.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0       3.0       25.0
Refresher course (6 months)                    10          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        -         5.0
Short-term study (3 months)                    10          0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5       -         2.5
Short-term seminars (2 weeks)                  20          0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        0.3        -         1.5
Practical training (1-2 months)                 3           -         0.1        0.1        0.1         -         -         0.4
Subtotal                                      93          3.8      21.9       36.9       36.9       21.8       3.0      124.4
Capital Market
Short-term study - practical training
on capital market guidelines and
legislation                                 120          2.9       3.8        3.6         3.3       2.0        -        15.6
Total Accounting Pract!ce
Master degree                                  58           -        20.0       39.0       38.0       19.0        -       116.0
Doctoral degree                                 7          4.0        7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0       3.0       35.0
Short courses                                 296          9.9       10.9       10.7       10.3        8.9        -       50.7
Total Accounting Practice                    361         13.9      37.9        56.7      55.3        34.9       3.0     201.7



ANNEX 7
- 32 -                                                     Table E
Page 2 of 2
No. of
partici-
Component                                        pants      1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   Total
Accounting Education
Higher Education
Naster degree program (2 years)
State universitiea                          100 )         -        35.0      85.0       100.0       50.0       -       270.0
Private universities                         35 )
Doctoral degree prograe (5 years)
State universities                           20 )       10.0      25.0        25.0       25.0       25.0      15.0     125.0
Private untversities                          5 )
Short-term study (General 6-_onths)
State universities                           50 )        75         75         7.5        7.5        75         -       37.5
Private universities                         25 )
Short-term study (Specialized 6-months)
State universities                          40 )         5.0       7.5         5.0        5.0        5.0       -        27.5
Private universities                         15 )
Advance course (6 months)
State universities                           35          2.5        5.0        5.0        2.5        2.5       -         17.5
Subtotal                                    325         25.0       80.0       127.5     140.0       90.0       15.0     477.5
SMEA
Short-term study (3 months)                    40          2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        -        10.0
SNA
Short-term study (3 months)                    58           -          -         7.3        7.3         -         -        14.5
3-month study tour for supervisors             28          7.0         -          -          -          -         -         7.0
Subtotal                                      86          7.0         -         7.3        7.3         -         -        21.5
Total Accounting Education
Master degree                                 135           -        35.0       85.0      100.0       50.0        -       270.0
Doctoral degree                                25         10.0       25.0       25.0       25.0       25.0      15.0      125.0
Short courses                                 291         24.0       22.0       26.8       24.3       17.0        -       114.0
Total Accounting Education                   451         34.0       82.0      136.8      149.3       92.0      15.0     509.0
Planning. Monttoring & Evaluation (CAAD)
Overseas study tours I month
(8 times/yr for 5 years)                       40          0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7        0.6        -         3.4
Total Overseas training
Master degree                                   193           -        55.0      124.0      138.0       69.0        -       386.0
Doetoral degree                                  32         14.0       32.0       32.0       32.0       32.0      18.0      160.0
Short courses                                   627         34.6       33.6       38.1       35.2       26.4        -       168.0
Total Overseas Fellowship/Trainins          852         48.6       120.6      194.1     205.2       127.4      18.0     714.0
/a  Overseas degree program  for RFKP are included under the Government Education and Training component.
Note: Some totals do not add up due to rounding.



D CN:r
MIECAL ASSS:U  PEXM*
9uqnzy of lTal sd Foreign %w4aliut Sepia - by Ccmnet Id Year
T.ccal :,eia1Ast SerVind                          Foreign Oia1ist Smric
Field of Auistamce               1988/89 1989/90 1990/9iO19942M 992/93 1993/94  tal    98/89 1989/90 1990/9¶99r17 992/93 W3/94  Toal
A. ~ ,CIV    P_LC
1. Gam         hacm
mt accmtyir                          0.2   12.2  14.2  12.2   12.2            50.8      0.7    9.2   8.4    8.2    8.2            34.6
-elustio of _ucamemw for                                                                          0.6   0.6    0.6   0.6    0.6              2.9
fiealyutem dip……-
su*total Gmeuit tccamtitg                       0.2   12.2  14.2  12.2   12.2   0.0   50.8        1.3   9.8    9.0    8.8    8.8   0.0   37.5
2. Govmnt Auditim
Ds_mdaicat of saud   k11ad suadit
otudazda.policim.  _ _,tklokiau. oto                                                    *       0.5    1.0   0.5    -       -      -       2.
ShDrt t                                                                                         0.3   0.3    0.2   0.2    0.2    -         1.0
GLUM        e  (15  wja:t)                   2.0    2.0    2.0   2.0   2.0    -       10.0
- JLdayt udsith (  'nitiw (8)
-Stay. tuw=b, embdi, sdmr
oo     m G      _t 1Auit                                                                         -      1.0   l.0    -       -      -       2.0      W
Ih,  d _                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~- 1.0   1.0    -  -  -  2.0
9mrt tm t~a ina. M.1ml                                                                          -      -       -      1.0    1.0    -      2.0
pls~.d         _ 1~of axlituiar. * ,
of sadie tuu3i_ . pzIaa
ktota  G-n t Auiftivg                          2.0    2.0   2.0   2.0    2.0   0.0   10.0        0.8   3.3    2.7    1.2    1.2   0.0   - 9.0
3.    _      _Matle  aid !"la     W
1E~~.I. mnmues     my ,r~ i4n.
wzd2d  p_~z   aylih
jgg  tama                                                                   1.0    1.0   1.0    1.0    1.0    -       5.0
~4~zahdz~ pr=rm 3wi.stan aziti4                                                                   0.5   0.5    1.0   0.5   0.5    -          3.0
_pr     la. wnri-                                                                         0.5    0.5    1.0   0.5    0.5    -        3.0
abtotal tGa't lestim  and Trinfh                0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      2.0    2.0   3.0    2.0    2.0   0.0   11.0
4. 
0.5   0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.0    2.5       0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    -       -       0.3
0s4    -_     - 14t  _             -      04      0.2   0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    -        0.8
ditto     lue0.4    -                        -      -             -      0.4
ditto     Iznuae               -      0.4    _-                   -      0.4
ditto     Tofl Hiahusy         -      0.4    -      -      -      -      0.4
ditto     Tolec. Svice.        -      0.0   0.4    -       -      -      0.4
ditto     Otlir IrA ntr        -      0.0    0.4   0.4   0.4    -        1.3
Guidelirm (r)                                                                            *
Aw: gDit                                                                                  *
4islati  S      /                             0.2   0.2    0.2   0.2    -        -      0.7
sitotal Cqpital Mbiket                          1.5   1.5   1.5    1.1   0.9   0.0    6.5         0.3    0.3   0.3    0.3    0.2   0.0    1.2
Nbte: 9  totals do not add u dtue to r  -dig. * not espresas  in perm-yw|r.
.   _  .  ..                         .   .     .                                                       . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AOLM     MMMM  Pro
ULL ASI   PKIHM
92auy of lcal ad Foreign Seeialist Servieu - by lcpoist aId Yenr
To=al Spe4Ia    Services                           Fozeip cw4I41it Servi5
Field of Anuitmtre                1988/89 1989/90 1990/9U'199li1992/93 1993/94 Total   198/8J9 1989/90 1990/9IM/991992/93 1993/94  Total
5. Private Ssetor
-uee      t or ml
DeueloIm.of kccut&kulit Stbmle                 3.1    1.4    1.6    1.9    1.1    -      9.1
ftmitori  ofqyLicatia of                       -      0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    -      0.4
Stms
Delp.of  P g             B                     3.5    3.5    1.7    -      -      -      8.6
ditto  cw~t~mnrt 1&i~atixn PrcnrEiu  1.4    0.9    -      1.3    1.9    -      5.5
ditto Profinukmal m4port eaterlala    0.1    0.6    0.6    0.1    0.1    -     1.6
ditto  Q.ulity Cx*mto polikiea       -      0.0    -      0.1    -      -      0.1
ditto Code of Etbice                 0.2    -      -      0.6    0.5    -      1.3
ditto P4torting for &011 BU1iMNG     -      1.3    1.9    -      -      -      3.2
-Other Private S tor
Deurelopi. of Izutitutimuizati of              1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    -      6.5
Business RPmo.  
Deamopuof btr.InfomitiiZ  System               -       -      6.5    -      -      -      6.5
sttotal Private Swtor                           9.6    9.1   13.8    5.4    5.0    0.0   42.8       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0      0.0
6. Mgtof ACo==talR Prwtce 
-mu anB,N!R=2%                 1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    -       5.0      1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    9.0
oodin. of DeAme's Fe1aUubp ad                   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    -       5.0      0.4    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2     2.0
1.0    1.0    1.0    -      -      -      3.0
subtotal M et  of Acourtixg Practice            3.0    3.0    3.0    2.0    2.0    0.0   13.0       1.9    1.9    1.8    1.8   1.P    1.7    11.0
SLBUiiL .     'JNr1?  PRA1(C                        16.3   27.7   34.4   22.6   22.0    0.0  123.2      6.2   17.2   16.8   14.0   13.9   1.7    69.7
B. A0fJIT?C EDUGATICN
1. IiiRhr Bhxwatim
accuneYorestors ro assist S2 progran
UT                                                                                      -      2.0    2.0    2.0    -       -       6.0
tflm                                                                                    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    -       10.0
-Plaement of FeUlaships                                                                             1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    -       5.0
-Lal Visiting Professorr
Teachig Assistance                   0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    -      1.4
7hosis Spn and hnitatior.            -      -      -      0.1    -      -      0.1
-Cc3xuter Assisatce                             0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    -       1.3
-asesarh al Studies
Tetocks                                                                          *
UlA huinaticw                                                                    *
9wly and Distribution of             0.2    0.2    -      -      -      -      0.4
accounimt  Mmnc.er
updating of Qzrnculun                1.6    1.7    -      -      -      -      3.3
Account. Edm. Design at Diplei.      2.5    6.7    1.2    -      -      -      10.4
N'br-fomanl
kcconting Sysa                       2.5    2.5    -      -      -      -      5.0
Auditing                             -      2.5    2.5    -      -      -      5.0
Accounting Mmunemt                   -      -      2.5    2.5    -      -      5.0   _ _                                           -
sittotal Rigber Eucation                        7.3   14.1    6.8    3.2    0.6    0.0   31.9       3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    3.0    0.0    21.0
_bte:  ocan totals do not odd tq di~ to r~an1ing. * not expressed in pezsoc-yeerc
Nbte: Sce totalB do ncot add up due to roundirg. *nDt expresse in persa-rw.                                                                               F



LHWAL ASISM  PROIW
9_nz  of TL    and Fo eiW    4a1I4t Servi  - by (xim et  l Y
Loca  oaist Serview                             Yollip SpsmIalit Servinm
Field of Aasateme                1988/89 2989/90 1990M i?199192/93 1993/94 Total  1988/89 1989/90 1990/9fliA992/93 1993/94
2. NmfDfou1 3kcatig
-urvl p.oz FEW-for ?mz1  Ammint1n                                                       *
-         ~~~ditto    i.4-aaisS
-UrA dssitto                                   3.3   6.7   5.0   3.3   1.7    -        20.0
q|>e itudi&                                   0.2   2.0   0.4   0.0   0.0    -         2.5
-De. of Tranizg Desnign iNteral                0.3   0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0    -         0.6
_-Veo1mt of Ibtiaal HiOW=                                                                *_
otal Nbifozml B&r.&t4oi                        3.8   8.7   5.7   3.3   1.7   0.0  23.1          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
3- Y_tM of 1&" FhWAt4
L--- rFiim P rrq§i t8twtiX            2.5   1.7   1.7   1.7   0.8    -         8.3
-ewje t   _~-mt                                2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   1.3   1.3  12.5
-Pzcuntt wEtat                                 2.0   1.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    -         5.0
Projet hxiti%                                 -      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8
mltotal 1 _t of k wCmtuS  gtati                7.0   5.8   4.8   4.8   2.8   1.4  26.7          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
SMCL AMitG MUM7N                                  18.0  28.6  17.3  11.4   5.0   1.4  81.7           3.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   3.0   0.0   21.0
C. E:rJB  MIDInU   AD  W      I (CAAD)
C.  cJoCt ~Di wITGI  hM) 3JAUP2NCu   C                                                         0.5    0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    -          2.5
tiplR_rtal                           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.5   5.5          0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.5    5.0
-Sb*        1  lst       4                     0      0.5   1.5   0.5    -       -      2.5
y0.5   0.8   1.3    0      -      -      2.5
of tual^,/rtias                          0.0   0.6   0.1    -       -      -      0.7
wStit of Fretice of o X   z Syutm             0.0   0.6   0.1    -       -      -      0.7
-SbmI ,to be desidi later                     1.0   2.0   3.0   2.0   2.0    -        10.1
-pertu forromimiw                                                                               0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    -       0.7
-~esia1 cuiltuntn                                                                                   0. 2    0.3   0.2         0.3 0.3 0.3    1.7
U31UtL aYD                                         2.6   5.4   7.0   3.5   3.0   0.5   22.0          1.3   2.0   1.8   2.0   2.0   0.8    9.9
lML . W3IASLh 9I(                                 36.9  61.7  58.7  37.5  30.1   1.9  226.9    10.5  24.1  23.6  21.0  18.9   2.5  100.5
- S                                                              =                     - _  _  _  .   _   _
Ibte2 Sml totals do est dd 1 due to zudi7.  * mt _1na  In pezwor.
e'lb
w



- 56 -                              ANEX 9
INDONESTA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ sillion)
Indonesia disbursement
IBRD fiscal year                    Disbursements             profiles (x) /a
and semester                Semester  Cumulative   x   Education  All sectors
1989
lst (Jul 1988-Dec 1988)        2.0         2.0       2        0           1
2nd (Jan 1989-Jun 1989)        2.0         4.0       4        1           2
1990
lot (Jul 1989-Dec 1989)        4.5         8.5       8        3          6
2nd (Jan 1990-Jun 1990)        4.5        13.0      12        6          11
1991
1st (Jul 1990-Dec 1990)       11.5        24.5      22       10          18
2nd (Jan 1991-Jun 1991)       11.5        36.0      32       17          25
1992
1st (Jul 1991-Dec 1991)       15.8        51.8      46       25         34
2nd (Jan 1992-Jun 1992)       15.8        67.6      60       34         43
1993
1st (Jul 1992-Dec 1992)       15.7        83.3      74       45         52
2nd (Jan 1993-Jun 1993)       15.7        99.0      88       55         61
1994
1st (Jul 1993-Dec 1993)       10.0       109.0      96       63         69
2nd (Jan 1994-Jun 1994)/b      4.0       113.0     100       70          77
/a These profiles represent the initial six years of an average disbursement
period of nine years.
/b The loan is expected to close on June 30, 1994.



- 57 -
ARM 10
IHMNMA~~~~~~~~~~
Nr
hmntbmg Pzuwtfr Sipoject
esWM4   Smbsoule
BakFP                       196  I  1s    s 1990 I  1991 I  1992   I193  I 1994  11995
CalAarYsar               87  I  16   I  16   1  1990  1  1991  1  1992   I193  I  1994
GM Fiucal YTear              /881 y988  I 19/90 I 1990/91 I 1991/    1992/93 I I9934 1 1994/ 5
L.OW Procmuizg*4388
T~ 
Bord presaBtim                            *(05/88)
lzetd  loan ffectivuum                      *(09/88)
Project caloetir_                                                                             *(l1_ 3)
jPrect cus ig date                                                                                *(06/I 4)
AMNMG PPACnE
t&qpojt l   astaff
-Ftlishut & q~mii* 
sultuati sicets * 
. nwot:s ~~~~~~*   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   ***
Gavent Acut:
Prpar. for field tea*t
-Syt omtett
- P m  - t a t k   mu   iu l                   _     _     _     _    _     _     _    _     _     _
uslntatwn  Of elst      i                 *
Goverenxt hxAitmt:
. ee at  of UWAing                              I                            _____
-Staff tnU%                                    *
-Tulmkal. matasuxe                             * 
Gvn t    EAw     (SEl:
tP:~~~~~~~-
Pid oa *_*w
DeliveryI *.lI
-Staff Dmlut  P_
Selecti of fllm                       _I
U 1talt  'eu                                  A*. -
ADC c gs* A
Up coum                                                                                                         I
I ~~~~~~*-*  *_*A
l l l l l l I l                                                     I
-TcliolAusistme re i1iSe1iz                   A * 
^;        ring & oda!fti                  I        I         I        I
Private SectorJ
-Develqpmt of acC.at. atandard
-Dee       of adit sta_a*d*
__ ~~                                           . *    I                        I I
lIidumtr. Inf      tem-
of educ. p                                  
Pk     for Mal __*___



- 58 -
AM 10
B
ADOM   DWJnMAW PW!MC
Accounting Mition  uipject
>l^si ~Schedule
Bak iY                      1988   19681   19901   19911   19921   199. 1 1994  11995
Calar Year               87  | 968        19W |  19901   1991          1992      1993     1994
Om Fimcal Year           1987/881 1988/68 I  6/90  1990/91  1991/92 1 199V93 I 1993/94  1994/A 5
lIm Processig 
Lom neotiatiam                           *tO/88)
Board prentatin                           *(5/88)
Thcpted loan effectivem                     *(09/88) 
Project cc letimn                          I                                                   *(12/!3
Pjoect closirg date                                                                              *(06/! 4)
AOMUNC  MNUrIQN
t  &appoint key stff              *(11/87                     _______________
-Etlinhailt & apere,ticnm                                             . .
-vluatio  reqorts                                    *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *
Tenimca Assistace.
Cmbined Fellowhip. specialist
services study tour magement:
I. srtlistAi% etc.                    *-k
-letter of imvitatim*
PreDartic  of proposal
of prposal_
-Berk reviaN
gotiations
Contrat signi                                   *
-COtract ewuton                                   *,
Teacnical assistaire pr_grus                I                                                        *
not covered by coabined ccmtract
Phws4icaFarilities
-contract sivt:
-Cotract er ,Aution
Estsblishd,nt of Funds
Institutional Ftnd:
Anuncemnsrt*-IIIIIIII
-Invitation to apply                  *-*          7 *J            **        *_*
Balustiz                                  _         _       *          _         r          
an   pt                       |   fr l~*      *    I   *       *         *       
:enrtt~*- *-* I                                           III    
App1icaticn                                   __eriod  *-*
-n pa t/repyent
FEtablishnmt of 3 new ADCs
Select & appoint key staff               a
Spac ren,tal                                 *
}-blisbet & op e                           |  -                  . 
Egtablisenmt of Acc.  fo. Ceters                                                              
Ewwxge of materials                              *
Writing of bodrs & research
..                                                      I 



- 59 -
mm 10
m   -  m
D.t                 n            I an      1   1990        1   I   199    39   I   1   11995
,~~~a                  .m               I.I9              11_1   I  39   I  199   Io 1992  I  393  I 99 
am Fiml To                                   1911/"9  I 0I/9 1 191    I I3993 I 1993/9'1
tor      lon 
Eam ProcmiztatIm3
Pmect clam    daO(w6 
-MR for e *t                                          17
_    > ,wliti  of      _                   I.t
&meoidatim of p_-
;Ats camatwul                                          llllll
slect & pont __                                         F I     I         I         I1*
Project coqAy       |  4m  bl* 



A-MSW    DEVffQRI1 PR
Poisect Cts by                       and by Ocpb t
MU N  UXA1Q                           RAKIC
h        Es1G W  WZ
P diwte Sator                         secway                                  ___t___
S cdzy  S--mOdmy                        A y sc
Glmvnlt ztitute    Otbrr                                   Ca 1rcal GAml @AEA
Grveut Goant  :jati    Cpital               of      Privte   i apcjut    ilier  ScJwU    S1rb1a   1Spmj.   Dw
________________________    hAccezit   Aditft    &Trad,i  lifket  A=mtwts Swtor  VAtint  FdUdiati    (NW             (SW      Mtatkm  FamD         _      _n_t
Chdlwikn                             -         0.1       6.7        -         -                  -          -         -         -         -         -          -          6.8
a                                   0.2        2.4        1.4     0.4        0.1        -       0.2        1.9      10.6       4.8        -        0.4        0.1        22.5
Yemi1tue                             -         0.1        0.1       -         -         -         -        0.1       0.3       0.3        -         -          -          0.8
Bckis & instzizd   mstei-I
DO1w ad j um-a                    0.1        1.1        1.6      0.2                                      0.9       1.3      0.6      0.9                   0.2         6.8
Izwtzi~tkau1 merials               -          -         0.3                                               -         -         -         -               _               0.3
Dmelop. of hwtnttwmu  mteials    -           0.1        0.9       -         -         -         -         0.4       2.7      5.4      2.8          -         0.0       12.2
Sbtoul                          0.1       1.2        2.8      0.2        -         -         -         1.3       4.0       6.0     3.7          -         0.2        19.3
ffr bliHxt VoiC"w:
Posd q:iia3ata                    10.9       2.4        2.7      0.4        -         -       2.7         4.3       -         -         -          -         2.9       26.2
Iala qxk; 1;                      3.5        0.5        0.1      1.1       2.0      0.6       0.1         4.4       -         -       6.3         1.3        1.2       2D.8
Subtal                         14.3       2.9        2.8      1.5        2.0      0.6      2.7         8.6       -         -       6.3         1.3        4.1       47.1         1
Staff deel t 
0ntimems fMlawbps                  -         1.3        4.2       -         -         -         -        12.0       -         -         -          -         -         17.5
Oveu  tmiS                        0.4        3.0        0.9      1.8        -         -         -         5.5       1.0      1.6        -          -         0.4       14.6
IV- gm tr4t2imR                   4.5       10.0        6.4      0.0        -         -       2.4 /a      5.0      8.0       6.4    11.2           -        0.1        53.9
Dew.of ait  ill1 & stwAlds         -         2.4         -        -                             -          -        -         -         -                     -         2.4
Subtot                          4.8      16.7       11.5      1.9        -         -       2.4        22.5       9.0       8.0    11.2          -         0.5       885
Imtitutitdm  fuAd                                       -         -         -         -                        -              -       3.8          -         -          3.8
i   fid                            -          -          -        -         -         -         -          -        -         -       2.9          -         -          2.9
aMotul                          -          -          -         -        -         -         -          -         -        -        6.6         -          -         6.6
Inmcd           igti cats:
_zx~rinita1 &is  -3 mes           0.5        0.3        0.5      0.1       0.2        -       0.1         2.9       -         -         -         2.5        1.3        8.4
Ikterials                         0.7        1.3        1.0      0.4       0.1        -       0.1         1.8       1.8       1.8       -         3.5        0.4       12.7
;nsixtztive tuvl                  0.2        0.3        0.2      0.1        0.2       -       0.2         0.5        -        -         -         3.2        0.3        5.1
nyIiUty rrita l                              0.6        0.1       -         -         -         -         0.7                           -         0.3        1.7        3.4
Oamkatiwq. *flity etc.            0.0        0.1        0.0      0.1       0.1        -       0.2         0.0                 -         -         2.9        0.1        3.5
Tm-=:=  perticipva  caltriUutim    -          -         4.5        -         - -      -         -                             -       5.2                    - -        9.6
Project preparati-L               1.1         -         1.6      0.7       0.2        -         -             -               -         -                    3.0        6.5
Sbtotal                         2.5       2.6        7.8      1.3       0.8        -       0.6         5.9       1.8       1.8      5.2       12.4        6.7        49.3
Ttnl bre coat OCusua  1988)        22.0       25.9       33.1      5.2       2.8      0.6       5.9        40.2     25.7      2D.9    32.9         14.1       11.6      240.9
kyndrAd coutl ¢wlciw                1.8        1.4        1.4     0.3        0.2      0.1       0.4        2.4       1.3       1.0      1.6         0.8       0.6        13.4
Prlce ccuSti ienE                   1.7        2.0        2.0     0.3        0.2      0.1       0.4        2.6       1.4       1.7      2.7         1.3       0.8        17.1
htl project coat                   25.5       29.4       36.5      5.8       3.3      0.7       6.7        45.2     28.3      23.6    37.3         16.2       13.0      271.4 
/a Puefqarture tn=nt  for overs   felloap/train*  cwdidates iuder tih Aixa-t1g Prwatice mbproject.                                                                               _
Note. Sce totUl do wot ad up due to mI;D4g.



- 61 -
ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
ACCOUNTANCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Salected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1   Study on Government Accounting and Auditing Modernization in
Indonesia: Maior Findings on the Existing Budgeting. Accounting.
and ReRorting System, The SGV Group, October 1984
A.2   Radius Prowiro, Reforming Financial Management in Government: The
Indonesian Agenda in International Journal of Government Auditing,
January 1987
A.3   Indonesia: Public Investment in Renelita IV, World Bank report
number S849-IND, December 27, 1985
A.4   Indonesia. Strategy for Economic Recovery, World Bank report
number 6694-IND, May 5, 1987
A.5   Joys and Tribulations of a Female Auditor of the State Audit
Bureau (BPIO, translation of article appearing in BPK's quarterly
staff journal for July/August 1987
A.6   Indonesian Accounting Principles, Indonesian Institute of
Accountants, December 22, 1984
A.7   Capital Markets Factbook, 1986
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Accountancy Development Project, Ministry of Finance, and Ministry
of Education and Culture, November 1987
B.2   Accounting Education DeveloRment Program, Ministry of Education
and Culture, October 1987
C. Working Papers
C.1   Public SMEAs Selected for Upgrading under the Project
C.2   Accounting Education at the Upper Secondary Level
C.3   Project costs



I
MA SECTIONX



BRD 20514
.  lgs,    \THAILAND' 1it                                                                         1i8 120                                          1381                     1W                       l2C
SBanda Aeh"                                                                                                                        PHILIPPINES '
13                   MALAYSIA                      r_/;a  Sea                    BRUNEI                        /
(MeCian   >   '   g   \           oJ qif r~~~~~~~~~~~~~._._   F._.                             , ,!   ) ~~~~~~~~I N D O  N E 5 I A
MALAYSIA ~ ~  ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~        ~          NDNEI
7                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~1
12                          /                                  MALAYSIA   /-/.; ,Priis
. ,, >SINGAPORE                1\                                 7 -/  -%  P_w.  ,d 20
vg:__nbarti_\          " -   ]  *_   >  ,HALMAHERA             ht0ii000I Ioo               0.
19
0',             -d-:<-                                         Ponl..'n.ku0                                   SS;; a4n;      18
0 D~P K                                               K A L I                 N
6  LAh1NGKA                                                14                                                                        ANA '    4    .    .                        ~-                                 1 3 5'25
-li-  S SUMATERASELAT'A   \  {        >                                                                              ' 2, liP'1,   /u"
oat
D. K.I. JAKARA                                         'JN                                                       0             SUA WEt                                          7 
JAWA BARA UTAR0Nn
JAVV                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAN JAYA
t     J  ALiATNTAN TEGA          7asn 8                                                            16 -                           21 _                                 GEOAii  A
6 DI. YOYANTAN ELTA                                    6Lmar)3                                    1 
1 JA WATiM       _       n                                                                                                                                      b ..  I-                                         26o
6 LAMPUNG                                                                                    --                                   Bk.r          -                                                               26
,BE GKULU6
5'    SU LA WE SI ASE    L A T A N     4~.x>en       
g  IAU                                                                    Java  se                     UJen...d-ge                II
2 SAMWI  TENGGARA                                   1                                                                                                                                   /_
2S SUMATERA BARAT                                   JA.!Rf                                                                                         Banda  Sea
1 2  UMATERAUTARA
D2 IRIACEH
2 KA7IUMANTAN wARAT                                                  3 ,  ,AiLOA
15KALIMZANTAN TENGAH                                Oel,           3M-R
15KAIL IVA TAN SELATAN                                   ). n              I
17KA.IMANTAN TIMUR                                                                                                                               I
S8 1,LAWESI TENGAH                                  2                 '                                 SAUMBAWA 
SULAWES UTARA                                            Y.I k.ORES
21 SULAWWESS SELDSATAND0                                                                                                            ~-~0                                              10      0       0      0      0 
20'     SULAWS TENGGARATIU(                                                                                                                                                                         LS
25 MALUKU                              ~                                                                           1MA       'A     KeP.oo7   ,  27                             0  lo  200 S00  400 S00  b00  700  *00
26 IRIAN JAYA                S..d.m..o,ddBA                                                                                  24oc.vB*thAee  ~-
27 TIMOR TIMUR             ecV                                                            1                        1ILOMETERS
,00-                     105'                      118'                      1181                     1201                     120'                      1 IIII                    130'                     1481
JANUARY 1988



