Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H419-0-HT 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(
Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness 
 and Response Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 7, 2008  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H419-0-HT 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated October 7, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
HAITI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,000,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
through MARNDR, carry out: (i) the technical implementation of Part 1 
and 4 of the Project; and (ii) the overall coordination of Project 
implementation; 
 
Page  4
2
(b) 
through MSPP, carry out the implementation of Part 2 of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
through MARNDR, in collaboration with MCC, MSPP and other 
selected stakeholders specified  in the OM, carry out the implementation 
of Part 3 of the Project; 
 
all in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall have entered into a Fiduciary Management Contract 
with a fiduciary agent satisfactory to the Association for purposes of the 
implementation of Parts1.1, 1.3, 2, 3 and 4 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, shall have been 
adopted by MARNDR on behalf of the Recipient.  
 
(c) 
The MOU, satisfactory to the Association, shall have been entered into 
between MARNDR and MSPP to allocate among them responsibilities 
for Project implementation. 
 
(d) 
An annual work program for the first Project Year containing interim 
arrangements for the environmental management of the Project, 
including the disposal of carcasses thereunder, shall have been prepared 
by MARNDR, satisfactory to the Association, on behalf of the Recipient. 
 
4.02. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association
’s approval of the 
Financing which expires on January 14, 2010. 
 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient (other than those providing for payment obligations) 
shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince 
Republic of Haiti 
Facsimile: (509) 22 99 17 32 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  6
4
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Raymond A. Joseph 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is
 to support the implementation of the Recipient’s 
National Plan intended to minimize the threat posed to humans by highly-pathogenic 
avian influenza (HPAI) infection and other zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and 
respond to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
:
Preserving Animal Health
The carrying out of activities relevant to the investigation, surveillance, prevention and 
preparedness with respect to any HPAI outbreak in the territory of the Recipient, through, 
inter alia
:
1.1 
the achievement of a reduction in related risks for peasant and commercial 
poultry production, including cock-fight poultry;  
 
1.2 
the design and implementation of a compensation mechanism for assisting in 
restoring productive assets of affected poultry producers; and 
 
1.3 
the strengthening of relevant institutional capacity for early detection and 
response, through, 
inter alia
,
the containment of  risks related to in-country 
movement of poultry, improved laboratory diagnostics and the use of an 
improved national information system in relation thereto. 
 
Part 2
:
Preserving Human Health
The carrying out of activities related to the prevention, detection and mitigation of the 
effects of HPAI on humans, including, 
inter alia
:
2.1 
the establishment of epidemiologic surveillance and early response mechanisms 
in the event of an outbreak;  
 
2.2 
the implementation of strategic measures for preparedness in accordance with 
selected international norms in respect thereof; 
 
2.3 
the building of capacity of relevant staff of MSPP in: (i) surveillance systems and 
data, including simulations; and (ii) preventive and mitigation measures in the 
event of an HPAI outbreak; and  
 
2.4 
the carrying out of HPAI awareness campaigns to increase same in selected 
MARNDR and MSPP staff, and the public at large.  
Page  8
6
Part 3
:
IEC Campaigns
The carrying out activities relevant to:  
 
3.1 
ensuring public awareness of the HPAI for selected groups, including vulnerable 
groups, with a view to promoting behavioral change, adoption of bio-safety 
procedures and the establishment of reporting habits and mechanisms;  
 
3.2 
the  strengthening of the institutional capacity of selected staff of MARNDR and 
MSPP to carry out communication strategies in the context of the prevention and 
mitigation of HPAI, including  therein, the provision of recommendations on 
potential investments in infrastructure and institutional reforms advisable in said 
context; and  
 
3.3 
the development of synergies with NGOs and other pertinent stakeholders active 
in rural communities. 
 
Part 4
:
Project Administration
The provision of support to MARNDR for ensuring the coordination, monitoring, 
supervision and evaluation of the Project, including with respect to the procurement and 
financial management aspects in relation thereto.  
Page  9
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1.
 
The Recipient, shall, for purposes of the Project, establish and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation in MARNDR, a Project coordinating unit 
which shall: 
 
(a) 
have its staff appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, each one of them to have at all times 
during Project implementation, terms of reference, functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(b) be 
responsible, 
inter alia
,
for: (i) the field coordination of Project 
activities; (ii) the coordination and reporting arrangements in respect of 
the Project, and (iii) the preparation of consolidated annual work 
programs for MARNDR and MSPP to be submitted to the Association 
for its approval; and 
 
(c) 
remain under the authority of MARNDR and report periodically to the 
minister in charge thereof, as specified further in the OM.  
 
B. 
 Memorandum of Understanding
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Part 2 of the Project, the Recipient shall make 
part of the proceeds of the Financing available to MSPP under a  memorandum 
of understanding (MOU) to be entered into between the MARNDR and MSPP, 
under terms and conditions approved by the Association.  
 
2. 
MARNDR and MSPP shall exercise their respective rights under the MOU in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that the MOU is not assigned, 
amended or abrogated in any of its provisions.
 
C. Implementation 
Document 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall, through MARNDR, adopt an operational manual 
satisfactory in form and substance to the Association consisting of 
different schedules, setting forth, respectively, rules, methods, 
Page  10
8
guidelines, specific development plans, standard documents and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the following: 
 
(i) 
(A) the detailed description of Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; and (B) the institutional arrangements in 
respect thereof and the ensuing respective delineation of 
institutional responsibilities for the Project activities; 
 
(ii) 
(A) the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, and disbursement procedures, including all pertinent 
standard documents and model contracts in relation thereto; and 
(B) the institutional and contracting arrangements in relation 
thereto; 
 
(iii) 
the plan for the training, workshop and capacity building 
activities under the Project;  
 
(iv) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the 
Project; and 
 
(v) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that MARNDR, MSPP, MCC and all 
 
stakeholders identified in the Operational Manual, carry out the Project 
 
in accordance with the Operational Manual. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any 
one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time
 
in
 
consultation 
with, and after approval of, the Association. 
 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
E. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, through MARNDR: 
 
(a) 
ensure that: (i) PCU submits annual work plans and budget in respect of 
 
the Project to the Association for its review and approval and thereafter; 
Page  11
9
(ii) the Project is further implemented, applying the views, comments 
 
and recommendations of the Association thereon; 
 
(b) 
select in accordance with the provisions of Section III. C of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and pursuant to terms of reference previously agreed 
with the Association, and thereafter use throughout Project 
implementation for purposes of the financial management and 
procurement activities of the Project, a fiduciary agent acceptable to the 
Association under a fiduciary management contract  satisfactory to the 
Association; 
 
(c)  
(i) cause: the Fiduciary Agent to ensure that all financial management, 
accounting, monitoring, auditing and procurement activities related to the 
implementation of the Project, except for Part 1.2 thereof, are carried out 
under said Fiduciary Management Contract in accordance with the terms 
of this Agreement, the Additional Instructions thereto and the 
Operational Manual; (ii) exercise its rights under the Fiduciary 
Management Contract in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Fiduciary Management Contract; and (iii) except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, ensure that the Fiduciary Management Contract is not 
assigned, amended or abrogated in any of its provisions; 
 
(d) 
ensure that  all fiduciary aspects for the implementation of Part 1.2 of the 
Project exclusively are managed by the administrative unit of the 
department of animal health of MARNDR; and 
 
(e)  
ensure, not later than 6 months after the Effective Date, that: (i) the 
 
Environmental Management Plan for the Project is prepared, satisfactory 
 
to the Association; (ii) the Project is promptly thereafter implemented in 
 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan agreed with the 
 
Association; and (iii) the Operational Manual is updated to reflect the 
 
management and monitoring measures and related institutional 
 
arrangements set forth in the EMP. 
 
F. Safeguards
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
EMP prepared under the Project. 
 
Page  12
10
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Parts 1, 3 and 4 of the 
Project carried out, in whole or in part, by MARNDR and Part 2 of the Project 
carried out by MSPP and prepare, through MARNDR and MSPP respectively, 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in 
the Operational Manual.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association in consolidated form 
by PCU not later than forty-five days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than July 15, 2012. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, through MARNDR for Parts 1, 3 and 4 of the Project and 
MSPP for Part 2 of the Project, maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient, 
through MARNDR and MSPP for their respective Parts of the Project, shall 
prepare, or cause to be prepared, as part of the Project Report interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project covering each calendar quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, all to be furnished to the Association by 
PCU not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have the Financial Statements for Parts 1, 3 and 4 of the 
Project implemented by MARNDR and Part 2 of the Project implemented by 
MSPP, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements for Parts 1, 3, and 4 
of the Project implemented by MARNDR and Part 2 of the Project implemented 
by MSPP,  shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association in 
consolidated form by PCU not later than four months after the end of such 
period. 
 
4. 
For purposes of Paragraph 3 above, the Recipient, through PCU, shall,
 
not later 
than six months after the Effective Date, ensure that the independent auditor 
referred to in Section 4.09 (b) (i) of the General Conditions is appointed with 
Page  13
11
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and selected in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement
.
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be  used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to using 
 
Standard Bidding Documents agreed with the 
 Association 
(b) Shopping, subject to using  Standard Request for 
 Quotations
 
agreed with the Association 
(c) Direct Contracting, subject to the Association’s prior 
 written 
consent 
Page  14
12
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Association’s 
 
prior written consent  
(f)  Procedures for the selection of Individual 
 
Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
subject to the Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  15
13
 
Category
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR
)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1) Eligible expenditures  in 
 
respect of Compensation 
 
payments under Part 1.2 
 
of the Project 
 
100,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(2) Goods, works, c
onsultants’ 
 
services, Operating Costs 
 
and Training for Parts 1.1, 
 
1.3, 2  and 3 of the 
 Project 
 760,000 
100% 
(3) Consultants’ services  and 
 
Operating Costs for  Part  
 
4 of the Project 
 90,000 
100% 
(4) Unallocated 
 
50,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 1,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
payments made under Category (1) above until and unless a detailed 
 
compensation mechanism setting forth, 
inter alia
,
the institutional
 
framework, management, governance structure, criteria, rules, 
 
methods, operational procedures, monitoring arrangements and 
 
guidelines for the provision thereunder of compensation for poultry 
 
owners who report sick or dead poultry has been established, satisfactory 
 
to the Association.  
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is January 15, 2012.  
Page  16
14
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Additional Instructions” means those instructions referred to in Section IV.A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Environmental Management Plan” and “EMP” mean the set of mitigation, 
enhancement, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during Project 
implementation to eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset 
them, or reduce them to acceptable levels, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Environmental Management Plan.  
 
6. 
“Fiduciary Agent” means the agent referred to in Section I.E.1 (b) of Schedule 2 
to this agreement. 
 
7. 
“Fiduciary Management Contract” means the contract referred to in Section I. 
E.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
 
9. 
“HPAI” means, depending on the context, the highly-pathogenic avian influenza 
(HPAI) infection or the underlying virus. 
 
10. 
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication. 
 
11. “MARNDR” 
means 
Ministère de l’Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles et du 
Développement Rural
,
the R
ecipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, Natural 
Resources and Rural Development. 
 
Page  17
15
12. 
“MCC” means 
Minis
tère de la Culture et de la Communication
,
the
 Recipient’s 
Ministry of Culture and Communication. 
 
13. 
“Memorandum of Understanding”  and “MOU” means the agreement referred to 
in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant, to which the Recipient 
shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing available to MSPP for the 
carrying out of Part 2 of the Project.   
 
14. “MSPP” 
means
 Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la Population
,
the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Public Health and Population. 
 
15. “National 
Plan” 
means 
Plan National de
 Réponse à la Pandémie de Grippe 
Aviaire, 
the Recipient’s Avian Flu Pandemic Response Plan for the period 2006-
2010, adopted under the umbrella of Global Program for Avian Influenza (GPAI) 
to which Haiti is a party, based on strategies developed by the World Health 
Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Organization 
for Animal Health. 
 
16. 
“NGO” means a Non-Governmental Organization, established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Recipient. 
 
17. 
“Operating costs” means in respect of Category 2 and 3 in the table of Section 
IV.A (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, 
vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office 
administration costs, utilities, travel, 
per diem
 and supervision costs and salaries 
of locally contracted employees. 
 
18. 
“Operational Manual” and “OM” mean the manual referred to in Section I.C.1 
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
19. 
“PCU” means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section I.A.1.of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
20. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated June 17, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
22. 
“Project Year” means each twelve month period during Project implementation 
starting from the day after the Effective Date and ending twelve calendar months 
Page  18
16
thereafter, and each subsequent twelve month period thereafter until completion 
of the Project. 
 
23. 
“Training” means in respect of Category 2 in the table in Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem
 
expenditures as incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training 
and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility 
rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and 
distribution expenses not otherwise covered under said Section IV.A(2) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
