Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/09/2009 
Report No.:  AC3694
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Haiti 
Project ID:  P111667 
Project Name:  AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN INFLUENZA 
EMERGENCY PREPARDNESS AND CONTROL 
Task Team Leader:  Diego Arias Carballo 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 5, 2008 
Estimated Board Date: July 14, 2008 
Managing Unit:  LCSAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry (63%);Public 
administration- Health (20%);Agricultural extension and research (7%);Health 
(5%);Animal production (5%) 
Theme:  Rural policies and institutions (75%);Other communicable diseases (25%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
1.56 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.57
0.57 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project objectives are to minimize the threat posed by AHI infection and other 
zoonoses for the poultry sector and humans, and to prepare for, control, and respond to 
influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies as they may occur.  
 
The proposed emergency operation aims at responding to the heightened risk of Avian 
Flu infection in Haiti, due to confirmation of its presence in the neighboring Dominican 
Republic.  The operation would have two-year duration and be composed of three 
components: (1) Animal Health; (2) Human Health; and (3) Communications.  The initial 
focus of activities is on animal health and emergency animal health preparedness and 
prevention activities, and capacity building at multiple levels in several key areas 
(laboratory facilities and community-based interventions), with some limited actions 
concerning human health.   
 
Page  2
3. Project Description 
The project has four components. World Bank financing under this project would support 
the implementation of the National Plan as a complement to the current AHIF program 
currently underway and other possible donor support.  This financing would be provided 
through an Emergency Response Credit (ERC), funded by an IDA grant. Project 
components have been designed to mirror the strategies and actions identified in the 
National Plan.  
 
•
Component 1: Animal Health (US$ 0.76 million)  
 
The component is directed at investigation, surveillance, prevention, and preparedness 
for an outbreak.  Activities to reduce the risk of AHI infection in prevalent poultry sector 
activities such as backyard poultry and commercial poultry production would be 
supported, as would actions to increase the capacity for laboratory diagnosis and early 
detection and response (including improving the national information system) at the 
field-level.  
 
Specifically, Component 1 aims at: (i) providing the required knowledge on the status of 
AHI in Haiti; (ii) strengthening facilities for early detection and mitigation of the 
potential impacts of AHI (predominantly quarantine facilities); (iii) testing sanitary 
measures in the context of peasant poultry production; and (iv) carrying out 
communications activities to facilitate the enforcement of planned measures.  The 
component would have national coverage and be implemented in two years, via four sub-
components.  Component 1 would have three sub-components: (i) Sub-Component 1.1: 
Emergency Actions; (ii) Sub-Component 1.2: Institutional Capacity Building (principally 
focused on MARNDR); and (iii) Sub-Component 1.3: Community Pilot Actions 
(centered upon the local-level GSBs).  
 
•
Component 2: Human Health (US$ 0.2125 million)  
 
Component 2 supports AHI prevention and mitigation activities at the national level, 
through capacity building, surveillance of human health, and the establishment of 
mechanisms for responding to outbreaks.  It would involve implementing the 
WHO/PAHO-recommended strategic measures for preparedness regarding a potential 
AHI pandemic, and avoid or diminish its extension to humans were it to occur. Activities 
include capacity building of health staff to improve the surveillance system and 
integration of routine surveillance systems and data.  Simulations to assess the state of 
implementation and effectiveness of public health measures would also be covered, as 
well as information campaigns to increase the general level of knowledge of public health 
staff and the population at large.  This Component also includes capacity building for the 
Ministry of Health and Population (MSPP) staff.  The sub-component would aim at 
strengthening the capacity of MSP staff to undertake prevention and mitigation measures, 
effectively enabling them to be in a proactive surveillance mode and state of adequate 
readiness in the case of an AHI outbreak. This would be achieved through appropriate 
training classes and workshops.  
 
Page  3
•
Component 3: Communications (US$ 0.379 million)  
 
The objectives of this Component are to: (i) raise public awareness; (ii) protect 
vulnerable populations against infection; (iii) secure political and civil society support; 
and (iv) prepare institutions for increased demand for advice, products, and services in 
the animal and human health sectors.  It would promote behavioral change to control the 
spread of the virus, prevent infection, adopt bio-safety procedures, strengthen 
surveillance and reporting mechanisms, provide visibility to public sector actions, 
highlight investments in infrastructure and institutional reform, select and train 
spokespersons to provide timely and accurate information, channel incentives and 
compensation mechanisms, and promote a coordinated and coherent multi-sectoral 
response.  The component would also aim to identify and enhance synergies with 
established and credible rural community programs, run by NGOs and other groups.  
 
•
Component 4: Administration and Cooperation with DR (US$ 0.130 million)  
 
This component would cover the administration of grant activities including 
procurement and disbursement activities, as carried out by IICA.  It will also cover the 
audit costs of the project.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project has national coverage, with emphasis on: (i) rural communities in which 
backyard poultry growing is common; (ii) small to medium-size commercial farms; (iii) 
national border areas (high-risk zones).  For certain components, provinces would be 
targeted in which poultry production is heavily concentrated (for the purposes of virus 
eradication at the source and restructuring of the poultry sector) and/or where reference, 
regional and public health laboratories exist (for strengthening of animal and public 
health disease surveillance capacity).   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Indira Janaki Ekanayake (AFTAR) 
Mr Peter Cohen (LCSSO) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  4
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:  
 
This project is expected to contribute to minimizing or mitigating the impacts of an 
unchecked Avian-Human Influenza (AHI) outbreak and help avert a human pandemic, 
through the development of a viable and effective reporting and response mechanisms.  
 
It is not expected to have any large-scale, significant, or irreversible impacts, as it is 
focused largely on capacity building and the strengthening of emergency preparedness, 
readiness and response to AHI.  Ensuring that there is a proper response mechanism in 
case of an outbreak among animals (and chiefly, poultry) would help minimize the risk of 
human infection, and further spreading.  
 
The conducting of an appropriately designed public awareness campaign and designing 
of a preparedness plan should further help prevent or reduce the human impacts of a 
possible pandemic.  Such measures as improving bio-security in farms and live markets, 
and controlling poultry movement within and across national boundaries would 
furthermore have positive human health and environmental impacts.  
 
The Environmental Screening Category of this project is a B, with limited impacts.  
 
The only Bank Safeguard Policy triggered under this project is that on Environmental 
Assessment (OP 4.01). As the project is being processed under OP 8.00 (Emergency 
Recovery Assistance), preparation and disclosure of the EMP under the exception would 
be delayed, in accordance with OP 4.01, para 12.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)  
 
Key environmental and personal hygiene issues in this project include: (i) disease 
transmission from poultry and other avian species during response to AHI outbreaks in 
the field (e.g., culling of poultry, selection of appropriate disinfectants for disinfection of 
contaminated farm areas, transportation of farm wastes and carcasses if necessary, 
management and disposal of farm wastes, animal carcasses and used PPE, and packaging 
and shipment of specimens); (ii) management of wastes and personal hygiene at testing 
laboratories; (iii) management of wastes and personal hygiene at hospitals to be receiving 
potentially AHI-infected patients; and (iv) small-scale civil works.  
 
While the policy on Natural Habitats (OP 4.04) is not triggered (as the project would not 
convert or degrade any protected areas, known natural habitats, or established or 
proposed critical natural habitats as defined under the policy).  
 
Page  5
While the policy on Pest Management (OP 4.09) is not triggered (as the project would 
not procure pesticides nor result in any increased use of pesticides, chemicals to be used 
for the disinfection of farm facilities/personal protection equipment and selected 
disinfectants would be evaluated on a case by case basis for conformity with the policy. 
Any use of hazardous disinfectants would necessitate the providing of training in safe 
transport, handling, and application.  
 
While the policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) is not triggered (as no 
involuntary land acquisition or displacement of people is expected), compensation of 
poultry growers and owners for loss of stock through potential culling actions 
–
along the 
lines of the compensation practices ensured under the policy – has been incorporated into 
project design. In case of an outbreak, EMP will have procedures for addressing the virus 
in wild bird populations.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Given the emergency nature of preparation of this project, other alternatives have not 
been considered.  However, it is not discounted that if necessary and during 
implementation decisions related to safeguard policies will take all practical alternatives 
in to consideration.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
An initial draft EMP would be prepared by the time of Effectiveness, to be replaced 
within six (6) months by a final plan, and to serve during that period in the case of an 
outbreak or other emergency. As this project is being processed under OP 8.00 
(Emergency Recovery Assistance), preparation and disclosure of the EMP under the 
exception would be delayed, in accordance with OP 4.01, para 12.  
 
The Borrower’s institutional capacity for addressing safeguards policies under this 
project  has been deemed adequate.  In addition, the Borrower would be supported by an 
AHI-TF grant project in operation and other donor and technical agencies, such as IICA 
and FAO-TCP, that will support the implementation of the National Plan in which the 
EMP is embedded.  All contracts would be evaluated to ensure compliance with both 
Bank safeguard policies and Haitian law.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include poultry farmers and traders, consumers and both public and 
private entities engaged in the sector. Appropriate measures would be taken to contact 
and adequately consult these groups.  All necessary documents and project information 
would be disclosed in local languages (French and Creole), according to the Bank 
Disclosure Policy.  
 
Public Disclosure (BP 17.50):  
Page  6
As the project is being processed under OP 8.00 (Emergency Recovery Assistance), 
safeguards issues would be addressed through the use of accepted good practice and 
sound design principles.  No Safeguards documents will be finalized prior to appraisal. 
All draft documents would be disclosed as they are prepared, and again, when they are 
finalized. All necessary documents and project information would be disclosed in local 
languages (French and Creole), according to the Bank disclosure policy.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/15/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
09/15/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/20/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Because the project is being processed under OP 8.00 (Emergency Recovery Assistance), 
safeguards issues would be addressed through the use of accepted good practice and 
sound design principles.  No Safeguards documents will be finalized and disclosed prior 
to appraisal.  As mentioned above, an initial draft EMP will be prepared by the time of 
Effectiveness, to be replaced within six (6) months by a final plan, and to serve during 
that period in the case of an outbreak or other emergency.  
 
All draft documents would be disclosed as they are prepared, and again when they are 
finalized, in the appropriate forums and languages.   
Page  7
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jean-Claude Balcet 
05/12/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Indira Janaki Ekanayake 
05/19/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Peter Cohen 
05/09/2008 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
03/28/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Ethel Sennhauser 
06/24/2009 
Comments:   
