                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR2628



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H4190)



                                       ON A

                      EMERGENCY RECOVERY GRANT
                             IN THE AMOUNT OF
                              SDR 1.00 MILLION
                      (US$1.557 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE
                             REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                           FOR AN
  AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
                    AND RESPONSE PROJECT

                                 UNDER THE

             GLOBAL PROGRAM FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA
      AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE (GPAI)

                               December 12, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Haiti Country Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 12, 2012)


                   Currency Unit = Gourdes (HTG)
                     HTG 40.48 = US$1
                      US$ 0.625 = SDR 1

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      October 1 – September 30


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHI        Avian and Human Influenza
AI         Avian Influenza
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
CCID       Center for Control of Infectious Diseases
CDC        Centers for Disease and Control Prevention
CNIAH      National Commission on Avian and Human Influenza
DDA        Departmental Directorate for Agriculture
DELR       Department of Epidemiology, Laboratory and Research
DPSA       Directorate for Animal Production and Animal Health
DR         Dominican Republic
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization
GoH        Government of Haiti
GPAI       Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
           Preparedness and Response
GSB        Gwoupman Sante Bèt
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
           Syndrome
HPAI       High Pathogenic Avian Influenza
IADB       Inter-American Development Bank
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA        International Development Association
IICA       Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
ISO        International Organization for Standardization
LPAI       Low Pathogenic Avian Influenza
LVCQAT     Tamarinier Veterinary and Food Quality Control Laboratory
MARNDR     Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance
MSPP       Ministry of Public Health and Population
MTR        Mid-Term Review
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
OIE     World Organization for Animal Health
OP      Operational Policy of the World Bank
PAHO    Pan-American Health Organization
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PP      Project Paper
TCP     Technical Cooperation Project
UCS     Health Units under MSPP
UPS     Sanitary Protection Unit of MARNDR
USAID   United States Agency for International Development
WB      World Bank
WHO     World Health Organization


                   Vice President: Hassan Tuluy
                 Country Director: Alexandre Abrantes
                  Sector Manager: Laurent Msellati
             Project Team Leader: Diego Arias
                ICR Team Leader: Gabriela Vaz Rodrigues
                                            REPUBLIC OF HAITI

AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
                  AND RESPONSE PROJECT

                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       AVIAN INFLUENZA
                                                                       CONTROL AND
                                                                       HUMAN INFLUENZA
Country:               Haiti                    Project Name:
                                                                       EMERGENCY
                                                                       PREPARDNESS AND
                                                                       CONTROL
Project ID:            P111667                  L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H4190
ICR Date:              12/12/2012               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    ERL                      Borrower:              THE REPUBLIC OF
                                                                       HAITI
Original Total
                       XDR 1.00M                Disbursed Amount:      XDR 0.92M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        XDR 1.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Health and Population
 Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/19/2008     Effectiveness:          04/06/2009       04/06/2009
Appraisal:            06/05/2008     Restructuring(s):                        05/03/2010
Approval:             07/14/2008     Mid-term Review:        07/18/2011       07/18/2011
                                     Closing:                01/15/2012       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                 Not Applicable
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                             Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower            Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:                Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           Yes                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   7                      5
Animal production                                                     5                  20
Health                                                                5                      5
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry             63                  60
Public administration- Health                                        20                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other communicable diseases                                          25                  20
Rural policies and institutions                                      75                  80

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                      Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Alexandre V. Abrantes               Yvonne M. Tsikata
Sector Manager:            Laurent Msellati                    Ethel Sennhauser
Project Team Leader:       Diego Arias Carballo                Jean-Claude Balcet
ICR Team Leader:           Diego Arias Carballo
ICR Primary Author:         Gabriela Vaz Rodrigues


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To minimize the threat posed to humans by highly-pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI)
infection and other zoonoses, and to prepare for, control, and respond to influenza
pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revision

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally           Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised             Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target            Completion or
                                             documents)          Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Communal sections remain free of AHI infection in poultry
Value
quantitative or   0                          24                                 24
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/04/2008                 01/31/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Communal sections that send weekly surveillance report on time
Value
quantitative or   2                          25                                 20
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/04/2008                 01/31/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          80%
achievement)
                  Decrease in the time taken to report information on poultry diseases at local level
Indicator 3 :
                  (number of days it takes to report information)
Value
quantitative or 7                          4                                  2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/04/2008                   01/31/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %        200%
achievement)
                Backyard poultry farmers currently applying at least three prescriptions to protect
Indicator 4 :
                their poultry and/or family
Value           0                          2800                               Not Known
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/04/2008                   01/31/2012                         06/29/2012
Comments
                The indicator likely intended to measure the individual contribution of the project
(incl. %
                to 2800 vaccinations following the training of farmers (impact of the training).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Laboratory staff trained in AHI diagnosis by the project
Value
(quantitative     0                         12                                  6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/04/2008                01/31/2012                          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          50%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Communal sections adequately covered by trained staff
Value
(quantitative     Not known                 40                                  484
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/04/2008                01/31/2012                          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          1000%+
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Development of communications strategy
Value
(quantitative     None                      Approved                            Approved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/04/2008                01/31/2012                          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Accomplished
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Health Personnel receiving training under the project
Value
(quantitative     0                         42                                  400
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/04/2008                01/31/2012                          06/29/2012
Comments
(incl. %          1000%
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    08/13/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    02/20/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  3    07/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  4    11/17/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.35
                                                 Moderately
  5    05/07/2010   Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.35
                                               Unsatisfactory
  6    12/02/2010   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             0.46
                         Moderately              Moderately
  7    06/29/2011                                                               0.46
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  8    12/28/2011                                                               0.71
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  9    06/29/2012                                                               1.41
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Earthquake of 2010 resulted in
 05/03/2010       N       MS    MS            0.35   project extension and
                                                     reallocation of expenditures.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.1.1 The Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
Preparedness and Response. In 2005, the highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1
virus emerged as a global threat. On January 12, 2006 the Bank’s Board endorsed the Global
Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response
(GPAI) as a horizontal, adaptable program providing up to US$500 million of immediate
emergency assistance to countries seeking support to address this threat to public health and
economic activity world-wide. The GPAI was a Bank contribution to a broad international
response launched at the ministerial conference in Beijing, China, in January 2006 with
pledges of US$1.9 billion from 35 donors. Throughout 2006, the virus spread rapidly with
additional countries reporting cases of HPAI; by the end of the year, 55 countries in Asia,
Europe, Africa and the Middle East had reported cases in poultry or wild birds.

1.1.2 Avian Influenza outbreak in Hispaniola: Following detection of the H5N2 subtype
of Avian Influenza (AI) in the Dominican Republic (DR) in December 2007, the Bank started
preparation of the Project as part of the global response effort. In May 2008, the virus was
detected at four locations in Haiti. Suspected means of introduction of AI in Haiti were
through its six ports and two main airports, trade along the Haitian-DR border and internal
poultry movements (especially of fighting cocks), and through the migration of infected birds.
The H5N2 flu detected in DR and later in Haiti was Low Pathogenic Avian Influenza (LPAI)
and thus did not represent a significant threat to animal or human health (i.e., low risk of
severe illness and death). However, concern existed over the spread of H5N2 and possible
mutation of the virus into a Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) subtype, which can
cause severe illness and death (such as H5N1, see Annex 1).

1.1.3 Country Context. At the time of project appraisal, Haiti’s population was estimated
at 9.5 million, with an annual growth rate of 1.6%. Historically, Haiti was always the poorest
country in the Western hemisphere and one of the most disadvantaged globally, with 78% of
its population living below the poverty line (US$2.00/day). It ranked 146th out of 177
countries in the 2007 Human Development Index. Estimates put the number of poultry in
Haiti at approximately 5 million of which only 10-20% were owned by commercial
enterprises1. However, when compared to the results of the 2008-2010 Agricultural Census
these numbers turned out to be a significant under-estimation of the actual numbers of poultry
(8.9 million) and of the importance to livelihoods of traditional poultry farming (99.5% of
775,704 farms were raising poultry nationwide) 2 , increasing the challenge of preventing,
controlling and responding to potential outbreaks of AI. Haiti was also exposed to the risk of
infection by zoonoses3 through imports of around 2.5 million chickens per month, including
from the DR. 4 The Human health situation also was also quite dire at time of project


1
  Project Paper; Plan Haitien de Préparation a une Pandémie d’Influenza 2009. Based on FAO estimates from
2005.
2
  See Annex 2 for the preliminary results of the 2008-2010 Agricultural Census, released in September 2012.
3
  Zoonoses are infectious diseases that can be transmitted between species, from animals to humans or vice versa.
Zoonoses now account for 75% of infectious diseases affecting humans
4
  In addition to the AI detected in 2008, many diseases had historically affected livestock in Haiti including
Newcastle disease, Classical Swine Fever, Porcine Encephalomyelitis (Teschen disease), anthrax, screw-worm,
rabies, brucellosis, tuberculosis and varroasis. Of these, only AI, rabies, anthrax, brucellosis and tuberculosis are
potentially severe zoonoses.


                                                         1
appraisal, with an infant mortality rate of 75 per 1000 births and the highest incidence of
HIV/AIDS outside Sub-Saharan Africa.

1.1.4 The National Commission, Steering Committee, and Plan for Avian Influenza.
The Haitian Government’s awareness of AHI started in 2003, following cases of human
deaths from H5N1 in Asia. A technical body, the National Commission on Avian and Human
Influenza (CNIAH), under the Ministry for Public Health and Population (MSPP), was
created in 2005 and institutionalized by decree in 2006. Tasked with preparing an Avian
Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness Plan, CNIAH’s life was short and its activities
ceased with a change of Minister in 2006. The follow-on National Steering Committee on
Avian Influenza intended to raise resources for surveillance activities and information sharing,
but was never institutionalized although it did prepare the National Program for the
Epidemiologic Vigilance of Avian Influenza. Under the Global Program for Avian Influenza
(GPAI), the Government of Haiti (GoH) then prepared a National Avian Influenza Control
and Pandemic Preparedness Plan (National Plan) covering the period 2006-2010, consistent
with the global strategies developed by FAO/OIE and WHO-PAHO, and providing the basis
for the Project and other donor support.

1.1.5 Animal health sector in Haiti. Key actors in animal health were and remain: (i) local
voluntary Animal Health Groups (Gwoupman Sante Bèt or GSBs); (ii) the Animal and Plant
Quarantine Service, legally responsible for surveillance and response at ports, airports, border
posts, and internal posts; (iii) the Directorate for Animal Production and Animal Health
(DPSA) responsible for coordinating and implementing policies on animal health and
epidemiological surveillance; and (iv) the Tamarinier Veterinary and Food Quality Control
Laboratory (LVCQAT, the National Laboratory), responsible for the diagnosis of animal
diseases and food analysis. The last three organizations are part of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR). Annex 3 summarizes
the roles of these actors and their deficiencies at the time of appraisal.

1.1.6 The Human health sector in Haiti. Concerning human health, expenditures in Haiti
were and are among the lowest Latin America, and the sector is characterized by insufficient
health workers, essential drugs, and equipment. Most hospitals have insufficient isolation
rooms and equipment for patients with severe respiratory diseases. The constraints in the
health sector at time of appraisal were mirrored in the National Center for Laboratory and
Epidemiology (NCLE), which lacked sufficient human and financial resources and
operational facilities.

1.1.7 Project appraisal. At the time of appraisal, USAID support to the GoH to get the
AHI program up and running had been completed (US$100,000 between 2006 and 2007). Six
approved or ongoing projects were identified in the area of animal and human health (see
Annex 3). Project appraisal was conducted in coordination with other donors. The project
was part of GPAI under which all projects are processed using OP/BP 8.00 on Rapid
Response to Crises and Emergencies. Funding was sourced from cancelled undisbursed
balances of operations financed from Haiti’s IDA-13 allocation, and was limited to the
amount available from this source. Based on the GPAI framework and on lessons from Latin
America (e.g. Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Chile) and other Regions in the World, the
project adopted a multi-pronged approach, including dissemination of AHI information to the
public, strengthening the early detection and warning system at the field level, and improving
the capacity for rapid and effective response to an outbreak. At the time of appraisal, two
complementary projects, supporting a regional approach for the whole island, had been signed


                                               2
in March 2008 for Haiti and the Dominican Republic, the AHI Prevention and Control
Program, a capacity building program financed by the AHI Facility (US$1.0 million per
country)5. These projects would complement the IDA-financed project and were intended to
improve national and bi-national communications and emergency activities not covered by it.

1.1.8 Rationale for Bank involvement. Bank involvement was justified on the following
grounds: (i) the urgent need to reduce the threat of AHI and increase preparedness in Haiti;
(ii) the regional and global public goods aspect of controlling AHI and other zoonoses; (iii)
the need for countries to strengthen their veterinary services, disease surveillance, and the
human health system; and (iv) the potential social and economic impacts of AHI on Haitian
farmers and the Haitian population as a whole. The latter was consistent with general
objectives of poverty alleviation and economic growth contained in the 2006 Haiti Interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy prepared by the government of Haiti.

1.1.9 Implementation arrangements. The project had a clear focus an animal health and
as such a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within the Directorate for Animal
Production and Health (DPSA) and responsible for coordinating technical execution of the
entire Project. DPSA was responsible for the execution of Component 1, while MSPP was in
charge of Component 2. Communication activities were to be outsourced and coordinated by
the Ministry of Communication. Finally, Component 4, including the project’s financial
administration and procurement, was outsourced to the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA), which acted as a fiduciary agent 6 . The decision to
choose to IICA was due in part to a preference expressed by MSPP in order to have a neutral
management of funds, and in part to the Bank team’s assessment (see Annex 4).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

1.2.1 Project Development Objective. To minimize the threat posed to humans by highly-
pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) infection and other zoonoses, and to prepare for, control,
and respond to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease emergencies in humans. The
PDO reflected exactly the GPAI development objective.

1.2.2 PDO indicators. The Results Matrix shows Key Indicators as: (i) the number of
communal sections sending weekly reports on time; (ii) the number of days taken to report
information on poultry diseases at the local level in a representative sample of communal
sections; and (iii) the number of backyard poultry farmers applying at least three prescriptions
to protect their poultry and/or family from AHI. In the Main Text however, these indicators
are shown as Intermediate Outcome with the Key Indicator being “the number of communal
sections that remain free of AHI infection in poultry?. All four indicators are considered as
Key Indicators in this ICR. See Table 1, Section 3.2 for the complete Results Matrix.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N/A


5
  The AHI Facility is a multi-donor grant-making mechanism supported by the European Commission and nine
other donors, and administered by the World Bank.
6
  IICA is a multilateral agency of the Inter-American system specialized in agriculture. It was contracted by the
government as the project’s fiduciary agency, and remunerated with project funds. The same arrangement was
successfully implemented in the AHI project in DR.


                                                       3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The primary project beneficiaries were expected to be: (i) poultry farmers who would
benefit from pilot community initiatives and from improved animal health; (ii) the Haitian
population in general as potential beneficiaries of improved management of the threat of AHI;
(iii) the Gwoupman Sante Bèt (GSBs) 7 ; (iv) professionals of the DPSA, including of the
National Laboratory; (v) health care institutions and personnel; and (vi) other participants in
the animal health and human health systems receiving strengthening, equipment, training or
information through the project. There were also (unquantified but likely substantial) cross-
border benefits because by controlling disease outbreaks promptly and effectively, Haiti and
the Dominican Republic could manage avian flu island-wide.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

1.5.1 Component 1: Animal health (US$ 760,000), which represented approximately 50%
of the Grant, financed support for prevention 8 , surveillance, and preparedness for any AI
outbreak. It included activities to provide knowledge on the status of AI in Haiti; to
strengthen facilities for early detection and mitigation of the potential impacts of AI,
predominantly quarantine facilities; and to test sanitary measures in the context of small farm
poultry production. It was designed to have national coverage and comprised three sub-
components: (i) Pilot community actions through GSBs; (ii) Emergency actions (culling); and
(iii) Sub-Institutional capacity building (MARNDR).

1.5.2 Component 2: Human health (US$ 212,500) financed support for AHI prevention
and mitigation at the national level, through capacity building and epidemiologic surveillance
in the human health sector, and the establishment of an outbreak response mechanism.
Activities included capacity building of health staff to improve the surveillance system and
integration of routine surveillance systems and data; simulations to assess the state of
implementation and effectiveness of public health measures; and information campaigns to
increase the level of knowledge of public health staff and the population at large.

1.5.3 Component 3: Communications (US$ 379,000) financed support for: (i) raising
public awareness of AHI; (ii) securing political and civil society support; and (iii) preparing
animal and human health institutions for increased demand for advice, products and services
in case of an AHI outbreak. It sought behavioral change to control the spread of the virus,
prevent infection, strengthen surveillance, adopt biosafety procedures and reporting
mechanisms, and highlight the required investments in infrastructure and institutional reforms.

1.5.4 Component 4: Project administration (US$ 130,000) financed support for the
administration of grant activities including procurement and disbursement services provided
by the fiduciary agency. It also covered project audits.

1.6 Revised Components


7
  GSBs are independent, voluntary, local community structures responsible for the local planning and
implementation of vaccination programs and for animal clinical surveillance, among other roles.
8
  Prevention can be interpreted as actions to avoid the occurrence of any disease (e.g. surveillance, quarantine,
risk analysis, biosafety, vaccination, communication); surveillance, reporting and control correspond to the
constant monitoring of animal (and human health) to detect virus outbreaks; and preparedness, mitigation and
response refer to the readiness of the animal (and human health) systems to react or respond to an outbreak of the
highly pathogenic virus, should it occur.


                                                        4
N/A

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1 Complementary funding and effectiveness. The US$1.0 million grant approved for
Haiti from the AHI Facility was cancelled due to the GoH’s failure to meet effectiveness
conditions by the three-month deadline and to request an extension of this deadline. The
Bank and GoH decided to continue with execution of the IDA project while GoH would
continue to seek funds to fill the “financial gap?. IDA financing was reprioritized to achieve
project objectives, focusing mainly on animal health capacity building activities and reducing
the focus on emergency response actions. The deadline for project effectiveness (August 18,
2008) was extended to April 2009 in January 2009 to provide more time for signature of the
fiduciary agreement between IICA and MARNDR. The project became effective on April 6,
2009.

1.7.2 Extension of the closing date and reallocation of expenditures. On May 3, 2010,
the Financing Agreement was amended as following: (i) reallocated US$ 80,000 from
Unallocated and US$ 80,000 from Category 1 (Compensation payments) to Category 2
(Goods, consultants’ services Training and Operating costs for Components 1, 2 and 3); and
(ii) the original closing date (January 15, 2012) was extended to January 15, 2013. This
restructuring was decided in the aftermath of the January 2010 earthquake which caused
implementation delays in addition to those already caused by poor fiduciary management of
the Project.

1.7.3 Early closing of the project. A second change of the closing date (to advance the
date) was decided following the Mid-Term Review (MTR) and formalized on July 18, 2011.
Despite accelerated implementation and improved fiduciary capacity, progress was not
satisfactory at the time of the MTR. The Bank recommended that GoH advance the closing
date to June 30, 2012 and included still-pending activities in another Bank-financed operation
under preparation with the MARNDR (RESEPAG II – P126744).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Rapid and Global Response. The challenge posed by the H5N1 avian flu and
pandemic threats necessitated a coordinated multisectoral response. The GPAI framework set
out how multiple sectors and actors would have to work together and provided a template for
the design of country responses, based on guidance from WHO, FAO, and OIE. The design
built on relevant Bank operational experience, including in emergency responses to disasters,
the global program to address HIV/AIDS, and other responses to outbreaks of animal-borne
diseases. Given the context of the global AHI response, the threat of AHI to Haiti, the
detection of H5N2 in the neighboring Dominican Republic, and despite an absence of Bank
engagement with Haiti in the agriculture sector, the Bank responded swiftly to Government’s
request by launching project preparation and appraisal to prevent AHI – and particularly
HPAI – from spreading into the country. The project was prepared and approved under
OP 8.0 and was intended to be financed through several sources of funds including
Government’s own resources, AHIF Trust Fundsand IDA Grant.



                                              5
2.1.2 Government Commitment. The Government of Haiti took immediate measures -
including closing the cross-border trade in livestock - and allocated their own budgetary
resources to support the National Plan. Despite tensions between the DR and Haiti, the Bank
supported both Ministries of Agriculture in a technical dialogue to deal with the problem
bilaterally (island-wide) in order to achieve the objectives in both countries. With Bank
support, both countries were able to maintain technical discussions on AI prevention and
control. However, on the human health agenda, MSPP was not actively involved in the
design of the project, resulting in: (i) a low level of funding of Human Health activities
(Component 2) which only received 14% of the IDA grant and of the AHI grant, and (ii) a
lack of commitment from MSPP during project implementation.

2.1.3 Project financing. The project was designed and appraised with three sources of
funding: IDA, AHIF and Government Resources (see Table below). This financing structure
supported the same PDO and was allocated on a proportional basis per component. In
particular, the AHIF TF was central to the design of the project and its cancellation would
have a huge impact.

                                                     Table 1 : Summary Project Costs (US$)
                    Component / Sub-Component                                  IDA Grant (P111667)9     AHIF TF (TF091637)10   Government Funds

                                                                                            760,000                 800,000
1. Animal Health                                                                                                                   300,000

                                                                                     300,000                              -
                                          1.1 Pilot community activities                                                              -

                                                                                            150,000                       -
                                                1.2 Emergency actions                                                              300,000

                                                                                            310,000                 800,000
                      1.3 Capacity building for prevention and response                                                               -

                                                                                            212,500                 135,000
2. Public health                                                                                                                      -

                                                                                            379,000                        -
3. Communication                                                                                                                      -

                                                                                            130,000                  65,000
4. Administration                                                                                                                     -

                                                                                               75,500                      -
5. Un-allocated                                                                                                                       -

                                                                                          1,557,000               1,000,000
                                                                TOTAL                                                              300,000


2.1.4 Quality at entry. Quality at entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Global
response and the detection of avian flu in neighboring Dominican Republic created pressure
to rapidly submit the Project for Board approval. The Bank allocated a total of US$9,000 for
project preparation. The team was composed of agriculture and human health specialists.
The quality of Safeguards analysis was satisfactory, however design elements and conditions
on the ground merited closer scrutiny, in particular borrower capacity and fiduciary
arrangements. Two agencies were identified for fiduciary management during preparation:
IICA, and MARNDR. The decision to use IICA was due in part to MSPP’s preference for the
neutral management of funds, and in part to the Bank team’s assessment. IICA’s fiduciary
capacity was over-estimated (IICA had no experience in managing Bank projects), and with




9
    This is the allocation as of project approval (not at restructuring).
10
     This funding was approved but TF never became effective and was cancelled.


                                                                           6
hindsight MARNDR, which had experience in managing several Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB) projects (loans), would have been a better choice.

2.1.5 Project development objectives and key indicators. The Project’s PDO and
components were consistent with the GPAI and were consistent with respect to the overall
financing plan (including IDA, AHIF, and Government resources). However, following the
cancellation of the AHIF grant (35% of the overall financing plan), the PDO of the IDA Grant
was ambitious with respect to the level of financing available. The Project was aligned with
the National Plan, and the IDA (and AHIF) funds were expected to provide flexible financing
for filling the gaps throughout the course of its implementation. The Project monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) framework was relied on the government system for monitoring and
reporting. The project’s broad scope allowed the Borrower and the Bank to refocus project
activities during implementation on a more holistic approach extending beyond AHI. Finally,
project indicators were appropriate, but over-estimated MARNDR’s M&E capacity to capture
outcomes at the local and national levels, such as the use of secure and systematic reporting
on the status of AHI at communal level.
2.1.6 Risk assessment. The major risks identified at appraisal included political
commitment, institutional, fiduciary and technical capacity, and public criticism of social
distancing during a pandemic. These risks were relevant, reflecting an evolving disease threat
in an environment of limited institutional capacity; however the mitigation measures were not
appropriate for risks related to fiduciary capacity and political commitment. The hiring of
IICA as a fiduciary agency did not solve the fiduciary capacity problem and the measures for
inter-institutional collaboration were not enough to engage MSPP in executing the human
health activities.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Overall Bank portfolio implementation. Performance of the overall portfolio in Haiti
is helpful in assessing the outcome of this project. During the project period, the WB's
portfolio was characterized by high risk and severe implementation challenges. Very weak
institutional capacity combined with limited IDA resources, led to unrealistic expectations
with regard to Government leadership and diligence in implementing the bulk of IDA projects
over this period. In addition, Haiti was subject to several external shocks, including 4 severs
storms which caused 15% of GDP in losses and the massive earthquake of 2010. These
shocks led to further inability on the part of the Government to exercise due diligence in
implementation and created substantial obstacles in implementation.

2.2.2 Impact of changes in the external and domestic environment. Diminishing
international attention to the risk of a pandemic over the project period (with a marked decline
especially since 2009 when the H1N1 flu pandemic proved to be much less severe than
feared) resulted in decreasing support for this kind of multisectoral activity and an increasing
focus on animal health to control the disease at source. In response, government and donor
partners accorded progressively lower priority to implementation of the National Plan.
Furthermore, the earthquake that struck Port au Prince on January 12, 2010 affected
implementation directly. Obviously survival, relief, and recovery became the first priority in
Haiti, but also it affected facilities, communication between agencies, and implied changes in
personnel and shortages of equipment. MSPP staff was displaced to a new location; DPSA
was not in condition to receive materials to perform epidemiological tests. Providers of goods
and services were affected, resulting in a reduced offer from the local markets and
procurement delays. Finally, after the earthquake, in mid-2010, the cholera outbreak further


                                               7
distracted MSPP’s attention from the project and its participation in project activities and
follow up further declined.

2.2.3 Government’s Capacity and Commitment. In addition to the external and domestic
environment factors (exogenous to the project) mentioned above, the following where some
of the factors regarding capacity and commitment from the borrower that impacted
implementation:
a. Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF). The MEF provided initial funding for the
emergency activities related to the project but was quickly disengaged from the avian and
human influenza agenda, and did not follow up on ensuring that the AHIF TF became
effective therefore loosing such funding by letting the effectiveness deadline elapsed.
b. Ministry of Agriculture (MARNDR) The MARNDR was the main counterpart and
champion of the AI agenda in the country, and even with the reduction on the Global and
Domestic priority dedicated to Avian Flu, they saw the project as an opportunity to strengthen
their animal health services. Initially, MARNDR prioritized activities supporting the
prevention and control of AI, launching a culling campaign in areas where AI was originally
detected (with financing from public sector budget resources). Later, the MARNDR focused
on broader capacity building on animal health, and quarantine and laboratory services,
moving towards a programmatic (rather than project) approach to tackling diseases like AI.
This led to activities related to animal health to advance faster than other components.
c. Ministry of Public Health (MSPP). The MARNDR made significant efforts and showed
dynamism and leadership to reach to the MSPP and involve other actors and donors in
addressing the problem early on. However, although an inter-institutional agreement on AI
was reached between MARNDR and MSPP for project execution, no MSPP staff were
appointed to liaise with the project (with the exception of one consultant), despite
MARNDR’s efforts to get a counterpart nominated. Given the small amount of resources and
the changes in health agenda priorities at the global and national level, MSPP disengaged
from the project, resulting in health activities underperforming compared to other
components.

2.2.4 Poor performance of the fiduciary agency.              In the first year, technical and
procurement documents held by IICA were not processed due to IICA’s ignorance of Bank
procedures and lack of commitment to the project, creating serious implementation delays.
Procurement requests were frequently incomplete, incorrect or in the wrong format, creating
long lead-times for procurement processes. No fiduciary training was anticipated for IICA as
the reason for hiring a fiduciary agent was to avoid having to spend resources and time in
building fiduciary capacity. Supervision actions helped address this problem (e.g. hiring of
procurement specialists by the PCU and IICA respectively, and IICA dedicating a project
coordination to follow up on project activities). IICA did improve procurement processes and
quality, but only towards the end of the project.

2.2.5 Mid-Term Review (MTR). Like for most of the Haiti portfolio the MTR was
conducted 1 year later than originally planned (mid 2011 instead of mid 2010) because the
closing date was pushed back by 1 year due to the earthquake and the Bank team didn’t
consider appropriate conduct a MTR only months after the earthquake with a cholera outbreak
in the country. Recommendations by the Mid-term Review (MTR) helped narrow project
activities down to a handful of key outcomes, focus on strengthening general disease
surveillance capacity rather than on strengthening AHI surveillance alone (as the actual threat
of HPAI proved to be very low during implementation), and improve fiduciary performance


                                              8
by identifying problems and recommending measures to accelerate procurement. IICA’s
improved pro-activity in leading periodic reviews of procurement requests also helped
accelerate procurement following the MTR.
2.2.6 Evolution of approach to communications.                  Initial work centered on the
development of a national Avian Influenza Strategic Communications Plan, the development
of conventional printed materials, targeted training of health and veterinary workers and
market traders, and an avian influenza phone-in program on national radio. During this phase,
activities were principally driven by dedicated funding provided by the project. By 2010,
problems with the consultant and dwindling interest from MSPP, encouraged MARNDR to
take the lead in concluding activities under the communications component, printing
communications materials and distributing them throughout the country through GSBs and
local MARNDR offices. The Strategic Communications Plan is an important contribution in
the case of a future outbreak, even if the general population campaigns were not executed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 M&E design. The Project used the National Plan indicators, which were developed in
a collaborative manner, notwithstanding the fact that a number of the indicators related to
activities for which financing did not materialize. This was a deliberate choice to show
support to the National Plan and lessen burden on government capacity to manage different
sources of funding. The choice of project indicators, which was not based on the GPAI,
required a monitoring system that was not yet in place in Haiti. The project lacked a clear
M&E methodology, M&E capacity building activities, and clear responsibilities and
procedures. The results framework had a mixture of output and outcome indicators for each
component. In retrospect the Project might have only used indicators which related directly to
what the IDA Grant financed, however given the emergency nature of the Project it is
possible that pre-selected Project-specific indicators would have had to be revised during the
implementation based on the support which the Project ultimately provided.

2.3.2 M&E implementation and utilization. MARNDR used their existing M&E system
(based mainly on mobile phone communications with GSBs). Values were regularly reported
by MARNDR (though sometimes with delay and only on request), but MSPP was absent
from reporting on the human health indicators. The MARNDR maintained the complete set
of indicators throughout implementation of the Project and strengthened GSB’s reporting
system. The aide-mémoires of supervision missions captured all the indicators, but with some
of them, it was difficult to verify independently given that most of the information was
captured through phone conversations and with no written records. Annex 3 provides a
critical assessment of each indicator.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Safeguard compliance. The safeguard triggered by the Project was for the
Environmental Assessment. Requirements included the preparation of an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP), which was drafted during preparation, and finalized within the 6
months after project effectiveness. The EMP was disclosed in Haiti and by the Bank after
consultation with key stakeholders. The Project was required to comply with standards of the
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) but standards achieved were considered
modest, in part due to practical difficulties in complying with such standards in Haiti (limited
capacity; lack of infrastructure; resistance to adopting new practices). Supervision at the sites
of the quarantine posts revealed a lack of adherence to proper environmental construction


                                               9
etiquette in one of them (Belladere Quarantine Facility). Although the site was not yet
operational as of project closing, the issues were raised with MARNDR to be addressed
expeditiously before the opening of the post.

2.4.2 Financial management. The Fiduciary Agency (IICA) had suitably qualified
financial management staff to support implementation of the Project. Hiring of the audit firm
was delayed, but project compliance with the requirement to present Quarterly Intermediate
Financial Reports, maintain the financial management system, and present annual financial
audits was satisfactory.

2.4.3 Procurement. Procurement under the Project was managed by the Fiduciary Agency
(IICA). As mentioned in Section 2.2 above, during the first 2 years of project execution,
procurement requests were frequently incomplete, incorrect or in the wrong format, creating
long lead-times for procurement processes. No fiduciary training had been anticipated for
IICA as the reason for hiring a fiduciary agent was to avoid having to spend resources and
time in building fiduciary capacity. Supervision actions helped address this problem and
IICA did improve procurement processes and quality, but only towards the end of the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 The Project was closed early, on June 30, 2012 with several activities still to be
completed. Implementation of the National Plan improved some core animal health and
human health capacities and allowed for coordination between the two systems. The
achievements are, however, modest relative to the remaining capacity gaps. The government
will require substantial financial and technical assistance for further development of capacity
and for operations and maintenance of the assets already acquired. During project
implementation, the Bank worked closely with DPSA and Development Partners to develop a
programmatic approach to animal health, including pending AI activities within the animal
health program of MARNDR (financed by various donors), including the RESEPAG II
Project (P126744), to secure funding. However, activities under the responsibility of MSPP
were not included in RESEPAG II, and mobilization of such resources for human health
systems is not a priority for donor financing, and investments in prevention tend to be grossly
neglected.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The Project objectives were relevant and important to the Haiti economy, public health,
and poverty-reduction goals. It was designed quickly as an emergency operation and as part
of a financial package to meet the needs of the country for rapid support for its response to an
emergency and for strengthening of the veterinary and public health systems, and their
capacity to work together in detecting and controlling outbreaks of HPAI H5N1 and prepare
to respond to pandemics and similar emergencies. These capacities are dual-purpose, relevant
to other disease outbreaks as well. It also supported preparedness at the national and local
levels to respond to pandemics and similar emergencies. Relevance was maintained even
though conditions on the ground (and thus the focus of human health and communications
activities, for example) changed throughout implementation.




                                              10
3.1.2 The objectives remain highly relevant even now as outbreaks of HPAI H5N1 in
poultry continue in more than 12 countries, including countries like Mexico. The risk to
economies and public health of outbreaks of zoonotic and other infectious diseases persists
and represents a substantial contingent liability on the economy and the government’s budget.
In the future the government will need to resource and coordinate the veterinary and human
public health services to respond rapidly to any HPAI H5N1 outbreaks in poultry, monitor for
signs of transmission of the H5N1 virus to the human population, as well as detect and
respond to other infectious disease outbreaks. The Project’s lessons learnt in this regard are a
precedent on which the government and its partners can build.

3.1.3 The global risk of pandemics that originate in livestock or wildlife is rising; capacity
for early detection and control of zoonotic pathogens at their animal source thus remains an
important goal. This goal is embodied in the International Health Regulations (IHR 2005),
which have been adopted by all countries, including Haiti, and in a growing recognition of
risks at the interfaces between animal, human, and the environmental health. Concern with
mitigation of these risks leads to acceptance of One Health approaches, which entail
strengthening public health systems and animal health systems and enabling communication
and collaboration at the interface.

3.1.4 Pandemic preparedness remains relevant to Haiti as well since a pandemic could occur
in the future. This is all the more likely because prevention of pandemics through control of
pathogens at their animal source is currently hindered by pervasive weaknesses of public
veterinary health and human public health systems, in Haiti and in many other developing
countries. OIE’s assessment of Haiti’s veterinary services in 2011 found that capacities are
extremely weak and preclude performance of nearly all essential functions; moreover, many
government staff with veterinary training will be retiring in the next decade and there is no
pipeline of replacements. The Project’s objectives thus remain relevant from both country
and regional/global perspectives.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The Project partially achieved its PDO, but there are problems of attribution
(magnitude of the PDO indicators) and of the reliability of some values reported (see Annex
5). The objectives as stated can be divided into two: (i) minimization of the threat posed by
HPAI and other zoonoses: and (ii) increasing prevention, control and preparedness. Annex 6
contains the Results Matrix with achievements as of the closing date, and the overall
achievements are measured in the four overarching outcome indicators (Table below).

  Indicator                                                            Baseline   Target   Achieved
  Outcome indicators (PDO)
  24 communal sections remain free of AHI infection in poultry            0        24         24
  Half of the 50 communal sections that send weekly surveillance
                                                                          2        25         20
  report on time
  Decrease in the time taken to report information on poultry
                                                                          7         4         2
  diseases at local level (days)
  2800 of backyard poultry farmers currently applying at least three
                                                                          0       2800      767*
  prescriptions to protect their poultry and/or family
(*) Estimate based on pilot initiatives financed by the project.

    (a) Minimizing the threat posed by HPAI and other zoonoses (partially achieved)




                                                      11
3.2.2 The 24 communal sections targeted by the PDO indicator are reported to remain free
of AHI infection in poultry (these 24 communes are based on a domain of 50 communal
sections11). At the National level, according to DPSA, all 570 communal sections of the
country remain free of HPAI, and over 80% are free of LPAI. Nevertheless, it is difficult to
objectively state whether the threat of HPAI was minimized at the country level, as LPAI did
spread beyond its source (border communal sections)12. However, since: (i) it is difficult to
know what would have occurred without the Project in terms of dissemination of LPAI within
Haiti, (ii) the potential mutation of the virus is unknown, and (iii) given the increased number
of reporting and capacity building of GSBs and human health agents; this objective is
considered to be partially achieved.

     (b) Increasing prevention, surveillance and preparedness (partially achieved)
3.2.3 Prevention measures (partially achieved). There was no estimate of how many
farmers were applying prescriptions13, or how many prescriptions were applied and which
kind, by closing. However, it is estimated (through Census data) that 767 farmer were
applying prescriptions by project closing, as they were benefiting from prevention and
epidemiological surveillance promoted through the confinement of poultry (59 units of 150
hens in lay were financed across 9 departments14), a total 8,850 hens in lay. This increase
represents an 18% increase in the number of farms practicing modern poultry farming
techniques in the country (4,172 farms raised poultry using modern techniques according to
the agricultural census) and possibly applying prescriptions. According to DPSA, an
estimated 85% of communal sections (i.e. 484) had adequately trained GSBs (farmers and
veterinarians) as of June 30, 2012. The Project trained 5,000 farmers and 40 veterinary agents
across 484 communal sections, and 400 health professionals. These included 70 veterinarians
and 330 human health professionals. The Project also financed the preparation of a training
manual on AHI and other acute respiratory infections which was distributed to public health
professionals. Limitations to decision-making on prevention and control of AI have been
reduced by the strengthening of the GSBs and communications with MARNDR, however
some still persist, such as: (i) the limited access to vaccines and medicines for logistical
reasons or lack of resources; (ii) farmers’ knowledge that the sub-type of AI present in Haiti
poses little risk to human health; and (iii) limited knowledge by MARNDR about the current
distribution of AI in the country.

3.2.4 The AHI communications strategy was finalized in November 2011 but the
communication campaign while ready to launch in February 2012, was not fully implemented.
This was due to a delays in preparing the communications strategy document (consultant
became ill), obtaining formal approval, and to a lack of coordination between the PCU, MSPP
and IICA. The Project conducted preventive communication campaigns at a smaller scale by
distributing 5000 flyers and 1000 posters with basic information on AI to farmers and local
MARNDR offices and GSBs.



11
   These corresponded to: (i) the 44 communal sections of the 16 communes having a border with the DR; plus
(ii) the 6 communal sections of the 2 communes that were the original source of the infection (Miragoane and
Limonade). Priority was given to these areas for monitoring because they appeared more vulnerable to an
influenza outbreak
12
   Although no mutation of the H1N2 virus was observed in Haiti, the threat from LPAI can be regarded as a
potential source of HPAI threat, due to the possible mutation of the virus.
13
   Prescriptions are methods to prevent disease transmission among animals and from animals to humans.
14
   All departments except Grande Anse.


                                                    12
3.2.5 Surveillance (partially achieved). Concerning clinical surveillance, DPSA reported
that in 20 out of 25 communal sections reports were sent on time (reports provided by GSB
veterinary agents via the DDAs15), thanks to the strengthening of GSBs. These reports are
based on information provided by DPSA, but no systematic recording, archiving or
monitoring system for reports was in place as of project closing. DPSA estimated that the
time to report information on poultry diseases at the local level (by GSBs to DDAs) was
reduced to two days due to the use of cellular phones. . Concerning active epidemiological
surveillance, the number of laboratory-tested samples increased from 3,131 in 2009-2010, to
3,884 in 2010-2011, and 169 and 16 cases respectively were positive for LPAI, indicating a
decrease in LPAI prevalence. The National Laboratory underwent restructuring (IADB-
financed) lasting 1.5 years and was therefore non-operational for part of the Project (so there
was an inability to process samples), but its virology section remained open. Compared to the
pre-project period, the number of laboratory-tested samples increased, but active
epidemiological surveillance declined due to restructuring works and laboratory
reorganization. Despite these temporary issues, it is admitted that the Laboratory capacity to
carry out tests was strengthened by the Project.

3.2.6 The surveillance capacity of some 5,000 farmers, 40 veterinary agents, and 400 health
professionals was strengthened by the Project. No information was available to assess the
effectiveness or impact of training. The project also trained 6 laboratory staff in AHI
diagnosis and 15 inspectors for animal quarantine. However, the extent to which this
contributed to improving disease control at the border and within the country is limited by the
continued weakness of quarantine structures. The Project also financed a taxonomic study on
migratory birds, which identified the species of migratory birds in Haiti and collected updated
data on their migratory patterns. This study supports future assessments of AI risk in the
island. Project activities included a census of the poultry sector and the creation of a
monitoring system. Software was developed but the census coverage was smaller compared
to what it could have been (190,000 questionnaires compared to an estimated potential of
400,000 based on interest expressed by GSBs), and as of project closing, the questionnaires
were not fully digitized.

3.2.7 Actual preparedness and response (partially achieved). Preparedness for an AI
outbreak was integrated in the content of trainings for farmers, veterinarians, quarantine
agents and public health professionals. The indicator for the number of additional outbreaks
responded to in a given period is difficult to measure, since the lack of an additional outbreak
could be due to the Project or due to external factors (e.g., lack of global/regional outbreaks).
However, the successful completion of a simulation exercise of HPAI outbreak and the farmer
compensation mechanism put in place by the Government to undertake culling activities in 2
boarder areas to try to eradicate LPAI early on, is a notable achievement. Implementation
arrangements were efficient and rates were attractive enough to encourage farmers to report
suspect events. Prompt reporting is essential for preventing spread of the disease. This
success can be explained, in part, by the existence of a compensation scheme that the
MARNDR had already put in place before the Project started. However, an important project
accomplishment that is key for preparedness and response, was the strengthening of the
GSBs: 50 communal federations of GSBs were established by the Project out of a total 100.
In addition, two departmental federations were established (in the North-West and Center
departments). Overall, in addition to helping reinforce the prevention, surveillance and


15
     DDAs are MARNDRs offices at the department level


                                                    13
response system in the country, the strengthening of GSBs has helped improve cooperation
and trust between government authorities and local communities. Finally, the public health
system did improve its core capacities through training of human health agents for:
surveillance and response to infectious disease outbreaks.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 The investments under the National Plan were worthwhile from an economic
perspective. The total financing package was US$ 2.877 million, but only US$1.4 million
materialized and was spent. The IDA grant disbursed US$1.27 million of US$1.56 million
(81% of the Grant), while the US$ 1million AHIF TF never materialized. Most resources
were disbursed within the final year and months before project closing and have led to the
strengthening of public services and GSBs. The specific outcomes are described above and in
the results framework indicators. They show partial achievement in improved performance in
response to outbreaks (resulting in their effective containment) and in core public health
capacity related to AHI. Today HPAI is spreading in a number of developing countries,
including in the LAC region, but not in Haiti.

3.3.2 The benefits of these partial achievements, in particular in animal health, are clear. In
the improvements in disease monitoring and control (i.e., early detection, correct diagnosis,
and implementation of all necessary control measures), the poultry sector would have been
less prepared in case of an outbreak, and controlling the disease would have become far more
costly. Plausible assumptions about disease spread yield a benefit from preventing such a
spread of between US$50 and 60 million (80% of the value of poultry production are
expected to be lost due to HPAI). The capacity for effective disease prevention and control
that has been acquired for animal health will persist into the future as the GoH is committed to
maintain the necessary budget allocation.

3.3.3 As noted above, substantial additional investments are warranted to strengthen animal
health systems, in particular, to enable control of zoonotic diseases at the animal source,
where contagion can be stopped most cost-effectively. Public health systems also need
further investments. If such investments are made in the coming decade then, using
conservative assumptions, the expected annual costs of prevention would be 2.14% of the
overall value of the annual poultry production value. These attractive rates of return reflect
the very strong economic case for disease prevention. However, some activities financed by
the IDA Grant, such as ……. did not produce sustainable outcomes as of project. Others were
not fully implemented as of project closing, but with a significant likelihood of being put in
place by MARNDR under other programs such as RESEPAG II. Such activities include: (i)
the communications strategy; (ii) the survey of livestock producers; and (iii) the quarantine
posts.

3.3.4 Finally, efficiencies were achieved mainly by emphasizing coordination so as to avoid
duplication and using common inputs (e.g., training materials and communication strategy) in
activities financed by the project and Government. More broadly, and especially during the
later years of the National Plan, a shortage of donor financing and limited funding available
from resources managed by the World Bank encouraged a focus on extracting the greatest
impact from the resources available.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating




                                              14
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

3.4.1 Justification of the overall outcome rating is as follows: (i) Relevance: Project
objectives and activities, although ambitious, remain relevant to the animal and human health
priorities of the country and the need for cross sector collaboration; (ii) Achievement of PDO:
There were moderate shortcomings in the Project’s achievement of its stated development
objectives and partial achievement of PDO indicators as measured by the executing agency;
and (iii) Efficiency: If the fully funded project is considered, overall investment sustainability
of project activities are questionable with 50% of the original financing package disbursed
(81% of the IDA Grant), some activities (in particular the human health component) not
completed, and the limited impact and benefits of the Project. However, there are still large
net benefits to be accounted for from the fact that no HPAI outbreak materialized in the
country and that improvements in the public sector animal health framework and GSBs were
achieved (see Section 3.2 above for detailed justification).

In terms of the Justification of the outcome rating by component:
    a. Animal Health: The rating for outcomes on animal health is Moderately Satisfactory
       (MS) due to the commitment of MARNDR to use project activities and funding
       towards building capacity at the Government and GSB level on prevention,
       surveillance and response. MARNDR was able to lead the inter-sectoral coordination
       on AI, as well as the bilateral collaboration with the Dominican Republic. Given the
       sustainability of activities related to animal health provided by the preparation,
       approval and financing of a programmatic approach, an MS rating is appropriate.
    b. Human Health: The rating for outcomes on human health is Unsatisfactory (U) due to
       the lack of commitment and participation of MSPP in project activities, and the delays
       and lack of execution of planned activities under Component 2. Furthermore,
       financing of activities human health activities related to AHI is uncertain as of project
       closing, and thus investments in capacity building and communications may not be
       able to be sustained and/or implemented going forward.
    c. Communications: The rating for outcomes on communications related to AHI is
       Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) given that the strategic communication plan was
       indeed prepared and approved by MARNDR, MSPP, and endorsed by Donors; but it
       was done with significant delays and never fully implemented.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 Poverty impact and gender aspect. H5N1 influenza outbreaks initially affect the
poultry population, but, if not contained, they could directly and indirectly affect the majority
of the human population of the country since most households raise poultry. In particular, in
Haiti, more than half of farming households have poultry living in, or within 5 meters of, their
house. Poultry keeping is widespread among family farms throughout Haiti, though with
some concentration in the Centre Department. It is estimated that over 90% of family farms
keep some poultry, mostly chicken of local breed (poulet créole) usually with 3 to 18 head per
farm (also, in some farms, 2 to 5 heads of turkeys, ducks or guinea fowls) including adults
and young birds. Traditional poultry production provides a major income-generating activity
for farm households from the sale of birds and eggs and it represents one of the few
opportunities for saving and investment by rural households. Income generation is the
primary goal of family poultry keeping. Eggs can provide a regular, albeit small, income
while the sale of live birds provides a flexible source of cash as and when needed, for instance


                                               15
to pay school fees, for a wedding or unexpected expenses such as medicines. Occasional
consumption provides a valuable source of protein in the family diet. Poultry also plays an
important socio-cultural role in Haiti, including cock fights and religious practices. Poultry is
often raised by women and children in Haiti. Spread of avian influenza in Haiti would thus
have had a devastating impact on these vulnerable groups. Since such disease outbreaks did
not occur, the poor benefited. If the capacity created under this Project is further developed,
improved livestock health would reduce a major source of vulnerability of the poor and
improve Haiti’s prosperity, food security, and nutrition. The Project contributed through the
strengthening of GSBs (20% of GSB composition are women) as well to prevention of
pandemic influenza (to an unknowable extent) and to preparedness. A pandemic would hit
the poor the hardest, in Haiti and elsewhere. Preparedness to mitigate the impact of this
potentially catastrophic shock thus has an important pro-poor bias; this benefit will be realized
when a pandemic occurs.

3.5.2 Social development. Without the Project in Haiti (and in neighboring Dominican
Republic), the spread of HPAI would have been more likely in Hispaniola. A severe
pandemic could have occurred instead of, or in addition to, the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. In
those events, the entire Hispaniola population would have been affected, possibly with severe
economic and social disruptions and increases in poverty, as mentioned above. The project
helped strengthen animal health capacity and developed a communication strategy that would
help in the prevention of such potentially devastating impacts on the entire society. However,
the communications plans, and the inter-institutional collaboration and monitoring plan for
AHI will need to be periodically exercised through simulations and updated as warranted for
the expected benefits (mitigation of pandemic impact on society and the economy) to
materialize.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.3 Adoption of an integrated approach to disease control. An important project
outcome was the change of paradigm in animal disease management from one focusing on
specific diseases, to a holistic approach focusing on all diseases. Furthermore, the Bank and
Development Partners, supported MARNDR’s adoption of a programmatic approach to
animal health, developing a five-year investment plan, and identifying the different sources of
financing. This holistic and programmatic approach is expected to improve the efficiency in
dealing with emerging infectious diseases and zoonoses in the future.

3.5.4 Bi-national cooperation. The DR and Haiti prepared a draft to expand a phyto-
sanitary agreement signed by both countries in 1996, in particular to include other ministries.
This new draft is not yet signed, but the two governments have met annually to coordinate
actions. The DR also prepared a bi-national document to determine the perimeter of areas
infected with H5N1. Several training events are planned under the stewardship of WHO and
PAHO or IICA, in the DR and in Haiti.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.5 Adoption of a policy strategy and draft legal code for animal health. A policy
strategy document on animal health covering the period from 2010 to 2014 was prepared by




                                               16
MARNDR 16 . It delineates the GoH’s specific strategy for animal production and health,
which is estimated to require investments of US$20 million. DPSA prepared a draft Code of
Laws on Animal Health and Veterinary Public Health, which was reviewed with the
assistance of a mission of the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) in February 2012,
and sent to the office of the Prime Minister for consideration. This draft is preliminary and
would require specific laws for its implementation; but it constitutes a first effort to
institutionalize surveillance procedures in Haiti. DPSA intends to continue improving this
draft with the help of a legal specialist (financed by the IADB). Important changes proposed
by this draft law include the legal status of GSBs, the transfer of food safety prerogatives from
MSPP to MARNDR, and a system to identify livestock and regulate slaughter. Though this
was an intended outcome supported by the Bank during project implementation, it serves to
illustrate how a program based on a single-disease impetus can generate wider and lasting
policy and investment reform.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

4.1.1 On animal health and communications, the risk to development outcomes is moderate
given the adoption of a programmatic approach to investments in animal health and the
existence of a communications plan (with certain activities implemented). Progress was also
made in improving the performance of veterinary services (GSB). It is likely that capacity
strengthening and institutional integration will be maintained in the medium term as financing
has been secured. The outcomes of project-financed training are likely to be maintained over
the next five years due to the identification of an animal health program financed by the
Government and Donors, however the long-term remains uncertain if there is no follow-up on
some of the basic reforms identified by the OIE.

4.1.2 On human health, the risk to development outcomes is significant, as several outputs
remain unachieved due to the early closing of the Project and the lack of commitment from
MSPP during project implementation. The national human health and animal health
laboratories will need sufficient resources for their operations and maintenance. There is a
risk that these resources will not be provided on a regular, sustained basis, in particular on
human health. The animal health laboratory has secured financing through 2016. As noted
above, coordination across sectors of the multisectoral actions required for zoonotic disease
control and prevention was a strong feature of the National Plan, but incentives for
participation were not adequately design. MSPP did not participate in regular meetings due to
persistent weak capacity and shift in priorities. Institutionalizing a One Health approach
under the leadership of the Prime Minster or Minister of Planning could be an option that
could support essential work on zoonotic disease control and prevention; this would mitigate
an important risk to the sustainability of the partial outcomes of the Project.

4.1.3 Coordination among partners worked well originally primarily because the World
Bank, FAO, and USAID provided the necessary coordination services. This has now


16
   Grandes lignes d’action pour le développement de la santé animale en Haiti. 2010-2014. MARNDR. 2010.
http://agriculture.gouv.ht/view/01/IMG/pdf/Texte_SanteAnimale_-_MARNDR_2010.pdf


                                                   17
diminished, and partners have re-focused on other programs, in particular in human health.
On animal health, they did engage in the preparation of a 5 year investment program, which is
now fully funded. Also, OIE prepared the assessment of Performance of Veterinary Services
(PVS) and Gap Analysis.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1 Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory
because although the Bank responded in a timely fashion to a growing global and local threat
of AHI, there were shortcomings in the Project’s design and preparation. First, the Bank
under-estimated the fiduciary capacity of MARNDR to manage project funds and
procurement. IICA’s capacity as fiduciary agency, in turn, was not adequately assessed.
Another shortcoming was the dependency of funding of activities on a full financial package
that did not materialize with the cancelation of the AHIF grant, making the objectives of the
IDA Grant too broad and unrealistic with respect to the funding available. Indicators lacked a
supporting M&E methodology, hindering the independent assessment of project outcomes.
Nevertheless, the Project and component’s objectives permitted flexibility in prioritizing
activities and adapting to a changing AHI context, maintaining the Project’s relevance
throughout implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.2 Bank supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory given that it proactively addressed
the main obstacles to implementation, conducting regular missions, candidly rating ISRs, and
ultimately, closing the Project early due to systemic delays.

5.1.3 Satisfactory identification, follow up, and action to confront the main threats to
implementation. The Bank was proactive in identifying and attempting early on and
throughout implementation to resolve procurement delays, including considering the
possibility of transferring procurement responsibilities to MARNDR (from February 2009),
and by systematically evaluating IICA’s capacity, proposing actions and verifying progress
(see Annex 6 for a description of Bank actions). It could be argued that the Bank should have
closed the project even earlier, but it was not possible to predict how IICA would react to
requests from both the GoH and the Bank to improve performance. In sum, the approach
undertaken by the Bank was risky but justifiable in view of Project objectives, the ownership
and commitment demonstrated by MARNDR, and the lack of an alternative acceptable to the
GoH. The Bank also played an important role in stressing the importance of integrating all
diseases into the GoH’s prevention, surveillance and control strategy, and to prepare a
medium term program for all animal health activities; which represents an important
paradigm shift for disease management in the country. Finally, supervision missions were
done regularly by both livestock and human health specialists, as well as by the environmental
safeguards specialists.




                                             18
5.1.4 Project’s Indicators and M&E system. The Bank had the opportunity to assess and
improve the Project’s M&E methodology throughout implementation, but priority was placed
in trying to get project activities to accelerate. Nevertheless, the Bank did request frequent
updates on progress of the indicators and received complete reports from DPSA.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.5 Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory due to the Bank’s under
performance during project preparation and designed, tempered by an appropriate response to
a potential crisis and an acceptable performance during supervision. Main deficiencies
include weak institutional arrangements and capacity (across ministries and in fiduciary
matters), which could have been predicted or prevented with actions to promote efficiency
and improved borrower capacity17.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.1 The National Steering Committee of Avian Influenza met infrequently and irregularly
and was not reactivated as proposed in the National Plan. The GoH acknowledged
disbursement delays early in implementation, flagging the project as a risky operation, but
was not proactive in proposing a solution. It also allowed for the AHIF TF to expire and 35%
of the overall financing package not to materialize. However, it did work with the Bank to
transfer pending animal health activities into RESEPAG II and requested the early closing of
the project. Finally, the lack of MSPP involvement in the Project did not produce a better
integration between participants of the National Commission, which was an important aim of
the National Plan.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.2 MARNDR-DPSA. The performance of MARNDR-DPSA is rated Satisfactory.
DPSA demonstrated strong project ownership and leadership, significant co-financing
resources. The DPSA was proactive in identifying, monitoring and seeking to resolve
problems with a strong focus on delivering outcomes. DPSA closely monitored procurement
requests and approvals, sought improvements in performance from IICA (mostly
unsuccessfully), sought other funds to implement project activities (e.g. resources from the
Haitian public treasury during the first year of the project as well as IADB), and led the
exercise to develop a programmatic approach to animal health investments in Haiti. DPSA
also tried to involve MSPP in the Project proactively. Finally, it provided timely feedback on
progress of project indicators. Shortcomings included poor oversight of Safeguards in the
construction of one of the Quarantine Posts (not yet operational) and the missed opportunity
to strengthen their M&E system.

5.2.3 MSPP. The performance of MSPP was Unsatisfactory. There was very little
participation by MSPP in the Project. MSPP relied almost exclusively on a consultant (hired


17
   According to the latter, when the rating of quality at entry is in the unsatisfactory range and the rating of
supervision is in the satisfactory range, the overall rating must be based on the Outcome rating.


                                                      19
by the project) to liaise with DPSA and implement project activities. The PCU met with
MSPP several times to develop activities, but MSPP lacked adequate personnel involved in
the Project to follow up on decisions. Lack of prioritization of AHI within the national human
health agenda was a key factor, as well as the reduced amount of resources allocated to human
health within the project (14% of project costs).

5.2.4      IICA. IICA performance as fiduciary agency is rated Unsatisfactory. IICA’s lack
of fiduciary capacity and poor performance caused continuous implementation delays. As
fiduciary agency, they did not provide a solution to its inability to handle procurement
requests until very late in the Project, despite requests from the Bank and the GoH.
Ultimately, IICA hired a procurement specialist dedicated to the Project but very late in
November 2011, following recommendations by the MTR. Procurement processes did
improve after the MTR and the hiring of a dedicated procurement specialist, but they did not
accelerate implementation to execute all project activities before the closing date of the
project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.5 Overall Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory on balance taking
into account strengths and weakness of the various institutions (MSPP, MARNDR, IICA)
measured against mitigating circumstances (earthquake, cholera outbreak, swine flu) which
were beyond the control of the implementing agency and aggregate achievement of objectives.
The borrower achieved most of the targets in the results framework, but fell short in others,
and sustainability of actions, in particular in human health, is not guaranteed.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1.1 The following lessons are among the most important:
   x   Close coordination and cooperation between animal health and human health are
       key to successful implementation of investments. The involvement of all concerned
       partners from the government (MARNDR, MSPP, MEF), with sound inputs from
       technical international agencies and vision from the donors’ community led initially to
       the design of a comprehensive plan, which prioritized activities, avoided overlaps and
       major gaps in the activities.          However, incentives for participating in the
       implementation of the plan were not thoroughly addressed in the plan, and MEF and
       MSPP did not follow up on the implementation phase, in particular as the sense of
       urgency diminished and the intensity of consultations decreased. A minimum level of
       coordination was sustained thanks to the MARNDR’s and Bank’s persistent emphasis
       on the need for multi-sectorality. The lesson for this project, and numerous GPAI
       projects world-wide, is that collaboration across sectors remains a challenge beyond
       the initial formulation of the strategic plan and requires substantial dedicated resources
       and strong Government Leadership above technical ministries (such as Prime Minister
       or MEF).
   x   The establishment of a medium to long-term prevention and control program is
       required.     Transitioning from emergency response to medium-term system
       strengthening was envisaged in the design of the National Plan. Emergency response
       mainly consisted of establishing a compensation mechanism, procuring materials, and
       active communications efforts. The transition was successful in the area of animal
       health with the preparation and approval of a 5 year programmatic investment plan on

                                              20
       animal health, but not successful in the area of human health. The lesson for this
       project and other animal health interventions is that even if responding to a disease-
       specific emergency, interventions also need to focus on systemic improvements and
       basic capacity building which are sustainable in the medium to long term.
   x   Mitigation measures to close a financing gap should be part of appraisal. The
       PDO and indicators were established based on a financing plan that included other
       sources of funding aside from the IDA Grant (including AHIF TF and Government
       resources), so the objectives were broad and several activities were structured based
       on shared financing. Although broad project objectives allowed for a single project
       being designed under several sources of financing as well as allowed flexibility during
       implementation to adjust activities as the emergency situation evolved, the lesson
       learnt from this project is that a balance must be found between allowing for such
       flexibility and structured financing, and introducing mitigation measures to ensure the
       achievement of results even when original financing sources do not come through.
       One such mitigation measure could be a narrower definition of project objectives, in
       particular when operating in a country where institutional capacity is weak and policy
       strategies are still in the making.
   x   Institutional strengthening in project management is the pillar to success in
       fragile contexts, in particular for emergency operations. As implementation
       capacity is sine qua non for the smooth implementation of any project, it is a crucial
       part of project appraisal, particularly in institutionally weak States and in emergency
       operations. In the case of this project, the contracting of a fiduciary agency was seen
       as an alternative to be able to rapidly implement the project, but in hindsight, it was to
       the detriment of the project. The lesson learnt is that for emergency projects in
       particular, an assessment of institutional needs (personnel, training, facilities, logistics
       and equipment), including the fiduciary agency, needs to be thoroughly carried out
       during project preparation to identify the most efficient implementation arrangements,
       and to provide for the strengthening of project management throughout the life of the
       Project.
   x   A flexible and timely response is critical. In this project, as well as globally, there
       were high uncertainties and limited knowledge about the likelihood of a HPAI
       outbreak. The preparation of a project in response to the request of the GoH was
       timely and the design of the project allowed for refocusing the project interventions
       during implementation, prioritizing the strengthening of animal health systems (over
       human health systems) in order to be able to detect and respond rapidly to any HPAI
       H5N1 outbreaks in poultry, monitor for signs of transmission of the virus to the
       human population, as well as detect and respond to other infectious disease outbreaks.
       The achievement under the project demonstrated the importance of understanding the
       evolution of AI epidemiology so that control measures may be adapted to achieve the
       maximum sustainable impact. The project also showed that strengthening local
       capacity for early detection and control of zoonotic pathogens at their animal source
       should be a priority for decision-makers to confront real and immediate threats to
       human and animal health.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                               21
7.1.1 DPSA disagreed with the decision of the Bank and the MEF to close the project early,
stressing that this decision was taken when implementation activities had finally taken off.
Bank’s response: This reaction is understandable considering the commitment of DPSA and
efforts to accelerate the project. However, the joint decision of the Bank and GoH came after
several unsuccessful attempts to accelerate project implementation and was also motivated by
the opportunity to group fiduciary management under RESEPAG II for higher efficiency.
7.1.2 DPSA has also questioned the imposition of environmental precautions that are difficult
to implement in Haiti.
Bank’s response: environmental management standards were clearly stated in the EMP
submitted by the MARNDR and which underwent consultations.
7.1.3 The Borrower was very satisfied with the ICR, saying it provided an exhaustive
synthesis of Project activities and of the challenges it faced throughout implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                              22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                          millions)

1. Animal Health                          0.76                     0.66           87%
2. Public health                          0.21                     0.17           80%
3. Communication                          0.38                     0.34           89%
4. Administration                         0.13                     0.11           85%
5. Un-allocated                           0.07                     0               -
                Total Project Costs       1.56                     1.27           81%
        Total Financing Required          1.56                     1.27           81%




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                        Type of        Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                      Cofinancing        (USD            (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)       millions)
Borrower                                            0.57            0.3           52%
AHIF TF                                             1.00            0             0%
IDA Grant                                           1.56            1.27          81%




                                            23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The indicators related to Components were the following:
 Results Indicators (Component Level)                            Baseline    Target    Achieved
 At least two additional outbreaks responded in a given period      0           2         *
 12 laboratory staff trained in AHI diagnosis by the project        0          12         6
 40 communal sections adequately covered by trained staff        Unknown       40        484
 Development of communications strategy                           Draft     Approved   Approved
 Health Personnel receiving training under the project              0          42        400
 * No outbreak was recorded during project implementation.

The main results per component are the following:

Component 1: Animal health: financed support for prevention, surveillance, and
preparedness for any AI outbreak. It included activities to provide knowledge on the status of
AI in Haiti; to strengthen facilities for early detection and mitigation of the potential impacts
of AI, predominantly quarantine facilities; and to test sanitary measures in the context of
small farm poultry production. It had a national coverage and comprised three sub-
components: (i) Pilot community actions through GSBs; (ii) Emergency actions; and (iii) Sub-
Institutional capacity building (MARNDR). The outputs achieved were the following:

    a. Taxonomic study of wild bird species in Haiti: This study identified the different
       migratory birds and collected information through 8 different areas in the country
       between 2010-2011.
    b. Laboratory testing of Samples: During 2009/2010 3131 samples were tested for Avian
       flu and 169 resulted positive; while during 2010/2011 3884 were tested and 16
       resulted positive.
    c. Strengthening of the epidemiological surveillance network through the establishment
       of 2 GSB federations at the Departmental level (for 2 Departments bordering the
       Dominican Republic) and 50 at communal level.
    d. Avian flu simulation exercise: The MARNDR led a simulation exercise of the
       outbreak of HPAI in the country, with participation of GSBs and staff from the
       Ministry of Agriculture.
    e. Pilot initiatives for improved poultry management: 59 pilot initiatives in 9
       Departments were implemented to train and provide materials to improve the animal
       health and productivity aspects of poultry production.
    f. Training: The following training activities were undertaken on animal health and
       avian flu by the project:
                    i. 5000 farmers
                   ii. 70 veterinary doctors
                  iii. 15 quarantine inspectors
                  iv. 6 laboratory technicians
                   v. 40 veterinary agents
    g. Strengthening of quarantine posts: 2 quarantine posts were constructed at Belladere
       and Ounaminthe border crossing. MARNDR hired 5 new inspectors and the project
       trained them.
    h. Improvement of internal management procedures at DPSA: A manual for
       administrative and financial procedures of DPSA was prepared in order for DPSA to
       be able to better administer government and donor funding going forward.




                                                      24
Component 2: Human health: the project initially planned to financed support for AHI
prevention and mitigation at the national level, through capacity building and epidemiologic
surveillance in the human health sector, and the establishment of an outbreak response
mechanism. Activities planned included capacity building of health staff to improve the
surveillance system and integration of routine surveillance systems and data; simulations to
assess the state of implementation and effectiveness of public health measures; and
information campaigns to increase the level of knowledge of public health staff and the
population at large. However, given the problems mentioned in this report, the only outputs
achieved were the following:

           a. Preparation and approval of a guide for training public health officials on avian
              flu and other severe influenza diseases.
           b. Training of 320 human health agents nation-wide on avian flu for improving
              surveillance and response.
Component 3: Communications: financed support for: (i) raising public awareness of AHI;
(ii) securing political and civil society support; and (iii) preparing animal and human health
institutions for increased demand for advice, products and services in case of an AHI outbreak.
It sought behavioral change to control the spread of the virus, prevent infection, strengthen
surveillance, adopt biosafety procedures and reporting mechanisms, and highlight the required
investments in infrastructure and institutional reforms.

   a. Strategic Communication Plan on Avian Flu: Although with delays, a strategic
      communications plan was prepared and approved by the Government and donors.
   b. Communications Campaign: Following the approved plan, 5000 flyers were
      distributed among poultry producers and 1000 posters were distributed at GSB sites
      and local MARNDR offices for public information.
   c. Workshops and conference: Several workshops and conferences were financed in
      Haiti, as well as the presentation of the avian flu situation in Haiti in international
      conferences on avian flu.




                                              25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The investments under the National Plan were worthwhile from an economic perspective.
The total financing package was US$ 2.877 million, but only US$1.4 million materialized and
was spent. The IDA grant disbursed US$1.27 million of US$1.56 million (81% of the Grant),
while the US$ 1 million AHIF TF never materialized. Most resources were disbursed within
the final year and months before project closing and have led to the strengthening of public
services and GSBs. The specific outcomes show partial achievement in improved
performance in response to outbreaks (resulting in their effective containment) and in core
public health capacity related to AHI. Today HPAI is spreading in a number of developing
countries, including in the LAC region, but not in Haiti.

The benefits of these partial achievements, in particular in animal health, are clear. In the
improvements in disease monitoring and control (i.e., early detection, correct diagnosis, and
implementation of all necessary control measures), the poultry sector would have been less
prepared in case of an outbreak, and controlling the disease would have become far more
costly. Plausible assumptions about disease spread yield a benefit from preventing such a
spread of between US$50 and 60 million (80% of the value of poultry production are
expected to be lost due to HPAI). The capacity for effective disease prevention and control
that has been acquired for animal health will persist into the future; however, on human health
will depend on receiving adequate operating budget.

As noted above, substantial additional investments are warranted in the systems for animal
health, in particular, to enable control of zoonotic diseases at the source, where contagion can
be stopped most cost-effectively. Public health systems also need further investments. If
such investments are made in the coming decade then, using conservative assumptions, the
expected annual costs of prevention would be 2.14% of the overall value of the annual poultry
production value. These attractive rates of return reflect the very strong economic case for
disease prevention. Here below are the details on the methodology and estimates of the
economic analysis of the various potential avian flu control measures.

In general, the economic impacts of avian influenza include:
    x   Direct costs arising from the losses of poultry and production due either to the disease
        itself and/or to control measures such as culling birds (stamping out). These economic
        impacts affect primarily the poultry producers and rural areas. They also extend to
        upstream and downstream sectors such as poultry traders, feed mills, breeding farms
        etc.
    x   Indirect costs and impacts, especially in the case of H5N1 due to the fear of human
        transmission, arising from reduced demand from consumers, trading bans and/or a
        negative impact on activities such as tourism. These indirect impacts, in turn, also
        affect the production sector through changes in demand and prices. They are often
        magnified by uncoordinated efforts to avoid the disease and/or initial panic or
        confusion.
    x   The costs of prevention and control also need to be taken into account, including costs
        to the government of surveillance and diagnosis, hiring of transportation and workers
        for culling and disinfection, purchase of poultry vaccines or medications, etc.
        Governments also face the need to pay compensation to poultry owners, which is
        important in inducing owners not to conceal that a bird flu outbreak has occurred.



                                               26
       While such payment is in the nature of a transfer payment for the economy as a whole,
       it can impose a significant fiscal burden on the government.

The impacts on Haiti of the LPAI H5N2 outbreaks that occurred both in DR and Haiti are
mostly indirect. The cases that were confirmed did not show any clinical sign and, even in the
event that LPAI H5N2 might be widespread or endemic in the island, its direct impact on
production is thought to be small. In this regard, the risk would come mainly from a possible
mutation of the virus into a highly pathogenic strain.

Initial news on the first outbreaks in RD spread quickly and provoked major concern among
the population, both in RD and in Haiti, as there were at first some uncertainties and
confusion with HPAI H5N1 and fear of a possible risk of human transmission. This reportedly
led to a significant decrease in consumption of poultry and eggs, which affected rural as well
as urban areas, but that did not last very long. Poultry farmers met by the mission confirmed
that they stopped eating poultry products for a while, until the matter was cleared and
appropriate information disseminated in Haiti about the nature of LPAI H5N2.

At the same time, Haiti declared a ban on imports of poultry products from RD. In RD, the
combined effect of this ban together with the reduction in demand from domestic consumers
was to create a short glut on the domestic market and downward pressure on prices. In Haiti,
since imports from RD account for a large share of domestic consumption, prices of poultry
and eggs went up. Immediate increases of egg prices by +25% are reported in the press
following the announcement of the import ban by Haiti. As the informal trade in poultry
products is thought to have now been re-established, it is likely that this price hike was short-
lived. Nonetheless, the official import ban and partial substitution of imports from RD with
other more expensive sources has certainly put some upwards pressure on domestic prices of
poultry products in Haiti.

Methodology for economic assessment of options to deal with AI in Haiti

In order to assess which measures or interventions are economically justified going forward
for the prevention and control of avian influenza in Haiti, a simplified cost-benefit analysis
has been developed and is presented below. In this analysis, the costs of prevention and
control measures are compared with the corresponding economic benefits, i.e. the reduction in
economic losses from the disease that is achieved as a result of these measures.

A basic underlying assumption is that for any level or type of expenditure on disease
prevention and control, that expenditure is undertaken in a way that maximizes economic
benefits. To ensure this, however, is not always an easy task. For instance, the effectiveness
and hence actual benefits of stamping out or a vaccination campaign depend on factors such
as timeliness, acceptance or adoption by a sufficient number of farmers, etc.

This preliminary analysis or initial economic assessment considers only the direct impact of
AI on poultry production, under different scenarios (e.g. HPAI, LPAI). As Haiti is an
importing country for poultry products, it is considered that an avian influenza outbreak
within the country, even if it would have a significant impact on domestic production (HPAI),
would not have a significant impact on domestic prices of poultry products, since the country
can continue importing from the rest of the world after the outbreak. Price differences
between different import sources on the world market are considered as negligible. The
impact on production and producers incomes would thus come only from a decrease in



                                               27
volume (quantity) of production.18 The indirect impacts on upstream and downstream sectors
(e.g. poultry traders) are not considered.

The impact of an avian influenza outbreak on domestic consumers is not considered in this
analysis. Such impact would depend on the type of avian influenza, i.e. whether or not there is
a risk of human transmission and casualties. The avian influenza subtypes identified so far in
the Latin America and Caribbean region are not known to create any human health hazards. In
other parts of the world, dissemination of the HPAI H5N1 virus has resulted in significant
drops in consumers demand due to fear of human contamination. This in turn may have an
impact on domestic producers, although in an importing country like Haiti a reduced demand
for poultry products would be expected to translate mainly into a reduction of imports (with
no impact on domestic producer prices). Decrease in consumers’ welfare might nonetheless
be substantial, especially as poultry products are a relatively cheap source of proteins which
would have to be substituted by consumers with more expensive products. This applies to
urban consumers as well as self-consumption in rural areas.

Costs of Avian influenza prevention and control measures

Costs estimates of various AI prevention and control measures are summarized in Table 3.
These estimates have been developed with the help of DPSA’s Service of Epidemiology and
Veterinary Statistics. They have been worked out on an average indicative basis. These
figures should be considered as a preliminary order of magnitude.

The costs of carrying out epidemiological surveillance and having an early warning system
for avian influenza are estimated at a maximum average annual cost of about USD 500,000
per year (HTG 20 million). This estimate has been derived by confronting several sources
including: (i) the budget allocation made by government to implement the program of
epidemiological surveillance for AI; and (ii) actual expenditures on epidemiological
surveillance in 2008 from various sources of funds.

The costs of stamping out or culling infected birds has been estimated on the basis of the
actual costs of these emergency operations carried out by MARNDR, with an average cost of
HTG 502 (about USD 12.5) per bird stamped out. In reality, these costs vary depending on the
actual number of birds to be slaughtered at a given site as there are some economies of scale.
To this direct and immediate cost, the costs of monitoring agents after stamping out must also
be added, as well as the costs of additional epidemiological surveillance after the outbreak
(including sentinel birds), which brings the total to about HTG 894 (USD 22.3) per bird
stamped out.

The total costs of a national vaccination campaign for poultry is estimated at 1,25 million
USD equivalent (HTG 50.2 million). Details are given in Table 3.

Cost-benefit analysis of control measures for an HPAI outbreak

HPAI such as the H5N1 subtype that spread over several countries since 2003 is highly
contagious and leads to a mortality rate over 80% in affected poultry flocks. Haiti is not


18
         Poultry production is widespread in rural areas where it plays an important economic role in income
generation, savings and nutrition. Economic losses and impacts on the rural population of a major outbreak of
HPAI and/or massive culling would therefore have a potentially devastating effect on rural areas, which might
go much farther and deeper than the sole production losses.


                                                      28
known so far to have experienced any HPAI outbreak of any subtype. Such an outbreak could
result from direct introduction through movements of birds or people, or from mutation of an
existing LPAI virus (e.g. LPAI H5N2 into HPAI H5N2).

In national animal disease control campaigns, the speed of detection and response is critical in
stopping a highly contagious and severe disease such as HPAI from spreading. Current
FAO/OIE procedures for control of a HPAI outbreak call for immediate ‘stamping out’
operations as the most appropriate response, which necessitates destruction of all infected and
‘at high risk’ poultry in a defined radius around infected areas. To be effective, stamping out
must be accompanied by control of poultry movement, proper disposal of carcasses and
infective material, and post-cull cleaning of affected farm structures. The compensation
offered to the producer/ farmers for culled poultry is a crucial aspect of the scheme in order to
encourage early reporting of outbreaks, while also encouraging individual preventative
measures at farm level.

Vaccination as a support strategy may be considered when the disease has spread to such an
extent that it has overwhelmed the resources of disease control authorities or the economic
cost of a widespread slaughter campaign cannot be borne. It can also be considered at an
earlier stage when veterinary service infrastructures and capacities prove to be very weak and
insufficient to curb the spread of the disease. Depending on the incidence and distribution of
outbreaks, vaccination may be undertaken around outbreaks (ring vaccination) or throughout
the poultry population (mass vaccination).

Vaccination, when it is applied, must be done in combination with other disease control
measures, including the slaughter of affected flocks, and should be accompanied with an exit
strategy. The high cost of vaccination compared to its perceived benefits, particularly for
village producers, makes it difficult to sustain over a prolonged period.

According to current OIE recommendations, HPAI-vaccinated poultry are not excluded from
international trade, although specific technical guidelines must be followed to ensure that the
vaccine is being applied properly and monitored effectively. However, a vaccination
campaign which is not managed appropriately is likely to result in the virus becoming
endemic. Improperly vaccinated poultry flocks may perpetuate undetected virus circulation
through partially protected birds and remain a source of infection for other birds. The cost and
logistic challenges of widespread vaccination, especially in backyard poultry, are major
constraints on effective use of vaccines.

Total value of primary poultry production in Haiti is estimated at HTG 2,351 million
(Table 4). The total costs of a national vaccination campaign (HTG 47.5 million) represent
less than 2% of this amount. If it is assumed that an outbreak of HPAI, left uncontrolled,
could potentially result in a production loss of up to 80% of the national flock, vaccination as
a preventive measure might be an economically valid proposal if the probability of such HPAI
outbreak is estimated to be at least once every 40 years. In comparison, the Newcastle disease
is estimated to kill some 20-30% of domestic poultry in Haiti every year.

However, implementation of an effective vaccination campaign for backyard poultry at the
national level would be very difficult. In case of an outbreak, stamping out would be a valid
alternative to vaccination (break-even) if it can be limited to a maximum of about 55,000 head
nationwide (i.e. 1% of the total national poultry flock at risk). In other words, stamping out is
economically justified in comparison with vaccination if the destruction of one bird enables to



                                               29
avoid the contamination of maximum 100 birds. The total cost of stamping out per bird (HTG
891) is over twice higher than the average value of production per bird (HTG 428).

Cost-benefit analysis of control measures for LPAI

In contrast with HPAI H5N1, LPAI such as the H5N2 subtype detected in RD and Haiti does
not cause significant mortality in poultry. In most cases, clinical symptoms of are not
perceptible, therefore diagnosis can be confirmed only by laboratory analysis. The main
problem with LPAI is the potential risk of mutation of the virus into HPAI. However, unlike
HPAI H5N1, HPAI H5N2 has not resulted so far in any human casualties elsewhere in the
world.

The factors that bring about mutation from LPAI to HPAI are not known. The probability is
generally thought to be low, especially in traditional backyard poultry production systems
which seem to be less conducive to virus mutation than intensive commercial production
systems.

Decisions on appropriate control measures for LPAI H5N2 would require an improved
knowledge of the present status of this disease in Haiti. In case the disease would already be
endemic in Haiti, stamping out measures are ineffective to eradicate the disease, unless they
would be carried out on a large scale with costs largely exceeding the very uncertain benefit
of ‘avoiding a virus mutation’. In case the disease would be circumscribed to certain areas or
production systems, a combination of stamping out and/or targeted vaccination might be
envisaged.

Improving epidemiologic knowledge of LPAI H5N2 in Haiti has itself a cost which should be
taken into account before deciding how to proceed, especially in comparison with the
possibility to allocate corresponding funds to other animal diseases that are of more concrete
and immediate concern to farm producers in Haiti.

This exercise is based on the assumption of taking actions at a binational level, breaking
therefore the prisoner’s dilemma and moving towards a higher equilibrium where both parties
benefit from a single approach to avian flu prevention and control.




                                             30
TABLE 1
SEROLOGICAL RESULTS FOR DETECTION OF AVIAN INFLUENZA

                  Programme de Vigilance épidémiologique de la Grippe Aviaire
                            Résultats des analyses de laboratoire


Période Septembre 2006 - 2 Octobre 2007

                            1er test/ ELISA            2ème test H5N1       3ème test AGD
Département               Qté        Pos       Nég        Pos       Nég       Pos       Nég
Nord Est                  168           2      166          0          2         0         2
Ouest                     236          10      226          0         10         0        10
Sud                       240          16      224          0         16         0        16
Grand Anse                403          68      335          0         68         0        68
Centre                    436          18      418          0         18         0        18
Artibonite                192          22      170          0         22         0        22
Nippes                     88           4       84          0          4         0         4
Nord Ouest                117           2      115          0          2         0         2
Nord                      482          11      471          0         11         0        11
Sud Est                   173           2      171          0          2         0         2
TOTAL                    2535         155     2380          0       155          0      155
                                    6,1%



Période Octobre 2007 - 7 Mars 2008

                                1er test                 2ème test            3ème test
Département               Qté        Pos       Nég       Pos          Nég     Pos       Nég
Nord Est                  100           8       92          2          98       0         0
Centre                    318         29       289          0         318       0         0
Nippes                     18           1       17          0          18       0         0
Nord                      149         10       139          3         146       0         0
Nord Ouest                 70           5       65          0          70       0         0
Sud                        21           2       19          0          21       0         0
Ouest                     676         55       621          5         671       0         0
Grand Anse                  0           0        0          0           0       0         0
Haut Artibonite           194           2      192          2         192       0         0
Sud Est (Thiotte)         254           0      254          0         254       0         0
TOTAL                    1800        112      1688         12        1788       0         0
                                    6,2%



Période Janvier 2008 - Février 2009

                       Echantillons            Elisa                  AGD
Département         Collectés Eliminés        Pos         Nég        Pos      Nég
Nord Est                  669        31         4         634          0        4
Ouest                    1123         9        65        1049          1       64
Nord Ouest                229        24         6         199          0        6
Nord                      447        10         2         435          0        2
Bas Artibonite            121         0         3         118          0        3
Sud Est                   637         0         1         636          0        1
Nippes                    226         0         3         223          0        3
Grand Anse                100         0         4          96          0        4
Haut Artibonite           194         0         2         192          0        2
Sud                       210         0         3         207          0        3
Centre                   1092        55        59         978          5       54
TOTAL                    5048       129       152        4767          6      146
                                   2,56%      3,1%


Source:
MARNDR, Direction Santé Animale (DSA) - Service Epidémiologie et Statistiques Vétérinaires




                                                             31
TABLE 2
EMERGENCY MEASURES IMPLEMENTED BY MARNDR TO CONTROL
LPAI H5N2 OUTBREAKS

                          Intervention d'Urgence contre l'Influenza aviaire
                                             MARNDR



Volailles abattues par jour dans les différents Départements


                                                  Poule
Département                          TOTAL     indigène      Dinde Pintade          Pigeon Canard
Nippes - 1 foyer                       213          179           13          0          6       15
    Mercredi 5 août                    190          156           13          0          6       15
    Jeudi 6 août                        23            23           0          0          0        0
Centre - 1 foyer                                  Intervention retardée - en cours prochainement
Nord - 2 foyers                          519        426           13          0          5       75
    Mercredi 5 août                      519        426           13          0          5       75
Nord-Est - 2 foyers                      172           0           0          0          0        0
    Mercredi 5 août                      172           0           0          0          0        0
    GRAND TOTAL                          904        605           26          0         11       90
    ( 5 foyers traités)




Coût des opérations par Département

                                         40                                   1
                                    Montant                              Equiv.
Département                            HTG per animal                      USD per animal
Nippes - 1 foyer                     67 325       316                     1 683       7,9
    Compensation des éleveurs        30 750       144                       769       3,6
    Primes et divers                 36 575       172                       914       4,3
Centre - 1 foyer
Nord - 2 foyers                      256 365         494                  6 409        12,3
    Compensation des éleveurs        182 475         352                  4 562         8,8
    Primes et divers                  73 890         142                  1 847         3,6
Nord-Est - 2 foyers                  129 780         755                  3 245        18,9
    Compensation des éleveurs         60 525         352                  1 513         8,8
    Primes et divers                  69 255         403                  1 731        10,1
    GRAND TOTAL                      453 470         502                 11 337        12,5
    Compensation des éleveurs        273 750         303                  6 844         7,6
    Primes et divers                 179 720         199                  4 493         5,0
    ( 5 foyers traités)

    Inclut seulement le coût immédiat des opérations -
    n'inclut pas le coût des agents de suivi (1 agent par foyer, 2500 HTG/mois par agent, 9 mois)




Source:
MARNDR, Filière de Protection Sanitaire/ Direction Santé Animale (DSA), Service de Prophylaxie - Rapport des
Activités d'Opérations de Compensation et d'Elimination de volailles Infectées avec le virus d'Influenza aviaire
faiblement pathogène




                                                           32
TABLE 3
COSTS OF PREVENTION AND CONTROL MEASURES FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA

                          Mesures de prévention et de lutte contre l'influenza aviaire
                                           Estimations de coûts



A. Epidemiological surveillance

       average annual cost            USD    500 000
                                      HTG 20 000 000


B. Stamping out of infected and susceptible birds

       direct cost per bird           HTG           502 equivalent to     USD      12,5 (details in Annex 2)
       monitoring costs *             HTG           124
       sentinellisation costs **      HTG           268
       total cost per bird            HTG           894 equivalent to     USD      22,3


    * based on 1 monitoring agents per outbreak site at a cost of HTG            2 500 per month
                                                            for a duration of          9 months
                              i.e. a cost of HTG              22 500 per outbreak site
                              for an average of                  181 birds stamped-out per outbreak site

   * * based on following parameters:
                                         2   cages per outbreak site
                                     7 000   HTG per cage
                                        24   sentinel birds per cage
                                       350   HTG per sentinel bird
                                         8   feed bags per cage
                                     1 100   HTG per feed bag
                            total   48 400   HTG per outbreak site


C. Vaccination campaign

       number of units (poultry) to be vaccinated           5 500 000
       cost of one dose of vaccine                   5   HTG
       number of vaccination teams               6 000
       daily cost of a vaccination team *          500   HTG
       number of days **                          4,58
       subtotal                       HTG 41 250 000      equivalent to   USD 1 031 250
       ice                            HTG      300 000
       syringes **                    HTG 8 250 000
       fuel for cars                  HTG      400 000
       grand total                    HTG 50 200 000      equivalent to   USD 1 255 000


     * indemnities for the two members of a vaccination team
   * * based on estimate of         200 units (heads of poultry) vaccinated per day per team
                                   1,50 HTG per syringe




Source:
MARNDR, Direction Santé Animale (DSA) - Service Epidémiologie et Statistiques Vétérinaires




                                                             33
TABLE 4
COST-BENEFIT         ANALYSIS        OF        AI   PREVENTION          AND   CONTROL
MEASURES



Control measures for an HPAI outbreak


                        Annual         Farmers            annual
                     production           price            value
                      (no. units)        (HTG)      (HTG million)

    chicken           8 900 000             250           2 225,0
    eggs             21 000 000               6             126,0

    total                                                 2 351,0
    average per head in national flock (HTG)                427,5

costs of national vaccination campaign                       50,2
     % of annual production value                          2,14%

stamping out       no. birds      % total flock total costs (HTG million)
                            1 000         0,02%                0,9
                            5 000         0,09%                4,5
                           10 000         0,18%                8,9
                           20 000         0,36%               17,9
                           55 000         1,00%               49,2
                         100 000          1,82%               89,4
                       5 500 000       100,00%             4 915,7

    cost per head (HTG)                                      894
    percentage of average production per head              209%




                                               35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Solange A. Alliali         Senior Counsel                    LEGAM
Jean-Claude Balcet         Consultant                        LCSTR
Mario E. Bravo             Sr Communications Officer         EXTOC
Peter Cohen                Consultant                        AFTFW
Indira Janaki Ekanayake    Sr Agriculturist                  AFTA3
Beatriz Elena Franco       Program Assistant                 LCC1A
Ross Alexander Gartley     Consultant                        LCSUW
Joana Godinho              Sector Manager                    LCSHH
Marie Khoury               Consultant                        CTRLA
Harideep Singh             Senior Rural Development Speci    EASER
Fily Sissoko               Lead Financial Management Spec    AFTMW
Yao Wottor                 Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Supervision/ICR
Christelle Bernardin        Temporary                        LCCHT
Ross Alexander Gartley      Consultant                       LCSUW
Joana Godinho               Sector Manager                   LCSHH
Natalia Gomez               Senior Rural Development Speci   LCSAR
Fernando Montenegro Torres Sr Economist (Health)             LCSHH
Glenn S. Morgan             Regional Safeguards Adviser      LCSDE
Joseph Kizito Mubiru        Sr Financial Management Specia   LCSFM
Rachel Hannah Nadelman      Consultant                       LCSAR
Alois Ndorere               E T Consultant                   LCSPT
Erika Eliana Salamanca
                            Program Assistant                 LCSAR
Duenas
Maryanne Sharp              Country Operations Adviser       LCSOS
Fily Sissoko                Lead Financial Management Spec   AFTMW
Nko Etesin Umoren           Resource Management Analyst      AFTRM
Christina Ariani Wartenberg Junior Professional Associate    LCSAR
Yao Wottor                  Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                              4.76                   13.23

                          Total:                                         13.23


                                           36
Supervision/ICR
FY 10, 11, 12, 13                 50.53   253.78
                    Total:                253.78




                             37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


At the end of the 1990s, the world faced a serious threat from Avian Influenza. The
H5N1 virus subtype was causing the death of several hundred million domestic poultry in
Asia, then in Africa. From 2003, human mortality cases were observed, which created the
fear that a pandemic could surge at any moment if the virus was transmissible between
humans. The spectrum of the 1918 avian influenza pandemic reappeared and the different
scenarios presented by international and competent institutions contributed to enhance the
concern based on the estimation of loss of human life. In the meanwhile, the Republic of
Haiti was struggling with the with precarious veterinary and sanitary infrastructures. But
like other countries it took dispositions to protect the territory and prepare itself for an
eventual contamination by highly pathogenic avian influenza. In this context working
groups on influenza were established in the Ministries of Agriculture and Public Health
with the collaboration of international and regional institutions, especially WHO and
PAHO, and with the participation of concerned public institutions and NGOs.

Training sessions and diagnostic activities had started for three sub-types, including
H5N1. Field investigations initiated in 2006 did not reveal the presence of any high
pathogenic or low pathogenic sub-type in Haiti until 2008. Veterinary services of the
Dominican Republic discovered the H5N2 low pathogenic subtype by chance, during the
carrying out of routine tests on mothers of fight cocks that were going to be exported to
Colombia. In Haiti, this sub-type was identified by MARNDR´s veterinary laboratory,
from tests carried out by the DPSA on chicken living next to the Haitian-Dominican
border or to public markets in the North department. The Ames laboratory in Iowa,
United States, which is the laboratory of reference for avian influenza, confirmed the
diagnostic.

Despite some investment efforts in avian influenza prevention in Haiti, several structural
weaknesses existed in veterinary matters. The institutional capacity and know-how
revealed to be inadequate to face a H5N1 epizootic associated with human cases. Given
the cosmopolitan character of the disease and its implications for trade, it became
necessary to look at the avian influenza character with a regional or at least bi-national
perspective. The World Bank and the Government of Haiti agreed to start in October
2009 an Avian Influenza Prevention and Control Project (PRECONIA), in which key
participating actors would be MARNDR and MSPP, in terms of interventions in the field.
A similar project was agreed with the Dominican Republic to allow the two countries of
the Hispaniola Island to harmonize their actions in the fight against avian influenza and to
better prepare themselves to face a pandemic threat.

The project was conceived to receive two grants with respective amounts of US$1
million and US$1.5 million. Due to administrative delays imputable to the World Bank,
the first grant was cancelled before the project started.

The project had four components, which were : Animal Health, Public Health,
Communication, and Management. The objectives of component 1 were to have, at any
moment, updated data on the avian influenza situation in the country, to equip the country


                                            40
with an organizational structure able to provide early alerts in case of suspicion of high
pathogenic avian influenza cases and to apply sanitary measures, to reinforce animal
quarantine structures across the country, to have an operational and efficient notification
system for morbidity cases, to eliminate the presence of any clinical case and the
circulation of high pathogenic avian influenza sub-types or of sub-types subject to
compulsory declaration to WHO. The objectives of component 2 were to strengthen
diagnostic and surveillance capacity in the human health sector, to establish an
organizational system able to rapidly apply urgent sanitary and medial measures in the
case of human diseases, as well as response mechanisms ; to train human health
professionals on avian influenza and acute respiratory diseases, to carry out systematic
avian influenza detection studies in sentinel sites on any person having a respiratory
disease. The objectives of component 3 were to develop the national capacity before ad
during urgent situations on avian influenza to inform the public, to increase public
awareness on differences between seasonal flu, avian flu, and a pandemic flu, to prepare
the public on ways to prevent and reduce the incidence of pandemic flu, to strengthen
capacity at the national level on epidemiological vigilance and alert triggering, to
increase active epidemiological surveillance of acute respiratory infections, to carry out
monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the national plan on anti-pandemic
preparation, and to develop the collaboration with the Dominican Republic. Component
four was to ensure project administration and implementation through the Project
Coordination Unit.

DPSA, under MARNDR, was chosen to carry out animal health activities and to ensure
project coordination. MSPP was responsible for implementing prevention and
surveillance activities in coordination with MARNDR. IICA was chosen through an
agreement with the World Bank, approved by MARNDR, for procurement and fiduciary
management of the project.

The main project beneficiaries were the « Gwoupman Sante Bèt » (GSB), professionals of
DPSA, NGOs and partner institution involved in poultry farming and health, the
Direction of quarantine, under MARNDR, and public health service providers.

The main difficulties and obstacles encountered by the project were the lack of
experience of institutions with the implementation and management of projects financed
by the World Bank; the absence of a procurement specialist in the staff of DPSA,
MSAPP, and IICA; the delays to prepare the bidding documents, the weakness of
logistics (only one vehicle for MARNDR and MSPP), the fact that the veterinary
laboratory was dysfunctional in 2012, the disbursement by tranches adopted by IICA and
the need to justify all expenses requests before any new disbursement.

Several lessons can be extracted from the project´s implementation.

     -    The management of projects varies considerably between sources of financing
     -    The knowledge of the administrative and fiduciary management procedures of
         the financing institution are an important determinant of project success
     -      The institutional arrangements play an important role in the fluidity and
         frequency of actions that the Project must undertake in the field


                                            41
-     PRECONIA´s institutional arrangements revealed to be cumbersome and
    unpractical
-     The communication between the different participants in the project is
    fundamental for the smooth implementation of activities.
-    Considerable delays were an important source of frustration for technicians
    responsible for management of this project, especially for those who think they
    provided their best efforts
-    The success of projects financed by the World Bank and the Inter-American
    Development Bank and implemented by MARNDR cannot be guaranteed with
    the remuneration policy of these agencies, which offers different salaries for
    technicians of equal competency
-    Minimum procurement knowledge is required for each person participating in
    project management to increase chances of project success
-    Project coordination has gained a better knowledge of procurement and Bank
    procedures.




                                      42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

     -   Borrower Completion Report (BCR), October 2012
     -   Project ISRs, Aide Memoires, and Management Letters
     -   Animal Health Programmatic Investment Plan 2012-2017, MARNDR 2012.
     -   Project Progress Reports




                                     44
