Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RepoTt No. 8395-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEt ENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
May 30, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This docment bas a resricted distribtion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
thder oflcial dute. Is contents may not otherwise be disclsetd without World Bank, authozation.



.
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
US$1 - P 22.80
P 1 = US$0.04
(As of May 1990)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
June - March
ACRONYMS
ADB      - Asian Development Bank
BEE      - Bureau of Elementary Education
BNFE     - Bureau of Nonformal Education
CEDP     - Community Employment Development Program
CEM      - Center for Educational Measurement
CIDA     - Canadian International Development Agency
COA      - ConuLission on Audit
DBM      - Department of Budget and Management
DECS     - Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DPWH     - Department of Public Works and Highways
EDPITAF  - Educational Development Projects Implementing
Task Force
INS      - Financial and Management Service
GOP      - Government of the Philippines
IMC      - Instructional Materials Corporation
LACs     - Learning Action Cells
MIS      - Management Information System
NCR      - National Capital Region
NEDA     - National Economic Development Authority
NETRC    - National Educational Testing and Research Center
NGOs     - Nongovernmental Organizations
OECD     - Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
OPS      - Office of the Planning Service
PBET     - Professional Board Examination for Teachers
PICU     - Project Implementation Coordinating Unit
PRODED   - Program for Decentralized Educational Development
RDCs     - Regional Development Councils
SBP      - School Building Program
UNESCO   - United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I*   BACKGROUND  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
II.  ELEMENTARY EDUCATION    ... .....    . .   .                         2
A. Organization and Financing ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    ... .    2
B. Main Issues  . . *.... . . .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...    3
Availability of Physical Inputs   . .      .  .  . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Teacher and Administrator Performance       . . . . . .      .   .    5
Social Selectivity in Elementary School Completion     . . .      7
Scope of the National Literacy Program .   . . . . . ..  . .    7
Institutional Capacities in Planning and Management .  .  . . .   8
Student Performance Assessment       . . . . . . . .   .  .   8
MmnagemsntlInformation System . ....   .                   .    .    9
Information Flow and Retrieval       . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
C. Strategy for Sector Development  . . . . . . . . . . .  . .    10
Goverrment Priorities and Programs . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
Bank Experience ant Strategy    ................. .  11
III.  THE PROJECT   . .      ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
A. Origin . .   . . . . . . . . . ... .              . . . . ...   12
B. Rationale, Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       12
C. Description  . . . .  .       . . . .. . . . .                   14
Increasing the Provision of Educational Infrastructure and
Materiale . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                . .     14
School Building Program.       .                              14
Desks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .   .   .   .   .  15
Instructional Materials .....15
Equipment . . . . . . . . . .           . . . . . . . . . .   15
Improving Teacher and Administrator Performance  . . . . . . .   16
In-service Training        . . .    ......          .16
Review of Pre-service Training and Certification  . . . . .  16
Expanding Basic Education  ....  ..         .      .16
Introduction of Dropout Prevention Measures . . . . . . . .   17
Evaluation of Educational Outcomes  . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Expansion of Literacy Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Philippines
in October 1989 comprising Messrs./Mmes. Shigeko M. Asher (mission leader),
Vasilios Demetriou, Maria Dalupan, Brigitte Duces, Jee-Peng Tan, and consultants
Archie Lapointe, Susan Melnick and Alain Mingat.
This document ha a strictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offiil dutieL Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
Strengthening Planning and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Elementary Student Assessment .     . . . . . . . . . .  .  2 .   8
Management Information System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Planning and Budgeting Methods  . . . . .. ... .. .   .  1.9
Distribution System for Organizational Informztion  . . . .  19
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
A. Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   20
B.  Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .     .  22
V. MANAGEIENTANDIMPLEMENTATION .. *... ............ .  23
A. Organization . . . . . . . . . . . *...   .     . ..  . ..   23
B. Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . .. . . . ..   . . . .    24
C. Status of Preparation  .. ....  ..............   .  24
D. Procurement  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . *  .*. . . . . . .    24
E.  Disbursements  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
F. Accounts and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Bank Supervision  . . . . . . . . .  28
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .   . .    29
VII. AGREEMENTS RUCHEDANDH ANCOD RCTIOV.T    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
TEXT TABLES
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . .  20
Table 4.2s  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  21
Table 4.3:  Financial Plan . . . . . . . .    . . . . . .  . . . .    22
Table 5.1: List of Implementing Agencies by Project Activity    23
Table 5.2:  Project Expenditures by Procurement Method . . . .  25
Table 5.3: Disbursement Categories  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Basic Features of the Education Sector . . . . . . .  31
Annex 2: Classrooms and Desk Requirements for Year 1990 . . .  35
Annex 3: Projection Methods for Classrooms, Desks and Books .  36
Annex 4s Project Processing and Implementation Schedule . . .  40
Annex 5: Action Plan  .*.9.9.9.. 99........  .*99 9 * .... ......   41
Annex 6s The School Building Program  . . . . . . . . . ...    56
Annex 7: Project Cost Tables  . . . . . . . ...  .   . .. . . ..  62
Annex 8: Procurement Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies  65
Annex 9: Project Implementation Coordinating Unit
Responsibilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * .  66
Annex 10: Disbursement Schedule and Profile  . . . . . . . . .  67
Annex 11: Selected Documents Available in the Project File . .  68
MAP
IBRD No. 22098



PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Country Data !
Population                             58.3 million
Annual Growth (1975-87)               2.5Z
Literacy Rate (1980)
Maie                                   842
Female                                 83X
GNP per capita                       US$590
Population below poverty line            372
Sector Data W
-Enrollments-------------
Schools  Teachers  Students   Private   Participation
('000)   ('000)    ('000)      sector       Rates (2)
share (2)   Gross      Net
Elementary       33      280       9,800        4       106      84
Secondary         5       99       3,000       40        65      55
Higher            1       57       1,500       85        35     n.a.
Nonformal         -      n.a.        400 21   n.a.        -        -
Public Expenditure on Formal Education
as X of GNP                               2.8
as 2 of total public expenditure         22.0
Intra-sectoral Distribution (in Z)
Elementary                                 61
Secondary                                  23
Higher                                     17
Nonformal                                  <1
91 Data are for 1987 from Social Indicators of Development 1988
(World Bank), except for 1980 literacy rates from the National
Census and Statistics Office (Philippines).
W Financial data are for 1988 and other data for 1986 from
The Philippines--Education Sector Study (World Bank, 1988), except
for 1985 participation rates from UNESCO Statistical Yearbook 1988.
9 Includes only courses sponsored by the Department of Education,
Culture and Sports.



PRILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:    Republic of the Philippines
Amount:       US$200 million equivalent
Terms:       Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect
Description: The Philippines launched a ten-year Program for Comprehensive
Elementary Education Development in 1981, which was implemented
with World Bank assistance through a first elementary education
project completed in 1988. The proposed project would
constitute a second phase of further improving equity,
efficiency and quality in elementary education through support
to the 1990-92 subsector investment program and action plan of
the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS). The
project would finance civil works, furniture, equipment,
instructional materials, expert services and training with the
objective of providing essential physical resources equitably,
improving the effectiveness of teachers and administrators,
increasing basic learning of targeted groups, and strengthening
institutional capacities for planning and management.
Specifically, the project would: (a) provide and improve the
distribution of classrooms, desks, textbooks and equipment;
(b) institutionalize in-service teacher and administrator
training and carry out studies of pre-service teacher training
to provide the analytical basis for policy planning and
investment; (c) introduce measures to prevent elementary school
dropout on a pilot basis, study factors affecting student
attendance, achievement and retention, and expand the DECS
literacy training program; and (d) introduce annual assessment
of elementary student performance, develop an integrated
management information system for the sector, improve the
maintenance and dissemination of DECS operational information,
and strengthen DECS data and methods for planning and budgeting.
Benefits
and Risks:   The project would improve the quality of the national elementary
education program and enhance learning at the primary level.
It would also promote equity and support the Government's
poverty alleviation efforts bys (a) using budgetary allocation
criteria which target the distribution of educational resources
to disadvantaged areas; (b) laying the groundwork for reducing
dropout from elementary schooling among children of poor
families; and (c) expanding literacy training to the out-of-
school youth and adults who lack functional literacy. In
addition, the development of student assessment capacities at



- ii -
the elementary level would provide a basis for improved sector-
wide monitoring and evaluation, ad improvements in the DECS
information system would result in more efficient and effective
sector planning and management.
The main risk is delayed project implementation due to
inadequate budgetary allocations to the subsector and changes
in the project management organizatio2al structure and staffing.
To minimize this risk, the Bank has confirmed that sufficient
funds have been appropriated to meet the 1990 project costs;
joint annual reviews of project performance and budget
allocation requirements would be held; and organizational and
staffing arrangements as agreed with the Bank would be
maintained throughout the project period.
Estimated Costs:                                  Local  Foreign  Total
-----US$ million-----
Infrastructure and materials        250.6   88.7   339.3
School buildings                 203.7   50.9   254.6
Desks                             26.8    4.7    31.6
Textbooks                         19.8   30.2    49.9
Equipment                          0.3    2.9      3.2
Teacher/administrator performance    4.3    0.8       5.0
In-service staff training          4.1    0.7      4.8
Teacher training reviews           0.2    0.0      0.2
Basic education                       4.2    0.7      4.9
Dropout interventions              0.2    0.0      0.3
Educational outcomes evaluation   0.2    0.0       0.3
Literacy training                  3.7    0.7      4.4
Planning and management               2.0    1.0      3.0
Student assessment                 0.8    0.5      1.3
Information system                 0.5    0.4      0.9
Management studies                 0.1    0.0      0.2
Information distribution system   0.6    0.1       0.7
Project management                    0.1    0.0      0.2
Total Baseline Costs                261.2   91.3   352.5
Physical contingencies              8.1    2.8    11.0
Price contingencies                38.4    8.1    46.5
Total Proiect Cost #                307.7  102.3   410.0
I Includes an estimated US$44.8 million equivalent in
identifiable duties and taxes.



- ±u. -
Financint Plan,
Local    Foreian    Total
------US  million -------
Oovegnment                 200.0      10.0      210.0
Isak                       107.7      92.3      200.0
Total                      307.7     102.3      410.0
Estimated Disbursement,
Bank FY
1991      1992       1993     1994
-----------. US$ million -----------
Annual               74.8      75.2       42.0       8.0
Cumulative           74.8     150.0      192.0     200.0
Rate of Returns Not Applicable



PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1      Compared to most developing countries, the educational system of
the Philippines developed relatively early and serves a large proportion of
its population with extensive private sector participation. By 1965 gross
enrollment rates at the elementary level had reached 1002 and current rates
at the secondary and higher levels are 65Z and 352, respectively. Reflecting
a unique public-private division of responsibility in education, government
schools account for 952 of elementary enrollments and the private sector
enrolls 402 of secondary and over 8OZ of higher education students. Theze
is also exceptionally high representation of women throughout the system,
with female enrollments exceeding those of males in secondary and higher
education.
1.2      The system's high enrollment rates and the widespread participation
of women and the private sector are notable achievements. However, the
quality of education has been seriously compromised by rapid expansion and
underfinancing. The education sector received as much as one-third of the
national budget in the 1960s, but subsequent government expenditures for
education dropped steadily, falling from 2.82 of GNP in 1970 to 1.52 in 1983.
Besides a shift in priorities away from education during this period, he
country's slow economic growth and a rapidly increasing population
contributed to the decline. While the population grew at an average annual
rate of about 2.52 between 1965 and 1985, real annual GNP growth averaged
2.32. Education programs suffered particularly in the early to mid-1980s
vhen the Government's adjustment program called for constrained demand.
The resulting cuts in capital investments as well as in recurrent
expenditures for compensation, supervision and other non-salary items
further weakened the quality of instruction.
1.3      Since 1986, the Government has introduced a series of measures to
revitalize the educational system. Education is once again receiving a large
share of the national budget--222 in 1988 which was equivalent to 2.82 of
GNP. Salaries for public school teachers, which had declined sharply in real
terms in previous years. have been increased by over 5OZ, bringing average
salaries relative to per capita GNP more in line with those for Asia, Latin
America and the OECD countries. Additional salary increases are forthcoming
as part of a Government-wide standardization scheme to be implemented over
the next few years. A constitutional provision for free secondary education
has been implemented through the nationalization of formerly local public
schools and the elimination of fees in public schools. At the same time, the
Government has undertaken to protect the private sector. It has expanded the
service contracting program in which private schools enroll students who
cannot be accommodated by the public sector, increased funding for
scholarships directed to students attending private universities and
colleges, and approved subsidies for students in private secondary schools.
All these developments pose new challenges. Although the Government clearly
attaches a high priority to education, future budgetary increases are likely
to be more restrained in view of constraints on the overall budget and



-2-
competing claims of other sectors. The reality of such resource constraints
makes it more important to decide on priorities for sector development and
strategies for more efficient delivery of education services.
1.4      In 1988, the Bank conducted a sector review to identify ways
to improve quality, equity and efficiency in the educational system without
unduly increasing the fiscal burden on the Government. Rate of return
analysis in the resulting Sector Reportil found investment in education to
be as profitable as investment in physical capital, and public investment
in education to be efficiently allocated among the three levels of education.
At the same time, however, the system is characterized by serious internal
inefficiencies reflected in low survival rates and levels of student
achievement, particularly among students from low-income households. The
Sector Report determined that such adverse social selectivity originates in
elementary education and, therefore, efforts to reduce social inequities in
the system as a whole would need to focus on improving survival at the
elementary level. Similarly, as the products of elementary schools determine
the quality of entrants into subsequent educational levels and into the work
force, sector-wide development rests strongly on the improved provision of
basic education services.
1.5      Elementary education has been the focus of a ten-year development
program (1981-90) of the Government which aimed to raise quality, improve
efficiency and reduce disparities in educational provision. This program
was impl.miented with Bank assistance through a sector project in elementary
educat4on (Loan 2030-PH) which closed in 1988. Known as the Program for
Decentralized Educational Development (PRODED), the project introduced
revised policies for financing and management, developed a new curriculum
with improved instructional materials, and created a structure for the
in-service training of teachers and school administrators. The Sector Report
recognized the accomplishments of PRODED and, in so doing, identified both
the areas on which further development could be anchored as well as
continuing weaknesses that need to be addressed.
II. ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
A. Organization and Financing
2.1      The Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) is
responsible for the administratior. and supervision of the overall educational
system, the basic features of which are described in Annex 1. Line authority
extends from DECS central office through 14 DECS regional offices to 127
provincial and city school divisions, down to 2,046 district offices which
oversee an average of 15 public elementary schools each. The elementary
education subsector presently serves an estimated 10 million students and
employs 300,000 teachers (over 80X of whom are female) in more than 30,000
schools.
V The Philippines: Education Sector Study (in two parts), World Bank Report
No. 7473-PH, December 1988.



2.2      A major accomplishment of PRODED was the expansion of institutional
capacities of the DECS operating units involved in elementary education.
Routine responsibilities for planning, management and program implementation
for the subsector lie with the regional offices in line with decentralization
efforts to improve responsiveness to local needs. Regional planning units,
created under PRODED, prepare medium-term plans, annual programs and related
budget requests for the regions. Regular activities of these units include
the collection, compilation and analysis of educational data and the
provision of advisory services to subregional authorities. The coordination
of regional plans and the preparation of national plans and budgets for
education are the responsibilities of the Office of the Planning Service
(OPS) and the Financial and Management Service (FMS) in the DECS central
office. OPS maintains the DECS management information system based on
regional statistics, and provides assistance to the regions in sector
planning. Assistance to the regions is also provided in the implementation
of sector policies and procedures by the Bureau of Elementary Education
(BEE), which is responsible for formulating guidelines and standards for
the curriculum, instructional materials, physical facilities and staff
development. Elementary Education Divisions in the regional offices monitor
the implementation of sector policies and programs in accordance with BEE
criteria and standards, and provide related assistance to provincial and
district authorities. School supervision is carried out by district
supervisors with the assistance of division-level subject supervisors.
2.3      The financing of elementary education is borne mainly by the Central
Government which directs most of its public resources towards this level of
schooling, reflecting a pattern of subsidization that accords well with
considerations of externalities and contributes to a high degree of
structural equity in the system. In 1988, 602 of the national education
budget was allocated to elementary education, compared to 232 and 172 for
secondary and higher education, respectively. Nonetheless, recurrent
expenditures per elementary education student have suffered due to budget
constraints and the rapid expansion of the system. Between 1970 and 1980,
when enrollments at the three levels increased by 202, 74Z and 90o,
respectively, at the same time that the share of education in the total
budget was declining, unit costs at the elementary level decreased by
one-third in real terms. PRODED investments helped maintain unit spending
at about 62 of per capita GNP in the early 1980s, and raised the share of
spending for non-salary items. Due mainly to increases in teachers' salaries
since 1986, recurrent costs per student are estimated to have further grown
to 8-9Z of per capita GNP, comparable to the 102 average for Asia. In view
of the Government's increased fiscal obligations in secondary education
(para. 1.3), however, general appropriations for elementary education have
been growing more slowly--an average of 22S annually during 1984-88 compared
with 43Z for secondary education.
B. Main Issues
2.4      The analytical work in the Sector Report and the implementation
experience of PRODED (paras. 1.4, 1.5) revealed the following outstanding
issues in the elementary education subsector: (a) the physical inputs
necessary for teaching and learning remain inadequate; (b) schooling
effectiveness is limited by weaknesses in teachers' subject mastery and
pedagogical skills and by the lack of strong professional support from school



- 4 -
administrators and supervisors; (c) serious inefficiencies and inequities
exist in the system due to the high dropout rate at the elementary level;
(d) related to the dropout issue, some six million out-of-school youth and
adults lack lunctional literacy skills with an additional half million
joining their ranks each year; and (e) subsector as well as sector planning
and management are hampered by inadequacies in the DECS systems of
information, and monitoring and evaluation.
Availability of Physical Inputs
2.5      The provision of adequate physical resources, in both quantitative
and qualitative terms, remains a major task for the Government, to ensure
quality education as well as to provide increased learning opportunities.
Under PRODED, targets were set to reduce backlogs, meet enrollment increases
and replace unsuitable infrastructure and materials. While considerable
progress has been made in the supply of physical inputs, shortages and
problems of uneven distribution persist, particularly of classrooms and desks
(Annex 2).
2.6      Under PRODED, an average of about 7,300 classrooms were built
annually from 1982 to 1988, but their overall stock is still short of need by
about 82. Some regions suffer from more serious shortfalls, as high as 252
in the National Capital Region (NCR) and Region XII. Nonetheless, the
backlog of new classroom requirements was reduced from 12U of total stock in
1978 and DECS is increasingly programming more resources for the
rehabilitation and replacement of temporary or damaged classrooms, the
construction of multi-purpose workshops for science, practical arts and
related subjects in the intermediate grades, and since 1986, in response to
health and sanitation concerns, the construction of toilet facilities. At
the same time, to prevent damage to school buildings from natural calamities
such as typhoons and floods, DECS is continuing its cooperative efforts with
the UNESCO Asia Regional Office in Bangkok to improve building design. DECS
has also increased funding for maintenance in recognition of the long-term
savings to be gained from regular upkeep of school infrastructure. Between
1984 and 1988, for example, the share of maintenance of facilities rose from
5? to 24Z of non-salary recurrent costs for elementary education.
2.7      The DECS elementary School Building Program (SBP) is implemented by
the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) in coordination with DECS,
the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and Regional Development
Councils (EDCs). Within the national budget ceiling set by DBM, DECS and
DPWH determine regional allocations on the basis of a formula which takes
into account physical need and poverty Incidence to allow more resources to
be directed to less advantaged areas (Atnnex 3'. Following similar criteria,
RDCs allocate the regional budget to provincial and city unitsY and select
the SBP recipient schools therein. In the past, implementation of the annual
school building program was delayed by slow budget approvals and releases
caused in part by complex fund transfer procedures from DECS to DPWH. In
1989, DEM began releasing SBP funds directly to the DPWH regional offices
which, combined with a Government decision to ,elease infrastructure funds
in the first quarter of the year, has greatly improved DPWH performance.
V These correspond roughly to DECS divisions or to DPWH districts.



- 5 -
As of August 1989, 932 of the year's program had already been completed,
compared to less than 302 at the same time in preceding years.
2.8      The shortage of school desks is more serious than that of
classrooms. Only 602 of desk needs has been met nationwide, and the
shortfalls in Regions XII, IX, VII and NCR are greater than 50X. PRODED
funded the provision of desks only to 1,100 of the most disadvantaged schools
(about 32 of the total number of public elementary schools). About 600,000
more desks were produced in 1986-87 under the Community Employment and
Development Program (CEDP), a local employment generation project. Since
CEDP, however, almost no elementary school desks have been procured because
the funds budgeted for their provision have been diverted to other activities
such as the implementation of free secondary education. Funding requirements
for desks are incorporated into the regional budget's maintenance and
operating expenditures under the general category of supplies and materials.
As such, the budget for desks is vulnerable to cuts when funding for non-
programmed items is sought.
2.9      A notable achievement in improving the availability of physical
resources has been the reduction of the national student-textbook ratio from
10:1 in 1975 to 2:1 in 1987, towards a Government target of a 1:1 ratio by
1992. Since the mid-1970s, over 100 million textbooks, teacher guides and
other instructional materials have been produced, and a distribution system
consisting of one national and 152 provincial warehouses has been organized.
Two Bank projects were involved not only in the production and distribution
aspects, but also in the establishment of institutional arrangements for
instructional materials development. PRODED set up the Instructional
Materials Corporation (IMC), replacing the former Textbook Agency which had
itself been developed under the Third Education Project (Loan 1224T-PH).
2.10     In 1987 and 1988, IMC produced 23 million and 21 million books,
respectively, compared to an annual output of about 9 million in the early
1980s. This vastly improved performance has been attributed primarily to the
reduction in contract approval time from 6-14 months prior to 1987 to an
average of 4 weeks following Government actions to streamline the contract
review and approval processes. However, while production capacity has
increased, there is a need to ensure that books reach the schools from the
provincial warehouses. Funding for elementary school books has been included
in the DECS regional operations budget since 1988, with the provision that
96? of these funds be released directly to IMC for book production and
distribution to the provincial warehouses. The remaining 42 is released to
the regions to finance local freight and handling expenses in transporting
the books from the provincial warehouses to schools. Responsibility for
delivery of books to the individual schools lies with the division
superintendents, but there is no clear provision for transferring the funds
for local distribution from the regions to the division offices.
Teacher and Administrator Performance
2.11     Despite a surplus of teachers with the required Bachelor of
Education degrees, studies have found levels of subject matter mastery and
pedagogical skill among elementary school teachers generally inadequate.
In-service training, the key to upgrading and maintaining teacher
competencies, had tended to be provided on an ad hoc basis rather than as



a regular program of professional teacher development. Under PRODED's staff
development component, short-term training packages were developed and
formally delivered to all elementary school teachers, school administrators.
district and subject area supervisors. Course materials prepared under a
previous technical assistance project (Loan S008-PH) were utilized in
addition to new BEE materials aimed at imparting subject matter knowledge and
school and classroom management and supervisory skills. The need to provide
training to school administrators and supervisors was recognized based on
extensive research showing the critical role the school principal plays in
creating an environment that promotes high standards of teaching and
learning, as well as the importance of strong, professional support services
for both teachers and school administrators. As a mechanism for continuous
staff development efforts, Learning Action Cells (LACs) were organized. The
LACs at the school level are teacher training sessions managed by principals
on a monthly basis with material and supervisory support from the district,
division and regional offices. The LACs system is also utilized at the
division and regional levels for school administrator and supervisor
training. Under PRODED, the LACs appeared to be an effective and viable
in-service training strategy. Since funding responsibility was transferred
from the project to the regional offices in 1989, however, efforts are needed
to ensure sustained support for the LACs system.
2.12     While in-service training is essential to upgrade skills in the
current teaching force, long-term improvements in the quality of teachers
requires strengthening of pre-service education. The continuing need to
retrain teachers in basic content and pedagogy suggests that these skills
are not effectively developed in their pre-service training. DECS has tried
to improve the qualifications of students entering teacher training degree
courses by raising the National College Entrance Examination cut-off score
for admission from the 25th percentile rank in 1974 to the 65th percentile
in 1988, and the recent increases in teacher salaries have resulted in a
tripling of applications to these programs. However, there is no regular
review mechanism for the assessment of teacher training programs and
currently only one-fifth of the more than 300 teacher training colleges are
accredited. Studies have also criticized the quality and relevance of the
pre-service curriculum but they have not provided the empirical basis for
substantive curricular reform.
2.13     Weaknesses in pre-service education are exacerbated by an
ineffective system of teacher certification through the Professional Board
Examination for Teachers (PBET). Pass rates on PBET are low (30Z between
1978 and 1985) and reportedly declining further. PBET presumes to assess
the professional competencies of teachers and satisfactory performance on
the examination entitles them to permanent tenure. Although PBET is
potentially a useful instrument for providing feedback to colleges on the
performance of their graduates and for increasing institutional
accountability, there has been no analysis on whether the examination is in
fact a valid measure of teaching competence and teacher quality. DECS has
not been able to respond systematically to these issues due in part to a
fragmented management structure for teacher training and the absence of a
system for routine data compilation and policy analysis.



Social Selectivity in Elementary School Completion
2.14     About one-third of public school students who enter grade one fail
to complete the six-year elementary school cycle. The high dropout rate is
directly related to low internal efficiency, increasing the cost per
graduate, and affects external efficiency as well. The Sector Report showed
marked gaps in the returns to complete and incomplete cycles of elementary
education: respectively, 18? and 7? for private, and 12? and 4? for social
rates of return. The dropout problem is also a serious equity issue, with
students from lower-income households disproportionately represented among
elementary school dropouts. Among students from families with an annual
household income exceeding P 30,000, 892 complete elementary education,
compared to 57? for students whose families' annual household income i.s less
than P 10,000. Using another indicator of socio-economic status, only 8? of
students with college-educated fathers leave school without completing the
cycle, while 81? of students whose fathers have no education drop out of
elementary school. Social selectivity in elementary school completion is
of major concern because inequities generated at this level are transmitted
to the higher levels of schooling and carried into society at large.
2.15     Both socio-economic and school-related factors influence the
decision to drop out. Poor children may leave school because of the
opportunity costs related to outside employment or work at home, of the
indirect costs to their families of school-related expenses, or of health
and nutrition problems. Although dropping out is often regarded solely as
a poverty problem, school factors in themselves and their interaction with
family background affect the closely related educational outcomes of student
attendance, achievement and retention. Global statistics show that most
dropouts are students who have failed in school, which suggests that
improving the educational success rate of students may be more important in
reducing dropout than is currently assumed. Analysis in the Sector Report
showed a positive effect of school quality on retention--children in better
quality schools had a higher probability of completion even when background
factors were held constant. Since children in low-income areas are more
likely to attend poor quality schools, it would be important to target
improvements to these disadvantaged schools. An effective intervention
program would require more information and in-depth analysis to determine
which characteristics of the school and schooling process cause students to
drop out, and an incremental approach to designing the interventions that
respond to these specific causes.
Scope of the National Literacy Program
2.16     Dropouts from basic education and individuals who never start formal
schooling create an out-of-school population predisposed to a future of
functional illiteracy, thereby affecting their employability and
productivity. Although 1980 UNESCO statistics showed the Philippines as one
of only five countries in the Asia-Pacific Region to have achieved literacy
rates of over 80? for both males and females, it is currently estimated that
almost six million people over 10 years of age do not have basic literacy
skills. This group is being swollen each year by the nearly 5? of elementary
school-aged children who do not go to school and by that fraction of every
elementary school cohort that drops out before attaining functional literacy.
Even assuming some improvement in cohort survival, enrollment projections



- 8 -
suggest that by the year 2000, about 7.5 million more dropouts will likely
be added to the existing number of functional illiterates. Clearly, the
long-term solution lies in ensuring universal access to and improving the
efficiency of elementary schooling. Nevertheless, a sizable task remains
if the Government is to meet the needs of those for whom formal schooling
is not presently an option.
2.17     The Bureau of Nonformal Education (BNFE) in DECS is the agency
mandated to plan and implement the Government's literacy campaign, which
has the stated goal of eradicating illiteracy by the year 2000. With the
Nonformal Education Divisions in each regional office, BNFE organizes basic
literacy classes and integrates functional literacy training into livelihood
skills development courses for out-of-school youth and adults. In 1986, BNFE
also adopted a special literacy project, 'Magbassa Kitaw ('Let Us Read'),
using the phonosyllabic method of first-level literacy training which was
found to reduce the amount of time needed to develop basic literacy skills.
'Magbassa Kital was pioneered by a Muslim women's association to provide
literacy training and subsequently productive activities for illiterate
women in the southern Philippines. Women continue to account for over 60?
of the participants in these and other nonformal courses. In 1988, some
7,300 literacy classes were organized throughout the country with total
enrollments of about 160,000. This level of effort, already increased from
previous years, is too small to achieve universal literacy by the year 2000.
Implementation and expansion efforts for both 'Magbassa Rita' and the regular
literacy classes have been constrained largely by lack of funding. The 1989
DECS budget included a new line item for regional operations in nonformal
education (covering both literacy and livelihood skills training), and
allocation guidelines were drafted to take into account regional variations
in literacy rates.
Institutional Capacities in Planning and Management
2.18     Further development of the planning and management capabilities of
the DECS agencies involved in elementary education is hampered by the absence
of clear administrative arrangements for sector monitoring and evaluation
based on regular assessments of student performance, and by continuing
weaknesses and inefficiencies in the DECS management information system.
2.19     Student Performance Assessment.  DECS does not presently have a
system to generate nationally representative data on student achievement
routinely and in a timely manner. This capacity for sustainable system-wide
monitoring and evaluation is essential for determining the quality and
effectiveness of schools and providing such information to those in a
position to improve educational practice. Since the 1970s, several national
surveys of elementary student achievement have been conducted within the
context of specific projects, but the lack of comparable sampling designs and
assessment instruments has not allowed monitoring of the performance of the
system as a whole or comparisons across regions and other relevant categories
over time. Achievement testing for a variety of purposes has been undertaken
by various DECS offices including the Curriculum Evaluation Division of the
BEE, the Research and Evaluation Division of OPS, the National Educational
Testing and Research Center (NETRC) and the regional offices, among others,
but there has been no clear assignment of functional responsibility for the



- 9 -
type of nationally coordinated, regular program of student assessment
required for an effective monitoring and evaluation system.
2.20     Management Information System.  Previous efforts to improve the DECS
management information system (MIS) simplified school data collection forms
and procedures and installed a computer-based MIS which has reduced data
processing time. In view of the enormous amount of information routinely
processed and stored by DECS, however, computer technology is not as
effectively used as it could be to facilitate the conduct of DECS planning
and budgeting activities. The mainframe IBM computer purchased in 1987 is
utilized only by FMS for payroll functions. All other data are kept in
small, unrelated spreadsheet files which cannot draw on each other for
analyzing or even aggregating basic data. Identical data often have to be
entered into several databases to serve different user needs, which increases
the risk of data entry errors and impedes validation checks. As DECS central
office has no electronic communication links with its local offices,
information processed at the regional levels is submitted to DECS on floppy
disks or computer printouts; in the latter case the data has to be re-
entered at the central level. Due to the lack of equipment and trained
personnel in the divisions, no data are processed at this level and divisions
must rely on the regional offices for their information needs. Because of
the large amount of time devoted to data entry and because the report
preparation facilities of conventional database packages are cumbersome and
complex, the DECS annual Statistical Bulletin contains only raw statistics
for the current year, and the information and analysis required by DECS for
planning and management cannot be provided in a timely manner.
2.21     Certain weaknesses in data quality also derive from technical issues
related to the methods currently utilized to forecast enrollments and budget
requirements. Inaccuracies in enrollment projections arise because the
census-derived demographic data are not updated frequently enough, and due
to inconsistent projection methods used at different DECS administrative
levels. In the preparation of budget proposals, unit costs per student are
based on macro calculations across the country, and are neither validated by
micro methods nor take into account cost differences across geographic areas.
Related to the problem of estimating financial requirements, education
inflation estimates are currently based on national economic indices, such
as the GNP Implicit Price Deflator or the Consumer Price Index, which are
not particularly suited to the goods and services associated with the
provision of education.
2.22     Information Flow and Retrieval.  Current documentation of DECS
policies and procedures for planning and management do not facilitate the
efficient flow or retrieval of updated information. When sectoral planning
and budgeting procedures change in line with efforts to decentralize
decision-making, new or revised procedures are communicated in a stream of
notices that staff often cannot assimilate. The guidelines on school
staffing, for example, are found in numerous Department orders, memoranda,
implementing rules and regulations, circulars and inter-departmental
communications, with no indication of which provisions have been superseded
or how to resolve inconsistencies among the documents. The dissemination
of information from DECS central office relies on regional directors and
division superintendents distributing copies of communications as they are
issued, with maintenance of such information kept largely in chronological



- 10 -
files. Current indexing procedures do not immediately lead users to the
latest communication nor do they provide cross-references across time and
information sources. In the early 19808, DECS produced a draft Omnibus
Service Manual which contains both administrative and technical information,
but this has not been finalized and, given its book form and variety of
topics covered, does not address the issue of how to disseminate information
more efficiently.
C. Strategy for Sector Development
Government Priorities and Programs
2.23     Recent sector developments noted earlier (para. 1.3) demonstrate
the high priority the present Government attaches to human resource
development through education. Human resource development is a cornerstone
of the 1987-92 Philippine development plan, central to achieving the
country's primary goals of sustainable economic growth, employment generation
and the alleviation of poverty. In support of these overall development
goals, the education sector identified in its medium-term plan two main
objectives: to increase access to quality education, and to accelerate the
formation of needed middle- and high-level technical skills.
2.24     In pursuit of the goal to expand access to quality education and
training, the Government is emphasizing efforts to increase participation,
survival and achievement in elementary education, full implementation of
free secondary education, and the provision of functional literacy and
livelihood skills through nonformal alternatives. The Government recognizes
that elementary education should continue to receive budgetary priority
because effective basic education enables the majority of the population to
contribute to and benefit from economic and social development, and is the
foundation for a strong education and training network accessible to all
segments of the population. Equity improvement in the educational system,
with consequent long-term implications for poverty alleviation, will be
pursued by targeting investment expenditures towards the more disadvantaged
areas. At the same time, the Government is preparing to more adequately meet
the country's requirements for critical middle-level technical skills and
high-level scientific and technological capabilities to enhance productivity
and competitiveness. Toward these ends, the Government plans to strengthen
the national vocational and technical training system through, among others,
more effective linkages with industry, and to develop quality science and
engineering programs in colleges and universities, also in close coordination
with industry as well as with specialized research and development
institutions.
2.25     The Government's human resource development programs have elicited
considerable donor interest and support, particularly in recent years, but
assistance to the sector from United Nations agencies and bilateral
institutions consists mostly of small programs. The World Bank and the Asian
Development Bank (ADB) have been, and are likely to remain, the major funding
sources for larger investment projects. ADB is currently financing the DECS
development program in general secondary education with grant cofinancing
from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) for textbook paper,
and a comprehensive review of nonformal education focussing on resource
mobilization and the development of an institutional framework for



- 11 -
coordination among government agencies and nongovernmental organizations
(tGQ0) involved in nonformal piograms.
Bank Experience and Strategy
2.26     The Bank has supported eight education projects in the Philippines
since 1965 with a total commitment of US$232 million. Five projects aimed
to develop middle- and higher-level vocational and technical education and
training, and three projects supported basic education improvement.
2.27     The First, Second and Fourth Education Projects (respectively, Loans
392-PH, 1964; Credit 349-PH, 1972; and Loan 1374-PH, 1977) assisted in the
development of agricultural education by providing facilities and equipment
to agricultural colleges and secondary schools, and training college faculty,
agricultural extension workers and farmers. To strengthen technical and
managerial expertise and research in fisheries education, the Sixth Education
Project (Loan 1786-PH, 1979) established a university-based national center
and a network of regional fishery technology institutes and fishermen
training centers. Technician and industrial training were also supported
under the Second Education Project with the establishment of ten regional
training centers and the expansion and improvement of eight technical
institutes and science teaching centers. The infrastructure of the national
industrial training system has been strengthened under the ongoing Vocational
Training Project (Loan 2200-PH, 1982) through the restructuring of the
National Manpower and Youth Council, the institution of a system of
contracting for training in seven priority industrial and service sectors,
and the expansion of trade testing and certification. The three projects
which focussed on basic education were the Third Education Project (Loan
1224T-PH, 1976) which addressed a severe textbook shortage in elementary and
secondary education; the Mass Media Pilot Project (Loan S008-PH, 1978) which
supported experimentation in educational radio for classroom use and
in-service teacher training; and PRODED, the first Elementary Education
Project (Loan 2030-PH, 1981).
2.28     Lessons learned from the Bank's experience were identified from
Project Performance Audit Reports prepared by the Bank's Operations
Evaluation Department for the first five projects-1 and the Project Completion
Reports drafted for the Fisheries and First Elementary Education Projects.
Important lessons that cut across sectors relate to implementation and
corresponding disbursement delays that have been due mainly to protracted
procurement processes and complex budget release and payment procedures.
These issues are being addressed by, among others, efforts to streamline
procedures for procurement, consultant selection and release of budgetary
allocations. Recent Government actions to eliminate the ceilings for both
bidded infrastructure contracts and non-infrastructure contracts requiring
approval of the Department Secretary, as well as the decision taken to
release funds for infrastructure projects in the first quarter of the year
are expected to facilitate project implementation, as evidenced by DECS's
much improved record in its school building and textbook programs (paras.
Y Board Document Nos. SecM75-560, SecM82-898, SecM86-781 and SecM86-885 for
the First to Fourth Education Projects, respectively, and No. SecM84-283
(pass-through PCR) for the Mass Media Pilot Project.



- 12 -
2.7, 2.10). In the preparation of the proposed project, key lessons learned
from the first elementary education were also specifically addressed,
including: (a) the problem of textbook distribution from field warehouses
to schools due to the lack of accountability and end-user involvement;
(b) the need to earmark funds for important items such as desks, which have
been lumped into a general category for supplies and materials, making these
vulnerable to cuts when funding for non-programmed items is sought; (c) the
need for timely transmission of reimbursement documents from the regions to
the project management unit; (d) the need for a system to routinely generate
nationally representative data on student achievement to allow reliable
monitoring and evaluation of sector performance as an essential aspect of
planning and policy formulation; and (e) the critical importance of a clearly
established project management structure staffed with qualified personnel.
2.29     The Bank's operational program in education over the medium term
would continue to support both the provision of basic education as the
necessary foundation of human resource development, and the formation of the
technical skills and managerial expertise needed in a rapidly changing world.
Bank assistance rests on a strategy of identifying projects that would
increase efficiency and equity in the educational system. In this respect,
the Sector Report identified two priorities: maintaining the share of
budgetary allocations for elementary education while reducing elementary
school dropout; and rationalizing higher education through, among others,
greater use of public funds to finance programs with relatively high social
benefits and acceptable administrative costs. The proposed project has been
developed to pursue the first priority.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
3.1      The proposed project was identified in November 1988 during a review
of the Education Sector Report with the Government of the Philippines (GOP).
Further discussions in February and June 1989 led to the detailed design of
the project, described in a proposal prepared with the assistance of the
Bank. The project was appraised in October 1989.
B. Rationale, Objectives and Scope
3.2      As noted earlier (para. 2.4), the Bank has identified the areas of
persistent problems in the subsector through its involvement in sector work
and the first Elementary Education project. The proposed project would
enable the Bank to continue its technical and financial support that would
enable the Government to address outstanding issues. Bank involvement would
also support poverty alleviation by targeting educational resources to
depressed localities and children at a high risk of failure and dropout,
which is a priority need in the Philippines.
3.3      The objective of the project would be to increase equity, efficiency
and quality in elementary education through assistance to the DECS investment
program and action plan in the subsector for GOP fiscal years 1990-92. This
would be pursued through short- and longer-term measures which aim to:
(a) meet the subsector's requirements for essential physical resources, with



- 13 -
an emphasis on improving their distribution to educationally and economically
disadvantaged areas; (b) improve the professional competence of teachers and
school administrators; (c) expand the population with basic knowledge and
skills, with efforts targeted to children at risk of dropping out of school
and to illiterate out-of-school youth and adults; and td) further develop
DECS institutional capacities in planning and management of the elementary
education subsector as well as of the sector as a whole.
3.4      In support of these objectives and measures, the proposed project
would include the following components:
(a) Increasina the provision of educational infrastructure and materials
through:
ti) construction, replacement and rehabilitation of classrooms,
multi-purpose workshops and toilet facilities;
(ii) production of school desks;
(iii)printing and distribution of textbooks, teacher guides and
other instructional materials;
(iv) acquisition of small equipment and instructional aids.
(b) Improving teacher and administrator performance through:
ti) in-service training of teachers, principals and supervisors, to
improve teaching abilities as well as school and classroom
management; and
(ii) reviews of the quality of pre-service teacher training
programs, the relevance of the Professional Board Examination
for Teachers, and the adequacy of institutional arrangements
for planning teacher training, to lead to the formulation of
policy recommendations and investment needs.
(c) Expanding basic education throught
Ci) introduction of three dropout prevention measures on a pilot
basis in schools selected from the poorest municipalities in
six regions, to test their effectiveness in improving the
holding power of schools catering to low-income students;
Cii) evaluation of the relative cost-effectiveness of alternative
measures to prevent dropout, including those to be introduced
under the project, to lead to the design of a wider-scale
dropout intervention program; and
(iii)expansion of the DECS literacy training program, to provide
basic education services to the population for whom formal
schooling is not an option.



- 14 -
(d) Strengthening planning and management throughs
ti)  introduction of an annual assessment program of elementary
student performance at the National Educational Testing and
Research Center, to routinely provide achievement data
essential for effective monitoring and evaluation;
(ii) development of an integrated system of data processing, storage
and retrieval, to improve the quality, timeliness and
accessibility of information required for educational planning
and management and to initiate decentralization of information
management to the divisions;
(iii)reviews of planning and budgeting methods to project
enrollments, calculate unit costs and estimate inflation, to
improve the quality of the data used in preparing DECS targets
and resource requirements; and
(iv) development of a system for the maintenance and distribution
of organizational information, to improve efficiency in the
dissemination and utilization of information on DECS policies
and operations.
3.5      Understandings between the Bank and the Government have been reached
on an investment program and implementation schedule for the educational
infrastructure and materials component (Annex 4) as well as on the plan of
action for the other project components which sets out key implementation
steps and monitorable indicators (Annex 5). The terms of reference for
studies under the project have also been reviewed and agreed upon. The Bank
has confirmed that adequate funds have been appropriated that would enable
DECS to carry out the project activities for 1990. Assurances have also been
obtained that annual reviews of project implementation would be held jointly
by the Government and the Bank to coincide with DECS preparation of its
annual work and financial plans and budget proposals, i.e., around March or
April each year.
C. Description
Increasing the Provision of Educational Infrastructure and Materials
(Proposed outlay of US$394.8 million)V
3.6      To meet the elementary school system's requirements for physical
inputs important for educational quality and to reduce regional and
subregional imbalances in resource availability (paras. 2.5-2.10), the
project would support the increased provision and improved distribution of:
(a) classrooms, multipurpose workshops and toilets; (b) desks; (c) textbooks,
teacher guides and other instructional materials; and (d) equipment.
3.7      School Building Program.  The project would support the DECS
elementary school building program, which would include: (a) construction
of about 26,500 new classrooms to reduce the existing backlog and meet
Y This and subsequent statements represent totals including contingencies.



- 15 -
enrollment expansion requirements; (b) the replacement of about 9,800
severely dilapidated classrooms; (c) the rehabilitation of about 36,400
damaged classr,oms; (d) construction of about 4,300 new workshops; te)
rehabilitation of about 5,100 damaged workshops; and (f) construction of
about 2,800 toilets. The DECS Bureau of Elementary Education would be
responsible for setting design standards, DPWH district offices for
engineering and construction work, and local school building committees
chaired by governors or mayors and co-chaired by school superintendents for
school locations and satisfactory building completion (Annex 6). The budget
for the school building program would be allocated to the regions and
divisions based on physical need and incidence of poverty, and the selection
of program recipients would follow guidelines issued by DECS (Annex 3).
To strengthen monitoring of the school building program, each DPWH district
office would submit copies to DECS central office of its monthly progress
reports on both physical and financial accomplishments of the school building
program at the provincial level. The DPWH has also authorized its district
offices to send the necessary reimbursement documents for school building
construction directly to DECS central office, with copies to DPWH central
and regional offices, in order to expedite disbursements for civil works.
3.8      Desks.  The project would support the production of about 1.5
million elementary school desks to reduce the severe backlog caused by the
virtual suspension of the desk program over the last two years. The budget
for elementary school desks has been separated from the general category of
supplies and materials in order to help assure budget availability for the
adequate provision of the required quantities of desks. To strengthen the
monitoring of desk production, monthly progress reports would be submitted
by DECS regional offices to the central office.
3.9      Instructional Materials.  The project would support the development,
production and distribution of about 47 million instructional materials,
comprising 44 million textbooks, 146,000 teacher guides and 2.8 million
reference materials and charts. The textbook production targets are based
on the Government decision to improve the student-textbook ratio from the
current 2:1 to 1:1 by 1992. The project would also improve IMC's data system
for planning, budgeting and monitoring of its activities, including
verification of deliveries and needs. Toward this end, schools would be
informed about the quantities and delivery schedules of specific book titles
they have been programmed to receive. In order to help ensure timely
distribution, the Government has provided assurances that a minimum amount
equivalent to 4Z of the book production cost would be set aside by DECS in
order to cover the cost of the transportation of books to schools by the DECS
division offices.
3.10     Equipment.  The project would support the provision of equipment
and instructional aids (e.g., globes, maps, science and math kits) to
steadily build up their stock in elementary schools. DECS regional offices
would be responsible for allocating their fixed equipment budgets to
divisions following guidelines and criteria issued by DECS and for preparing
annual equipment procurement plans. Equipment procurement would be monitored
quarterly with reports detailing actual receipt by schools.



- 16 -
improving Teacher and Administrator Performance
(Proposed outlay of US$5.8 million)
3.11     As teacher and administrator performance is an important element
in raising the quality of elementary education (paras. 2.11-2.13), the
project would support: (a) in-service training of school teachers,
principals and supervisory staff; and (b) reviews of pre-service education,
teacher certification, and institutional arrangements for planning and policy
formulation for teacher training.
3.12     In-service Training.  To improve subject matter competency and
pedagogical skills among elementary school teachers, as well as the
management and supervisory skills of educational administrators, the project
would support the ongoing process of institutionalizing the Learning Action
Cells (LACs) system developed under PRODED as the vehicle for continuing
professional staff development. The project would support the development
and production of training modules at the regional level and in-school
training of all elementary school teachers. The school LACs would meet two
hours per month for the training sessions, with teachers expected to devote
an additional two hours in preparation for the sessions. The school LACs
activities would be supervised and monitored by the staff development
officers in the district, division and regional offices. Training sessions
would also be organized for principals, district supervisors and subject
area supervisors for regular updating of skills relevant to each of their
functions.
3.13     Review of Pre-service Training and Certification.  As a longer-term
strategy to improve teacher performance, the project would provide the
analytical basis for reforms in pre-service teacher education and
certification and thereby upgrade the quality of new teachers entering the
profession. To this end, three studies would be conducted to examine:
(a) the quality and relevance of selected pre-service elementary teacher
training programs; (b) the validity of the Professional Board Examination
for Teachers as a mechanism for determining teachers' qualification for civil
service eligibility and permanent tenure of office; and (c) the adequacy of
institutional arrangements for planning and policy formulation for teacher
training. These studies are expected to yield recommendations in a number
of areas, including standards for program evaluation, guidelines for the
consolidation or phasing out of poor quality programs, revised procedures for
certifying beginning teachers, and requirements for setting up a database and
institutional forum for planning and monitoring, and to formulate investment
needs and costs. The project would finance all costs related to the conduct
of the studies, including 36 staff-months of local expert services.
Expanding Basic Education (Proposed outlay of US$5.7 million)
3.14     To reach children at risk of leaving school prematurely and the
out-of-school population lacking functional literacy skills (paras. 2.14-
2.17), the project would: (a) introduce selected dropout prevention measures
on a pilot basis; (b) evaluate school and non-school factors affecting
student achievement and survival; and (c) expand the DECS literacy training
program.



- 17 -
3.15     Introduction of Dropout Prevention Measures.  Building on the
findings of research conducted under PRODED, the project would introduce
three dropout prevention measures in elementary schools selected from the
poorest municipalities in six regions of the country (Regions IV, V, VI,
VIII, XII and the Cordillera Administrative Region). These interventions
would bet
(a) the provision of multi-level materials, which are programmed
learning modules developed and tested under PRODED as
supplementary instructional materials to meet different learning
needs in the classroom. Proper utilization of these materials
requires teaching practices which have positive effects on
achievement including regular diagnostic testing to determine
the need for remedial instruction or reinforcement, and small
group instruction among students working on the same modules;
(b) a school feeding program with parental participation. The
program would serve daily breakfasts and include integrated
nutrition education for both parents and students; and
(c) a nonformal summer pre-school program with NGO involvement,
beginning in the second year of project implementation. The
program would focus on school readiness skills for students
entering first grade in the target communities. NGOs with
experience in running similar programs would assist in developing
the program structure, content and appropriate materials, and in
training teachers.
The implementation of these measures would be monitored and their effects
evaluated as part of the study of educational outcomes proposed below
(para. 3.16). The project would finance the production of learning materiala
required for the interventions, food supply and preparation, workshops,
training and honoraria for teachers, principals and other implementors, and
about 14 staff-months of local expert services. The 24 pilot schools where
the dropout prevention measures would be introduced in the first project
year have been selected according to agreed criteria.
3.16     Evaluation of Educational Outcomes. With a view to recommending
implementation of additional dropout prevention measures, the project would
support a study to determine the relative effects of school and non-school
factors on the interrelated educational outcomes of student attendance,
achievement and retention. The study would analyze the relationships of
home, school and community conditions to educational outcomes, and generate
a factual basis for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of targeted measures
designed to prevent dropout, including the interventions to be implemented
under this project (para. 3.15). Under the study, a school-based survey
would be conducted in school year 1990191 to obtain data on schooling
conditions and student background characteristics, achievement tests would
be administered at the beginning and end of the school year, and student
attendance would be recorded throughout the year and into the start of the
following school year to distinguish between dropping out within the school
year as opposed to between grades. The project would finance the development
and reproduction of survey instruments, implementation of the survey, and 48
staff-months of local expert services for study desiga and data analysis.



- 18 -
3.17     Expansion of Literacy Trainina.  To provide increased learning
opportunities for functionally illiterate out-of-school youth and adults,
the project would assist the expansion of literacy programs funded through
the BNFE and the Nonformal Education Divisions of DECS regional offices
(para. 2.17). The following activities would be supported: (a) the design
and development of learning materials; (b) translation, adaptation and
reproduction of materials by the regions; (c) training of literacy teachers;
(d) organization and conduct of literacy classes; (e) monitoring and
evaluation of the classes; and (f) post-literacy activities including the
establishment or maintenance of community reading centers and the provision
of neo-literacy materials. The implementation of DECS budget allocation
guidelines for nonformal education field operations would also be monitored
to help ensure targeting of appropriate programs to regions with the lowest
literacy rates.
Strengthening Planning and Management (Proposed outlay of US$3.5 million)
3.18     To expand DECS capabilities to plan and manage the elementary
education suhsector and the sector as a whole (paras. 2.18-2.22), the project
would support activities to: (a) introduce an annual assessment program of
elementary student achievement; (b) further improve the DECS management
information system; (c) conduct studies to address methodological issues in
enrollment and financial projections; and (d) create a system for more
efficient dissemination and maintenance of DECS organizational information.
3.19     Elementary Student Assessment.  To provide feedback on schooling
effectiveness to decision-makers, teachers, students, parents and the general
public, the project would institute a national system of elementary student
assessment at the National Educatioral Testing and Research Center (NETRC).
she national assessment would produce annual information on the performance
of students in selected grades (2, 4. 6) and subjects (languages, math,
science, social studies), on home and school characteristics that relate to
educational performance, and, in the long run, on sector performance over
time. The assessment would allow for comparisons by geographical area,
socio-economic status, gender, type of community, type of school, and other
characteristics which would help address important issues of resource
distribution. The results of the assessment would be disseminated through
the publication of subject reports for DECS management and the lay public,
summary reports and booklets describing annual assessment objectives to be
distributed to school principals and teachers, and technical reports and
other publications to serve research and policy analysis purposes. Two
committees would be created to advise NETRC--a national advisory committee
on policy matters and a technical advisory committee on overall design and
implementation. All instruments for the national assessment would be
developed with the assistance of the Center for Educational Measurement
(CEH). The project would finance computer equipment and software, 180
staff-months of local training, and a total of 198 staff-months of expert
services (180 local, 18 foreign) in such areas as psychometrics, computerized
item banking and test administration.
3.20     Manarement Information System.  To improve the quality, timeliness
and accessibility of information required for educational planning and
management, the project would develop an integrated system of data
processing, storage and retrieval, and initiate the decentralization of data



- 19 -
processing and information management to the divisions. Based on a detailed
plan addressing user requirements throughout the DECS bureaucracy, the
project would support the integration of the currently fragmented databases
into a more efficient information storage and retrieval system built around
DECS mainframe computer and an appropriate database management software.
After the basic system is set up, on-line interactive access would be
provided for DECS central office units, followed by two-way links between the
central office and the regional offices of Regions I, IV, VII and IX by 1992.
Processing of MIS data would be implemented in all divisions of Region VII by
1992. The project would finance computer equipment and software,
installation and maintenance of the central network and regional electronic
links, about 170 staff-months of local expert services, and about 70 staff-
months of local training.
3.21     Planning and Budgeting Methods.  To improve the quality of the data
used in preparing DECS planning targets and budget requirements, the project
would support three studies to review the methods currently applied to
enrollment projections, unit cost calculations and budget inflation
estimates. The studies would recommend a standardized enrollment projection
methodology for use by all offices concerned, appropriate methods to estimate
the costs per student for different categories (including regions, and types
and levels of education), and inflation indices appropriate to the education
sector. The results of the studies would be disseminated through training
workshops for DECS planning, budgeting and data management personnel at all
administrative levels. Pertinent information and instructions would be
documented in the relevant service manuals proposed below (para. 3.22). The
project would finance 29 staff-months of local expert services, the printing
and distribution of reports, and the conduct of related seminars and
workshops.
3.22     Distribution System for Organizational Information.   To improve
efficiency in the flow, assembly and retrieval of information on DECS
policies and operations, the project would support the development of a
system to disseminate information in an organized manner over time. The
distribution system would be based on an overall, long-term policy document
produced in book form, a series of service manuals consisting of loose-leaf
modules that would be updated whenever necessary, and a comprehensive index.
To develop such a system, the project would undertake an inventory of
existing information, a survey of user information needs and an analysis of
the longevity of specific information items. A set of procedural manuals
would then be prepared for key DECS operational areas, such as planning and
budgeting or MIS reporting requirements, and procedures would be specified
for distributing each manual to the appropriate user groups. The draft
Omnibus Service Manual (para. 2.22) would be reviewed and used as the basis
for the new modular service manuals wherein all relevant information would
be consolidated, removing inconsistencies, documenting streamlined procedures
aimed at promoting greater efficiency in DECS operations, and detailing the
responsibilities and accountability of all DECS offices and personnel. The
project would finance 15 staff-months of local expert services, production
of the policy document, service manuals and index, and workshops to explain
the system to all concerned office and school staff.



- 20 -
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.1         Summary of Prolect Costs.   The total project cost is estimated at
P 9.3 billion or US$410 million equivalent, including contingencies and
taxes. A summary of costs by project component is given in Table 4.1 and by
category of expenditure in Table 4.2. Cost breakdowns by component, category
of expenditure and project year are provided in Annex 7.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
% %Total
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign  Total  Foreign   Base
Project Component         -      -Pesos million- --  --- US$ million-----  Exchange  Cost
Infrastructure and materials
School buildings              4,644.3  1,161.1  5,805.4       203.7   50.9   2 4.6    20.0  72.2
Desks                           612.0    108.0    720.0        26.8    4.7    31.6    15.0   9.0
Textbooks                       450.5    688.1  1,138.6        19.8   30.2    49.9    60.4  14.2
School equipment                  7.3      65.7      73.0       0.3    2.9       3.2    90.0   0.9
Sub-total                     5.714.1  2.022.9  7.737.0       250.6   88.7   339.3    26.1  96.3
Teacher/administrator perf.
In-service training              93.2      16.4    109.7        4.1    0.7      4.8    15.0    1.4
Teacher training reviews          4.3       0.8       5.0       0.2    0.0       0.2     15.0   0.1
Sub-total                        97.5      17.2    114.7        4.3    0.8       5.0    15.0    1.4
Basic education
Dropout prevention                5.2       0.9       6.1       0.2    0.0       0.3     15.0   0.1
Educational outcomes eval.        5.2       0.9       6.1       0.2    0.0       0.3     15.0   0.1
Literacy training                84.7      14.9      99.6       3.7    0.7       4.4     15.0    1.2
Sub-total                        95.0      16.8    111.8        4.2    0.7       4.9    15.0    1.4
Planning and management
Student assessment               17.7      11.1      28.8       0.8    0.5       1.3    38.6   0.4
Information system               11.1       9.7      20.8       0.5    0.4       0.9    46.6   0.3
Management studies                3.0       0.5       3.5       0.1    0.0       0.2     15.0   0.0
Information distribution         13.4       2.4      15.8       0.6    0.1      0.7      15.0   0.2
Sub-total                        45.2      23.7      68.9       2.0    1.0       3.0    34.4   0.9
Project management                  3.4       0.6       4.0       0.1    0.0       0.2     15.0   0.0
Total Baseline Costs            5.955.2  2.081.2  8.036.4       261.2   91.3   352.5    25.9 100.0
Contingencies
Physical contingencies          185.8      64.9    250.7        8.1    2.8    11.0    25.9   3.1
Price contingencies             874.5    185.5  1,060.0        38.4    8.1    46.5       17.5   13.2
Total ProJect Cost SW           7,015.5  2.331.6  9.347.2       307.7  102.3   410.0    24.9 116.3
!/ Includes US$44.8 million in identifiable duties and taxes.  The totals in this and other
tables may not be exact due to rounding.



- 21 -
Table 4.2: SUMHARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Local    Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total   % Total
Expenditure Category            Pesos million  -----    - USS mil lion----- Base Cost
Civil works             4,646.3   1,161.6   5,807.9   203.8   50.9  254.7    72.3
Desks                     612.0    108.0    720.0    26.8    4.7   31.6    9.0
Textbook printingldistrib.   259.9  45.9    305.8    11.4    2.0   13.4    3.8
Textbook paper            189.8    635.3    825.0      8.3   27.9   36.2    10.3
Local training            147.8     26.1    173.9      6.5    1.1   7.6    2.2
Miscellaneous              77.2     13.6      90.8     3.4    0.6   4.0    1.1
Equipment                  9.5      85.8      95.3     0.4    3.8   4.2    1.2
Local experts              12.2      2.1     14.3      0.5    0.1   0.6    0.2
Foreign experts            0.5       2.8      3.3      0.0    0.1   0.1    0.0
Total Baseline Costs      5.955.2  2.081.2   8.036.4   261.2   91.3  352.5   1Q2.0
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies    185.8     64.9    250.7      8.1    2.8   11.0    3.1
Price Contingencies       874.5    185.5   1,060.0    38.4    8.1   46.5    13.2
Total Project Cost        7.015.5   2,331.6   9.347.2   307.7  102.3  410.0   116.3
4.2      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Base costs are estimated at May 1990
prices (date of negotiations). Costs of construction, equipment and
instructional materials were estimated on the basis of reviews of information
provided by the Government based on recent experiences in procuring similar
items. A total of about 390 and 18 staff-months of local and foreign expert
services, respectively, would be required under the project. Technical
assistance costs were estimated on the basis of recent prices for comparable
technical assistance.
4.3      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated
US$44.8 million in indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and goods.
A duty of about 232 (US$9.3 million) is expected on imported paper.
4.4      Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$11 million) and for inflation
(US$46.5 million). Physical contingencies were estimated at 3Z of the
estimated cost of all project items in view of the programmatic nature of the
investment expenditures and shortness of the time slice. Following Bank and
country guidelines, price contingencies have been estimated on the basis of
the following inflation factors: 4.9S for foreign costs, and 82 for local
costs in each of the project years (1990-92). Price contingencies are
equivalent to 132 of base costs plus physical contingencies.
4.5      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: 20Z for civil works; 15Z for desks and classroom
furniture; 152 for printing and distribution; 772 for printing paper; 90?
for equipment; 152 for local training; 152 for local experts; 852 for foreign
experts. Including contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$102.3 million, or about 252 of total project costs.



- 22 -
4.6      Recurrent and Maintenance Costs.  Modest additional recurrent costs
would be generated primarily by the need to maintain the classrooms,
furniture and equipment procured under the project and by staffing
requirements to maintain an expanded literacy training program. Maintenance
of elementary school buildings which has been a problem in the past,
resulting in the large rehabilitation and replacement program, has improved
in recent years as part of PRODED objectives to improve the balance between
salary and non-salary expenditures. The share of non-salary expenditures
increased from 32 in 1985 to 16? in 1988, and within this category, the
portion for facilities maintenance rose from 5? to 24X during the same
period. However, to ensure that the trend is not reversed, Bank review
missions would closely monitor the adequacy of maintenance. The
institutionalization of in-service teacher training and the annual assessment
program would utilize existing DECS staff at the central and regional levels,
and the information system components are designed mainly to increase
efficiency in the use of resources already assigned to these functions. The
dropout prevention measures would be implemented on a pilot basis precisely
to determine their cost-effectiveness. The total incremental recurrent costs
to be generated by the project when it becomes fully operational in 1993 are
estimated to be about P 800 million in 1989 prices and would represent 2-3X
of the DECS recurrent budget in 1993.
B. Financing
4.7      The proposed Bank loan of US$200 million equivalent would finance
49? of total project costs (55? net of taxes and duties). The Government
would finance the balance of 51? or US$210 million equivalent, including
about US$44.8 million of estimated taxes and duties. Project financing would
be in accordance with Table 4.3 below. To permit financing of expenditures
associated with school building construction, textbook production and other
activities which are mostly carried out during the first six months of each
year before school opening in June, retroactive financing of up to US$20
million equivalent would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred prior
to loan signing but after January 1, 1990.
Table 4.3: FINANCIAL PLAN
(Amounts in US$ million, including contingencies)
IBRO          GOP         Total           Local
Expenditure Category  ------------------------------------------------ For. (Excl. Duties
Amount   I   Amount   %    Amount   %    Exch. Taxes) & Tax.
Civil works            142.7  48  155.0   52   297.7  72.6   57.2  210.8  29.8
Desks                   17.4  47   19.6   53    37.0   9.0   5.3   28.0   3.7
Textbook printing/distrib.  7.8  50    7.9   50    15.7   3.8   2.3   11.9   1.6
Textbook paper         28.4  70   12.2   30    40.6   9.9   31.2   0.0   9.3
Local training          0.0    0    8.9   100    8.9   2.2    1.3    7.6   0.0
Miscellaneous           0.0    0    4.6  100       4.6   1.1   0.7   4.0   0.0
Equipment               3.7  80    0.9   20       4.6   1.1   4.1    0.0   0.5
Local experts           0.0    0    0.7  100      0.7   0.2    0.1    0.6   0.0
Foreign experts         0.0    0    0.2  100      0.2   0.0   0.1    0.0   0.0
Total              200.0  49  210.0   51   410.0 100.0  102.3  262.9  44.8



- 23 -
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. OrRanization
5.1        Since the early 1970s, foreign-assisted education projects have
been Implemented primarily by the DECS-attached Educational Development
Projects Implementing Task Force (EDPITAF). Under PRODED, however,
management responsibilities were transferred over the project period from
EDPITAF to DECS central and regional offices, which allowed DECS to develop
the capability to manage a complex sector investment program dealing with
policy reform and institutional development. Given its program support
nature, the proposed project would also be managed directly by DECS. Overall
responsibility would lie with a Project Advisory Group led by the Secretary
of Education, with the Undersecretary for Basic Education as vice-chairman.
Day-to-day Implementation of project components would fall to a number of
offices as part of their regular line functions as listed in Table 5.1.
Responsibilities of the implementing offices with respect to procurement
are given in Annex S.
Table 5.1: LIST OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES BY PROJECT ACTIVITY
Activity                   Agency       Office
infrastructure and materials
- School buildings                    DPiM
- School desks                        DECS    Regional Offices
- Textbooks/instructional materials   INC
- School equipment                    DECS    Regional Offices
Teacher/administrator perfoomaece
- In-service training                 DECS    Regional Offices
- Teacher training reviews            DECS    Bureau of Higher Education/National
Educational Testing and Research
Center/Office of the Planning Service
Basic education
- Dropout prevention measures         DECS    Bureau of Elementary Education
- Educational outcomes evaluation     DECS    Bureau of Elementary Education
- Literacy training                   DECS    Bureau of Nonformal Education
Plannina and management
- Student assessment                  DECS    National Educational Testing and
Research Center
- Management information system       DECS    Office of the Planning Service/
Financial and Management Service
- Planning and budgeting studies      DECS    Office of the Planning Service/
Financial and Management Service
- Information distribution system     DECS    Office of the Planning Service
Project manaaement                    DECS    Project Implementation Coordinating Unit



- 24 -
5.2     To coordinate the various activities of these offices. DECS has
established a Project Implementation Coordinating Unit (PICU) under the
Project Advisory Group. PICU is headed by the Assistant Secretary for
Planning and Management acting as the Project Coordinator, with four
full-time technical staff assigned from DECS-OPS and EDPITAF. It is
physically located at the DECS central office and furnished with adequate
space and equipment for its operation. The functions of PICU are to:
(a) coordinate project implementation and monitor overall progress of
project performance; (b) report semesterly to DECS and the Bank on the
status of progress; (c) raise issues needing attention; (d) give technical
advice to implementing agencies; (e) assist in management of procurement
under international competitive bidding procedures; (f) submit withdrawal
applications to the Bank and monitor disbursements of the Bank loan;
(g) arrange for timely audits of project accounts; and (h) prepare the
project completion report. Annex 9 further details the responsibilities
of PICU. The Bank has obtained assurances from the Government that the
agreed project management organizational structure and staffing would be
maintained throughout the project period.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.3     The project would be implemented over a three-year period beginning
January 1, 1990 and ending December 31, 1992 (Annex 4). The closing date
would be December 31, 1993.
C. Status of Preparation
5.4     As stated earlier, the Project Advisory Group and the Project
Implementing Coordinating Unit have been established, the Project
Coordinator selected and the full-time PICU staff from OPS and EDPITAF
identified. Agreement has been reached on a physical implementation plan
for the subsector investment program, the plan of action for other project
components, and the terms of reference for studies. Understandings have also
been reached regarding final procurement plans for the first project year.
The Government has reported that the 1990 school building and textbook
programs would be substantially completed before the opening of the school
year in June, and that start-up activities for other project components are
proceeding satisfactorily, including the selection of the pilot schools where
the dropout prevention measures would be introduced in the first project
year. Overall, the proposed project is expected to be implemented in a
timely manner because: (a) the majority of project sites are at existing
school facilities with adequate space for expansion; (b) the size of civil
works has been established in consultation with DPWH, and the UNESCO Asia
Regional Office continues to provide technical assistance on building design,
construction techniques and maintenance to DECS; and (c) standard lists and
specifications exist for the school equipment and teaching aids to be
procured under the project.
D. Procurement
5.5     For the reasons detailed below (para. 5.6), most procurement
under the project would follow local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The procurement suitable for international
competitive bidding (ICB) would be for paper to be used for textbook



- 25 -
printing. Tn the comparison of bids to be procured through ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 152, or the existing
customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing
imports. Prudent shopping and limited international bidding (LIB) or direct
contracting (for computers, specialized or proprietary items) would also be
used as indicated below.
5.6      Procurement arrangements are detailed in Table 5.2.  Most civil works
would be procured through LCB. Because of the geographical dispersion of
works resulting in small contracts ranging from US$2,000 to US$200,000, with
more than 702 of the value in contracts below US$15,000, foreign contractors
are not likely to be interested in bidding. In addition, works in remote
locations where contracting is impractical may be procured through force
account, estimated not to exceed US$30 million in aggregate. Desks vould be
procured through LCB and, for contracts below US$50,000, through prudent
shopping or negotiation with local artisans, estimated not to exceed US$3.8
million in aggregate. Interest from foreign bidders is unlikely due to the
Table 5.2: PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT METHOD
(in US$ million)
Procurement method                 Total cost
Category of Expenditure    -----------------------------------         including
ICB       LCB        Other      NA    contingencies
Civil works                 -        267.7       30.0        -          297.7
(128.3)    (14.4)                 (142.7)
Desks                       -         33.2        3.8        -          37.0
(15.6)     (1.8)                  (17.4)
Textbook printing           -         15.7         -         -           15.7
and distribution                     (7.8)                             (7.8)
Textbook paper             36.5        4.1         -         -          40.6 !
(25.6)      (2.8)                            (28.4)
Local training              -            -         -        8.9          8.9
()           ()
Miscellaneous               -            -          -       4.6          4.6
()           ()
Equipment                   -          4.1        0.5        -           4.6
(3.3)     (0.4)                  (3.7)
Local experts               -            -         -        0.7          0.7
(-)          (-)
Foreign experts             -            -          -       0.2          0.2
(-)          (-)
Totals                36.5       324.8      34.3      14.4         410.0
(25.6)    (157.8)     (16.6)     TT         (200.0)
DI Of which USS9.3 million are import duties.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.



- 26 -
decentralized regional procurement arrangements and the modest contract
values which, based on past experience, are expected to range from US$3,000
to US$160,000, with more than 50? of the value in contracts below US$50,000.
Printing and distribution services for elementary school textbooks would be
procured through LCB because of the relatively small value of contracts
ranging from US$6,000 to US$190,000 equivalent. Printing paper packages of
US$200,000 equivalent or more would be procured under ICB in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(May 1985). Smaller packages would be procured through LCB, not to exceed an
aggregate of US$4.1 million equivalent.  Equipment would be procured through:
(a) LCD for standard instructional equipment items; (b) Prudent Shopping for
items not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent for each package, not to exceed an
aggregate of US$300,000; and (c) LIB or Direct Contracting procedures for
specialized or proprietary computer items, not to exceed an aggregate of
Us$200,000.
5.7      Invitations to bid and the proposed award of contracts under ICB
would be subject to Dank review. These would comprise mainly printing paper
packages of US$200,000 equivalent or more. Procurement proposals under LIB
or direct contracting for proprietary items would also be reviewed by the
Bank. Contracts below the aforementioned thresholds and other expenditures
not covered under contract would be subject to selective post-award reviews.
As explained above, because of the small size of contracts for civil works,
prior review of civil works would not be feasible. For example, to cover
even 50? of the value of civil works, some 1,500 contracts of very low value
(US$12,000 each) would need to be reviewed. Similarly for desks, to cover
602 of the value, the threshold for prior review would need to be reduced to
US$35,000. For these reasons, it is recommended that thresholds for prior
review remain at US$200,000 to cover ICB for printing paper, and special
arrangements be made for selective review of civil works and desk contracts
during field missions.
E. Disbursements
5.8      The proposed loan of US$200 million would be disbursed over a period
of four years (Annex 10) up to December 31, 1993, 12 months after the
estimated project completion date. The disbursement forecast does not
reflect the standard profile of other Bank-assisted education projects in the
Asia Region. However, this forecast is justified considering that it
represents disbursement in respect of a time-slice of DECS priority program
expenditures, which are not significantly larger than those of the last two
to three years and for which performance was reasonable.
5.9      The proposed disbursement arrangements reflect the Government's
desire to utilize the maximum amount of loan proceeds in the early years in
order to protect basic education expenditures from being eroded at a time of
Government budgetary adjustments from increased fiscal obligations for recent
policy decisions, including public sector salary increases and the provision
of free public secondary education (para. 1.3). It is therefore recommended
that disbursement be made on a declining percentage basis against the three
major categories: civil works, desks, and printing and distribution of
textbooks, which constitute 84? of the loan. As indicated in Table 5.3,
financing percentages for these categories wou'd change after a certain level
of disbursement has taken place rather than by year.



- 27 -
5.10      Disbursements for all contracts with a value of at least US$200,000
equivalent each would be supported by full documentation. For civil works
and desks contracts below US$200,000 equivalent each and other civil works
and desks expenditures not undertaken by contract, statements of expenditures
(SOEs) would be used. Because of the size of procurement under SOEs, special
efforts would be needed by visiting Bank missions to carry out selective
reviews of these SOEs and related documentation in coordination with Loan
Department staff. PICU would be responsible for collecting the necessary
documentation on eligible expenditures under each sub-project and preparing
withdrawal applications for submission to the Bank. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$50,000 or more, prior to submission to the Bank. To expedite preparation
of withdrawal applications for civil works, DPWH has agreed to forward
directly to DECS (PICU) all relevant documentation of expenditures collected
at its district offices (para. 3.7).
5.11      Due to the program support nature of the project, a special account
is not considered necessary and therefore not recommended.
Table 5.3:  DISBURSEMENT CATEGiORIES
Category                     Amounts                Bank financing percentage
Civil works             US$138.7 million             48% (of expenditures) W
- the first US$51.7 million      - 90%
- the next US$66.6 million       - 70%
- the remaining US$20.4 million  - 20%
Desks                   USS16.9 million              47% (of expenditures) SY
- the first US$5.9 million       - 90%
- the next US$8.4 million        - 70%
- the remaining US$2.6 million   - 20%
Printing/distribution
of textbooks            US$7.6 million               50% (of expenditures) Vi
- the first US$2.2 million       - 90%
- the next US$4.4 million        - 70%
- the remaining US$1.0 million   - 20%
Equipment and printing
paper for textbooks     USS31.' million              71% (excluding duties) SY
- imported                       - 100% (of c.i.f. costs)
- locally manufactured           - 100% (of ex-factory cost)
- locally procured               - 75% (of expenditures)
Unallocated             US$5.1 million
Total         US$200.0 million             49% al
AW Averages.



- 28 -
F. Accounts and Auditing
5.12    PICU would maintain separate accounts to reflect expenditures under
the project and would be responsible for collecting related documentation
from the regions to enable selective review by visiting Bank missions.
Project accounts would be audited by the Commission on Audit (COA), which
is an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.  As project accounts are
audited by resident COA staff at the level of implementation, however, an
understanding was reached that the COA representative in DECS central office
would consolidate audit reports from all project implementing agencies,
including the DECS central and regional offices, the DPWH district offices
and the Instructional Materials Corporation. Assurances have been received
that the Bank would be provided within nine months of the end of each
Government fiscal year a consolidated audit report on project accounts of
such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs.
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Bank Supervision
5.13    PICU would be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation
of the project (para. 5.2). These activities are expected to be improved
under the project as the DECS management information system would be
strengthened with a number of inputs, including consolidation of its
databases and improved communications vith the regional offices through
networking and user training (para. 3.20). An understanding has been reached
that visiting Bank missions would be provided with the latest status reports
on actions taken in accordance with the agreed plan, physical implementation
status, and amounts of loan proceeds disbursed and committed. The Government
has also provided assurances that the Borrower's contribution to the project
completion report would be submitted within six months of the Closing Date.
5.14    Project Supervision.  Due to the wide physical and software program
coverage and the complexity of the project involving important institutional
capacity development, Bank supervision would be staff-intensive, requiring
specialists in several areas--educational evaluation, facilities planning,
information management, teacher training and student assessment. Also, in
view of the large volume of procurement to be documented under SOEs, review
of documentation by an accounting/audit specialist or Loan Department staff
would be required. In addition to joint annual reviews of DECS work and
financial programs and budget proposals for the following year (para. 3.5),
the Bank would make regular visits every four to six months to review
progress in the implementation of the physical program as well as the plan
of action. To assist DECS's newly-created coordinating unit, PICU, with
start-up implementation, the Bank plans to hold a workshop during the first
supervision mission and discuss in detail Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures, progress monitoring and reporting formats, and accounting and
procurement recording systems.



- 29 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1     Benefits.  The project would improve the quality of the national
elementary education program and enhance learning at the primary level.
It would also promote equity and support the Government's poverty alleviation
efforts by: (a) using budgetary allocation criteria which target the
distribution of educational resources to disadvantaged areas; (b) laying the
groundwork for reducing dropouts from elementary schooling among children of
poor families; and (c) expanding literacy training to the out-of-school youth
and adults who lack functional literacy. In addition, the development of
student assessment capacities at the elementary level would provide a basis
for improved sector-wide monitoring and evaluation, and improvements in the
DECS information system would result in more efficient and effective sector
planning and management.
6.2     Risks. The main risk is delayed project implementation due to
inadequate budgetary allocations to the subsector and changes in the project
management organizational structure and staffing. To minimize this risk, the
Bank has confirmed that sufficient funds have been appropriated to meet the
1990 project costs; joint annual reviews of project performance and budget
allocation requirements would be held; and organizational and staffing
arrangements as agreed with the Bank would be maintained throughout the
project period.
6.3     Impact on Women and the Environment.  Given the equal representation
of male and female students in elementary education, and girls' lower average
rates of failure, repetition and dropout, no special measures are needed to
improve access and the performance of females in elementary schools. Raising
the overall quality of elementary education and interventions to improve
retention at this level would benefit all students. The welfare of
low-income women and their families would be improved to the extent that
the literacy training component continues to address their specific needs.
The proposed project would not have any negative impact on the environment.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1     Understandings have been reached between the Government and the Bank
on:
(a) the three-year investment program, action plan by project component,
and terms of reference for proposed studies (para. 3.5);
(b) monthly progress reports to be submitted to DECS central office by
DPWH district offices on the school building program and by DECS
regional offices on desk production, and quarterly progress reports
by DECS regional offices on school equipment procurement (paras.
3.7, 3.8, 3.10);
(c) information on the quantities and delivery schedules of book titles
to be provided to schools (para. 3.9);
(d) procurement plans for the first project implementation year
(para. 5.4);



- 30 -
(e) the mechanism to consolidate numerous audit reports for timely
submission to the Bank (para. 5.12); and
(f) the latest status reports to be made available to visiting Bank
missions (para. 5.13).
7.2     The Bank has received assurances from the Government that:
(a) joint GOP-Bank meetings to review and update the action plan and
corresponding budget requirements would be held annually in time for
DECS annual work and financial planning and budget proposal reviews,
i.e., around March or April of each year (para. 3.5);
(b) a minimum amount equivalent to 4? of the book production cost would
be set aside by DECS in order to cover the cost of the transportation
of books to schools by the DECS division offices (para. 3.9);
(c) the agreed project management structure and staffing would be
maintained throughout the project period (para. 5.2);
(d) a consolidated audit report on project accounts and SOEs by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be submitted to the
Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.12);
and
(e) the Borrower's contribution to the project completion report would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the Closing Date
(para. 5.13).
7.3     Retroactive financing not exceeding US$20 million equivalent would be
provided for eligible expenditures incurred before loan signing but after
January 1, 1990 (para. 4.7).
7.4     Subject to the provisions in paras. 7.1 to 7.2 above, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$200 million
equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines for a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



_ 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Features of The Education Sector
1.       To place the elementary education subsector in sectoral context, this
annex describes the basic features of the education sector in terms of its
administrative setup, the structure and size of the system, and the magnitudes
and patterns of sector spending.
Administration
2.       The Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) is the
executive agency charged with the administration and supersision of the
country's educational system. An organizational chart is attached as
Figure 1. DECS is headed by a Secretary, who is assisted by four
Undersecretaries and the chiefs of five service units, some with the rank of
Assistant Secretary. The Office of the Planning Service (OPS) coordinates
regional sector planning, and prepares the national plan for education in
collaboration with the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA). OPS
maintains a comprehensive information system to support its planning functions
and the monitoring of sector performance. The Finance and Management Service
(FMS) works closely with OPS to draft guidelines for translating the education
plan's physical targets into budgetary requirements. EMS has primary
responsibility for preparing the budget for DECS central office, for
consolidating regional budgets, and for administering DECS expenditures.
3.       Bureaus of Elementary, Secondary, Vocational-Technical and Nonformal
Education are responsible for policy formulation, program planning and
standards development in their respective subsectors. Headed by directors,
these bureaus perform essentially staff functions, but have line authority for
technical supervision in matters relating to the curriculum, instructional
materials, physical facilities and educational evaluation. Higher education
policies are set by a Board of Higher Education, with the Bureau of Higher
Education serving as its secretariat. The Board is advised by technical
panels created for each of the major academic disciplines.
4.       Fourteen regional offices are responsible for the formulation of
regional educational plans, and for the implementation, management and
evaluation of departmental programs within the region. Each office is headed
by a Regional Director who reports directly to a DECS Undersecretary. Under
the regional offices are 127 provincial and city school divisions, headed by
Division Superintendents who report to the Regional Director. Division
offices supervise all public secondary and all private schools in the
division. Administration and supervision of public elementary schools is the
responsibility of the 2,046 district offices, which are headed by a District
Supervisors who report to the Division Superintendent.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
Structure and Size
5.       The formal education system extends from pre-elementary through
graduate education. The government is committed to providing free basic
education, which consists of six years of elementary and four years of
secondary schooling. The preschool programs offered in a small number of
schools are privately funded. Post-secondary options include non-degree
vocational and technical courses of up to three years, and degree programs
requiring at least four years of study, with entry to the latter restricted
through a National College Entrance Examination. Graduate education is
available in relatively few institutions and disciplines.
6.       In 1986, the formal education system comprised 33.000 elementary,
5,400 secondary, and 1,100 higher education institutions, with these
subsectors employing about 280,000, 99,000 and 57,000 teachers, respectively.
Total enrollments of 14 million included 9 million elementary, 3 million
secondary and 1.5 million higher education students, as well as 180,000
enrolled in preschool and 40,000 in graduate programs. These enrollments
represent gross participation rates of over 1002 in elementary, 65Z in
secondary, and 352 in higher education, much above the 1980 averages for
developing countries of 75Z, 232 and 72, respectively. There is exceptionally
high representation of women throughout the system, with female enrollments
exceeding those of males in secondary and higher education. In addition, over
400,000 attended nonformal education classes offered by DECS, almost two-
thirds of whom were women. Nonformal education (NFE) programs are offered by
DECS, other Government departments and a variety of nongovernmental
organizations to serve the education and training needs of out-of-school youth
and adults who are not able to fully benefit from the school system. These
generally take the form of short-term courses in basic and functional
literacy, occupational skills training and community development.
7.       The private school share of enrollments has remained relatively
stable at the elementary level, ranging from 42 to 62 since the 19508.
Despite some loss of enrollments to government schools in recent years, the
private sector continues to play an important role in secondary and higher
education, claiming 402 of secondary and 852 of tertiary education enrollments
in 1986. Private schools are generally classified as sectarian (i.e.,
affiliated with a particular religious group) and non-sectarian.
Non-sectarian institutions are owned either by foundations and other nonprofit
corporations, or by stock corporations which are allowed to distribute
dividends and sell shares of ownership.
8.       Public secondary schools have traditionally been classified on the
basis of their main source of funding: national schools were financed by the
national government; locally-funded schools included those financed by
provincial, city, municipal and barangay (village) governments. The national
government decided in 1987 to assume funding responsibility for all public
secondary schools. Public higher education institutions include the
autonomous state universities and colleges created by legislative acts and
governed by their own charters, and the unchartered and commwnity col1eges
supervised directly by DECS.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
Expenditures
9.       The current Administration's strong commitment to education is
reflected in the high priority accorded to the sector in budgetary support
since 1986. National government expenditure on education increased to 22Z of
total government spending in 1988 (compared to 13S in 1980), and the 1989
budgetary allocation to education accountu for 24Z of the total national
government budget. In the 1989 education budget, 14? is allocated to
maintenance and other operating expenditures, another 14? to capital outlays
(up from only 7? in 1986), and the rest to personal services.
10.      Total public spending on education as a proportion of GNP is
estimated to have risen to 2.8S In 1988. Although this is still lower than
most other developing countries, it represents to some extent the greater
efficiency of a system in which the private sector makes a large contribution
to investment in education. The share of direct social costs (i.e. costs
including household contributions other than school fees) borne by private
sources in 1986 was 18? in elementary, 54Z in secondary and 67? in higher
education. Private spending in education comes mainly in the form of tuition
and other fees paid to schools and in school-related household expenses.
Private schools receive no direct subsidies from the government, and depend
primarily on fees to meet their operating and other costs. Legislation passed
in May 1989 affirmed the right of private schools to set their own tuition
rates and provided for subsidies to students attending private secondary
schools.



V4
I L~~~~~ 
4'4S                                                     ___.i04I'-E
"1~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ 9u 3 li                 hi i  g11X   
... .........          r   rX
.jitX .            ______            _    St
iIi~~~~~        1-H          a          In~~~~VM



-35-                                 AN    2
VPILPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATIWQ PROJECT
Classroom and Desk Reauirements for Year 1990
A. Classrooms
1989                Stock as X of
Region    Requirements    Stock        Deficit   requirement
I        12,450       12,445            (5)      100
II        11,438       11,438            0        100
CAR          7,390       6,745          (645)       91
III        25,539       25,008          (531)       98
IV        33,281       32,157       (1,124)        97
V        21,914       21,570         (344)        98
VI        29,305       28,778          (527)       98
VII         21,034      19,444       (1,590)        92
VIII         19,104      18,510          (594)        97
IX        14,935       12,119       (2,816)        81
X        18,786       17,309       (1,477)        92
xI        20,336       17,535       (2,801)        86
XII         16,669      12,578       (4,091)        75
NCR         16,994      12,517       (4,477)        74
Total        269,175     248,153       (21,022)        92
B. Desks ('000)
1989                Stock as X of
Region    Requirements    Stock       Deficit    requirement
I         289.1        230.7        (58.4)        80
II         197.9        126.9        (71.0)        64
CAR           90.6        81.2          (9.4)       90
III         488.0        405.6        (82.4)        83
IV         677.7        413.8       (263.9)        61
V         379.8        217.0       (162.8)        57
VI         474.4        360.9       (113.5)        76
VII          361.6        175.0      (186.6)        48
VIII          280.2        169.2       (111.0)        60
IX         287.5        136.0       (151.5)        47
X          307.7       157.8       (149.9)        51
XI          376.4       208.0       (168.4)        55
XII          288.7        100.3      (188.4)        35
NCR         433.7         183.2      (250.5)        42
Total       4,933.3       2,965.6    (1,967.7)         60



-36-                          ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
PHILIPINE
SECOND ELEMENTARY YLMCATION PROJECT
Projection Methods for Classrooms. Desks and Books
A. Clagsrooms
Projection Methods for Setting 1990-92 _arjets
1.       The projection of needs for school buildings is jointly initiated by
the DECS Central Office and DPWH Central Office. Forecast of physical targets
is based on the five-year School Building Program. For the base year, the
existing stock of classrooms and workshops is calculated on the basis of
actual data from the Inventory of Individual Elementary Schools (IIES)
collected every five years and the following formula:
For New Classrooms:
Total Enrollment
Actual Need -  ----------------------------
Standard Class Size - 40
Note: Class size varies by province/city depending
on population density
2.       For the remaining four years, targets are based on projected
enrolment increases minus the existing stock of classrooms at the start of the
previous year plus the number of additional classrooms already provided.
Based on the overall age and standards of construction, 1.51 of the classroom
stock need to be replaced annually, and 3.5Z need serious repairs and
rehabilitation. Calculations for multipurpose workshops are based on the
intermediate enrolment size and number of shifts as follows:
Multipurpose Workshops (MPW):
Intermediate Enrolment
MPW     -  ---------------------------------------
Standard Class Size / No. of Shifts
Where: Intermediate enrollment - 271 of total enrolment and
number of shifts - 3
3.       In view of the enormous budget needed for this component, DPWH
cannot meet the requirements using the DECS standards for toilets. However,
about 1,000 toilets are programmed each year.



- 37 -                         ANNBE 3
Page 2 of 4
Determination of Regional Allocations
4.        The basis for allocating school building funds to regions, provinces
and cities are: (a) enrollment, (b) inventory of school buildings, (e)
incidence of poverty, (d) implementation difficulty factor, and (e) cost.
5.        The primary criterion at all levels is enrolment, projected on a
regional basis using the participation rate of each region. Additional
classrooms are computed on the basis of enrolment, class size and existing
stock, and poverty incidence, with the weights of 79X for physical needs and
211 for poverty incidence, and an implementation difficulty factor. Weights
for replacement and rehabilitation are similar, with 78X for physical needs
and 22X for poverty incidence. The following formulas are used.
(a) Distribution Formula for New Classrooms:
((0.79 * RRi/RRp) + 0.21 * PFi/PFp] * IDFi
Sci -
Sum of ((0.79 * RRi/RRp) + 0.21 * PFi/PFp] * IDFi
Where:  Sci -  share of region i in the total school building construction
funds
RRi -  number of rooms required in region i, calculated as
enrolment/Class size minus Existing classrooms
RRp  -  number of rooms required in the Philippines, similarly
calculated
PFi     number of poor families in region i (as supplied by NEDA)
PFp  -  number of poor families in the Philippines (as supplied by
NEDA)
IDFi -  implementation difficulty factor in region i (as supplied by
the DPWH Programming Division)
(b) Distribution Formula for Replacement and Rehabilitation:
[(0.71 * CRRNp + 0.22 PFp)J * IDFi
SRRi - --------------------------------------------
Sum of (0.78 * CRRNp + 0.22 PFi/PFp)] * IDFi
Where:  SRRi -  share of region i in the total school buildings replacement
and rehabilitation funds
CRRNi  -  cost of school building replacement and rehabilitation needs
in region i based on the latest inventory
CRRNp  -  cost of school building replacement and rehabilitation needs
in the Philippines based on the same inventory



- 38-                                3
Page 3 of 4
B. Sch-IoL.DaSA
Allocation of Desks Per Recipient
6.        It is the responsibility of the Regional Director to determine the
region's desk requirements as well as the number of government schools to be
serviced. Considering that there are three sizes of desks, Tvpes A, B and C
(for grades 1-2, 3-4, and 5-6, respectively), the region's desk requirements
are determined on the basis of the following formulas.
(a)  Dr - AD +  B  +  CD
------------------ - PFP/CL
2
Where: Dr - desk requirement for region r
A0 , BD , CD - total number of pupils enrolled in
division during SY 1987-88 (projected)
for grades 1-2, 3-4 and 5-6,
respectively
PFP - previous furniture projects computed as
total number of student furniture furnished
under ESF 81 and 84 + PRODED Phases I-III +
CEDP 1986
(b) Number of Recipient Schools -  Dr/Cl,
Where: CL - is the average class size in division 0
7.        School desks are distributed to each recipient school, taking into
consideration the school's population, the number of still serviceable student
furniture, and the number of existing buildings/classrooms where the furniture
will be housed. Once these requirements are established, the regional offices
group these requirements into a combination of districts within a division,
per division or both, to form attractive bid packages.
Selection of ReciRient Schools
8.        Previous furniture projects influence the selection of recipient
schools. Unless otherwise necessary, schools already furnished in previous
projects are accorded low priority in the selection exercise to be undertaken
by the regions.
C. Textbooks gnd Other Instructional Naterials
Needs and Government Policy
1.        The Governmnent intends to improve the current student-textbook ratio
from 2:1 to 1:1 by 1992. Table 1 shows the textbooks used by grade and



39                             ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
subject. Table 2 indicates proposed production taking into account the
requlrements based on enrollement projections and existing inventory of books
already in use. Although a 3-year life-span is assumed for textbooks, some
books survive longer. The IMC has a network of "monitors" that keep track of
the Inventory and adjust production levels as necessary.
Table 1: BREAKDOWN OF TEXTBOOK NEEDS BY GRADE AND SUBJECT
FILIPINO ENGLISH NATH  Cl/CUL H/S/Cl SCIEN. HE/LIV ART  MUSIC   PHYS. ED. TOTALS
GRADE TX  TG TX TG TX TG TX TG TX TG TX TG TX TC TX CH TG TX CH TG TX C TG TX CH TG
ONE   1  1   1 11         1                                            4 0 4
TWO   2   1  1  1 1 1   1 1                                            5 0 4
THREE  2   1  2  1  1 1   1 1        11           1 1    1 t    1 1  7 3 8
F0UR  2   1  2  1  1  1        1 11111    1 1    1 1    1 1  8 3 9
FIVE  2   1  2  1  1  1        1 1  t 1  1 1  1   1  1   1  1   1 11 0 9
SIX   2   1  2  1  1  1        1 1  1 1  1 1  1   1  1   1  1   1 11 0 9
-   -  =uS= u  -  -  -   -=   = ===  33 -333=333
ALL  11  6 10  6  6  6  3 3  3 3  4 4  3 3  2 2 4  2 2 4  2 2 4 6   6 43
Above titles exclud special publications
LEGEND:
TX     Textbooks
To     Teachers' Guides
CN     Charts
Table 2: ESTIMATED NEEDS OF INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
1990        1991        1992        Totals
Description                     --(                          s--------(O's)----------------
Textbooks                            7,744      19,009      17,400        44,153
Teachers' Guides                        -           26         120            146
Special Publications                   540         900         120         2,700
Charts                                  -                      120           120
Totas                 .284     19.935      18.900         47.119



- 40-                                            ANEX4
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEUMNTARY EIDCATION PROJECT
Proiect Processing and Implementation Schedule
Calendar Years                  CY89              C092                                           cm
IBRD Fiscal Yeas                        FY89            FM                               FY92
(Juty to Junte)                                                                                      _
Governent Fiscat Years           Y89            FY90             FM              FY92            fY3
(January to December)
Nedium-Term Develt    t Plan  197W921
Preparation                *C-C189)
Preapwraisal                     *4-/89
Appraisal                              *   0/89)
Negotiations*4-0/90)
Board Presentation                                 *4.0/9 ')
Effectivene                                                 
:opteomntatlon                     TEAR
Period
Civit Works:
Plannin;leudgets       ...              _      ... ... ... .    ... ... ...
Prep. of Projects      ... ... . ... ... ... ... . .  .  ... ...
Review of Preposals    ... ... ...     ... ... ...   ...                            ... . ... ... ...
Aprproval ofi  P          .       . . .. . ..  ... . - - D ..  . .. *- ,            ... ... ... ... ..
Constrution            ...... ... ... ... _     I  ... ...          ... ...         ... ... ... ... ...
Classroom:
Additional                             5 490           9t141           11 940
Replaced                               1,707           2. 78?          9.439
Rebabilitated                         11.216           9.0 9           t6.1?1
Workshops:
Additionel                               826           2.023           1t49t
Rehabilitated                          1.143           1 104           2.872
Tollets                                     655           1.000           1t000
9esks:
PlaninglBudgets        ... ...     ... ... ... _   ... ... ...
Packaging              .........       ...... ...       .........
Biddingrcontracting    ... ... ... ...     ... ... ...      ... ... ...
Nanufacture..                               ._               ...
Delivery                                      .             ..    ... ... ... ...
Additional Desks Prowided ('000')           300             500              700
Textbooks:
Ptanning/Suziets       ...                     ... ... ...
Packaging              ... ... _       ... ...
Bidding                .........       ... ... _   _        ... ...     .........
Printing               ............            ... ... mm  ........ .  ...
Distribution           ............ ...            ........  ... _ _                ... ... _ _     ...
Textbooks Other Pr dDistributed          7.7 EO.5)      19.0 (0.93       17.4 (1.51
(mil lion)
Ecuilxet:
Nester Lists           ...... M        ... _ _  . ... ............ ............ ............
Group4ng/Packsging  ... ... ... ...                   _ ... .    ...  _ ... .. ...  ...  ... ... ... ... ... ...
Specs & Bidding Docs   ............ ...           _  ... .......  ............ _     ...  _     ............
Bidding                ...........  ......         ..... ...        ... .  _        ... ...... ......
Testing & Acceptance   ............ ......... .. *              ...         _       _ 
CoIMiMtetPc  9:      2 fra                      |  | -(1 1 90-7)                        -J  2C92)
Ctosinol Dec2m9e)->I



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 16
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
ObJective                     Action                       Responsible  Date I  Indicator
A. IN-SERVICE STAFF TRAINING
Improve subject   Prepare annual regional plans for           Regional     1/90 A   Regional plans
matter competency teacher, school administrator and           Elementary   1/91      submitted to
and pedagogical   supervisor training                         Education    1/92      BEE, FIS and
skills among                                                  (EEDs) and             OPS
elementary school                                             Staff
teachers, and                                                 Development
develop effective                                             Divisions
school management
among              Prepare plans to monitor regional,         BEE Staff    1/90 A   Monitoring
administrators     division and school-based training         Development  1/91      plans prepared
and supervisors                                               Division;    1/92
Regional
EEDs
Revise and distribute prototype            BEE          Ongoing  Prototy e
training materials                         Curriculum             materials
Development           distributed to
Division              regions and
divisions
Produce regional training materials,       Regional
with the following targets:                EEDs
- 124,000 modules in 1990                             12/90    Materials
- 175,000 modules in 1991                             12/91    distributed to
- 224,000 modules in 1992                             12/92    divisions and
schools
Conduct training for teachers, school      Regional      12/90    Training
administrators and supervisors,            EEDs and      12/91    conducted
with the following targets:                Staff         12/92
- 100,000 teachers in 1990, 150,000      Development
in 1991,and 200,000 fn 1992            Divisions,
- 19,000 head teachers each year         Division
- 5,000 district and subJect area        Offices,
supervisor each year                   Schools
Monitor and evaluate training              BEE,         Ongoing  Monitoring
Regional              reports
EEDs                  prepared and
discussed with
central and
local DECS
officials
" A  after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



_ 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date -s  Indicator
B. PRE-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION
Qualitv and Relevance--Phase I
Organize/orient   Meeting of key Bureau of Higher               PHE           3/90 A   Meeting held
collaborators      Education (BHE) staff, Technical Panel
on Teacher Education (TPTE), and
consultants (hereinafter, the Teacher
Training Study Planning Group or TTSPG)
to discuss objectives and expected
output with primary emphasis on Phase I
Prepare draft consultant terms of           BHE           6/90     TORs aiid
reference (TORs) for Bank review and                               consultant
comment and submit names of identified                             names received
consultants to the Bank for information                            by the Bank
Hire consultant(s) with appropriate         SHE           7/90     Contract
expertise to conduct Phase I of the                                approved
study
Design Phase I    Develop plan for Phase I study design,       Consultant   7/90-    Plan prepared
sampling, data collection, analysis and                   9/90
reporting methods
Meeting of collaborators to assess and    BHE, TTSPG   11/90    Design and
approve design and methods                                         methods
approved
Develop            Develop questionnaire instrument             Consultant   9/90-    Instrument
questionnaire                                                                 11/90    developed
Meeting of collaborators to assess and      BhE, TTSPG   11/90    Instrument
approve instrument                                                 approved
Implement Phase I Administer questionnaire                     Consultant   12/90-   Data collected
1/91
Process and analyze data                    Consultant   2/91      Data analyzed
Data interpretation and report              Consultant   3/91-    Report prepared
preparation                                               5/91
Report re'sults    Distribute report to BHE/TTSPG              Consultant   6/91       Report received
of Phase I
Meeting of BHE/TTSPG to discuss results    BHE            6/91     Report
discussed
Generate           Meeting of BHE/TTSPG; Deliver                SHE           6/91     Written action
preliminary        preliminary report to DECS Central                                  plan
policy             Office
recommendations
By "A" after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
rage 3 of 16
Office(s)     Target    monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date gf  Indicator
Qualitv and Relevance--Phase II
Organize/orient    Posting of SHE key staff, consultants       BHE            3/91     Meeting held
collaborators      and TTSPG to discuss objectives and
expected output of Phase II
Hire consultants with appropriate           BHE           3/91     Contract
expertise to conduct Phase II of the                               approved
study
Design Phase II   Develop plan for Phase II study design,    Consultant   4/91-    Plan prepared
site selection, reporting methods.                        6/91
Meeting of collaborators to assess and    BHE, TTSPG   6/91         Plan approved
approve design and methods
Develop            Develop qualitative data collection         Consultants  6/91-    Instruments
instruments        instruments                                               8/91
Meeting of collaborators to assess and    BHE, TTSPG   8/91         Instruments
approve                                                            approved
Implement          Collect case study data; process and        Consultant   9/91-    Case studies
Phase 11           analyze data; interpret data and                          9(92      prepared
prepare individual case studies
Prepare summary report of case studies      Consultant   9/92      Report prepared
Report results     Distribute report to BHE/TTSPG              Consultant   3/92       Report received
of Phase II
Meeting of BHE/TTSPG to discuss results    BHE            3/92     Report
discussed
Generate final     Meeting of BHE/TTSPG                         BHE           3/92     Written action
policy                                                                                 for policy
recommendations                                                                        changes
Deliver report to DECS Central Office       SHE           5/92     Report received
Validity of PBET
Organize/orient    Meeting of key NETRC Research Division       NETRC, OPS   6/90      Meeting held
collaborators      staff, representatives of OPS, National
Board for Teachers and Civil Service
Commission, and consultants
Hire two consultants (research expert       NETRC         6/90     Contracts
and statistics expert)                                             approved
Design Studies A  Develop plans for overall study design,    Consultants, 7/90         Plan prepared
and B              analysis and reporting methods               NETRC, OPS
t "A" after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 44 -
ANNX 5
Fage 4 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                     Action                       Responsible   Date gf  Indicator
Implement studies Conduct studies                             Consultant   7/90-   Oral interim
10190    report to
NETRC, OPS
Report results    Report findings and conclusions to          Consultants  10/90    Written reports
NETRC/OPS
Develop policy implications                Consultants, 10/90    Meeting held
NETRC, OPS
Report findings, conclusions, and          NETRC, OPS   11/90    Meeting held
policy implications to National Board
for Teachers (NBT) and Civil Service
Commission
Generate policy   Meeting of NETRC, OPS, NBT and Civil        NETRC, OPS   11/90    Meeting held on
directions         Service Comnission                                                written action
plan
Staff training    Design staff training                       Consultant,   11/90    Training plan
NETRC
Conduct staff training                     Consultants, 11/90    Workshop held
NETRC
Evaluate staff training                    NETRC         11/90    Report to
Director
Desian Annual Renortino System
organize/orient   Meeting of key NETRC Research Division    NETRC, OPS,  9/90    Meeting held
collaborators      staff, representatives of OPS, NBT and    NBT
Civil Service, BHE and Technical Panel
on Teacher Education.
Develop plan for  Develop plan through collaborative          NETRC, BHE   9/90-    Plan prepared
system            discussion with BHE and the Technical                    11/90
Panel on Teacher Education
Implement plan    Write and deliver first manual report       NETRC        12/90    written report
to teacher training institutions
Planning and Coordination--Clearinahouse/Analvtic Database
Design study       Meeting of OPS, SHE, and the Technical    OPS. BHE      9/90      Meeting held
Panel on Teacher Education to design
study and methods to be used.
Select project proponent                   OPS, BHE      10/90    Proponent
selected
Determine staff needs                      OPS, SHE      10/90    Staff time
allocated
31 "A" after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date 51  Indicator
Approve design and study requirements       OPS. BHE      12/90    Study approved
Implement study    Conduct study                               Proponent    1/91-    Interim report
and staff    3/91
Analyze findings and prepare report         Proponent    6/91       Report prepared
and staff
Distribute report                           OPS. BHE      7/91     Report received
Evaluate study     Meeting with collaborators to discuss       OPS, BHE      8/91      Written plan of
results                                                            action
Deliver recomendations for actions and   OPS, BHE         9/91     Report received
additional investments needed to DECS
Central Office
Discussion Forum
Design study       Meeting of SHE and Technical Panel on       SHE            9/90     Meeting held
Teacher Education to design study and
methods to be used
Select project proponent                    SHE           10/90    Proponent
selected
Determine staff needs                       BHE           10/90    Staff time
allocated
Approve design and study requirements       BHE           12/90    Study approved
Implement study    Conduct study                               Proponent    1/91-    Interim report
plan                                                           and staff    3/91
Analyze findings and prepare report         Proponent    6/91       Report prepared
and staff
Distribute report                           BHE           7/91     Report received
Evaluate study     feeting to discuss study results,           BHE, TPTE    8/A1       Meeting hold
results            evaluate essential requirements and
costs
Generate policy   Meeting of BHE/Technical Panel on             SHE           9/91     Vritten plan of
action             Teacher Education to prepare                                        action
recommendations: deliver
recommendations for action and
additional investments needed to DECS
Central Office
V "A" after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 46 -
ANNU S
Page 6 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date Y   Indicator
C. DROPOUT INTERVENTIONS
Reach children     Prevaration work
at risk of
leaving school     Finalize design, including details of       BEE Project  3/90 A   Project team
prematurely        each intervention, project sites and        Team,                   organized,
through the        implementation arrangements                 Consultants             design and
introduction of                                                                        sampling
selected dropout                                                                       finalized
prevention
measures on
a pilot basis
Design monitoring and evaluation            BEE Project  4/90 A   Instruments
monitoring and evaluation instruments       Team,                  drafted and
Consultants            reviewed
Select sample regions and schools           BEE           4/90 A   Sample schools
selected
Print multilevel materials                  BEE           4/90 A   Materials
printed
Finalize and reproduce monitoring and       BEE           6/90     Instruments
evaluation instruments                                             reproduced
Hold orientation/training workshops         BEE Project  6/90      Orientation and
Team,                  training
regional               workshops held
teams,
Consultants
First year imolementation
Administer pretests and student             Field teams, 7/90      Pretests and
questionnaires; distribute monitoring       BEE                    questionnaires
forms and other evaluation instruments                             advinistered;
forms
distributed
Implement interventions on the use of       Field teams, 6/90-    Interventions
multilevel materials and school feeding   sample          3/91      implemented and
schools                monitoring
instruments
accomplished
Hold monthly consultative meetings with   District        6/90-    Record of
parents in designated sample schools        Supervisors, 3/91      monthly
Principals,            meetings held
Teachers
Monitor/supervise pilot classes             Regional/    6/90-    Monitoring
Division/    3/91      forms verified
District
Supervisors
MY "At after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 47 -
AMX 5
Page 7 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Wonitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date 91  Indicator
Administer posttest, collect monitoring    Field teams, 3/91       Posttest
forms and other instruments except for    BEE                      administered,
attendance record                                                  monitorina
forms collected
Prepare and finalize arrangements for       BEE           8/90-    Arrangements
sumer preschool intervention,                             3/91     finalized
including monitoring and evaluation
Implement preschool intervention            Field teams, 4/91-    Intervention
sample        5/91     implemented
schools
Initial evaluation
Process and conduct preliminary             BEE Project  8/90-    Initial data
analysis of data collected from first       Team,         5/91     analysis and
year implementation                         Consultants            reports,
workshops held
Hold workshops for mid-term evaluation,
preparation for second year
implementation
Second year implementation
Collect attendance records from             Field teams, 7/91      Pretests and
previous year, with information on re-      BEE                    questionnaires
enrollment; administer pretests and                                administered:
student questionnaires; distribute                                 forms
monitoring forms and other instruments                             distributed
(including schools and students
involved in summer preschool
intervention)
implement interventions on the use of       Field teams, 6/91-    Interventions
multilevel materials and school feeding    sample         3/92      implemented and
schools                monitoring
instruments
accomplished
Hold monthly consultative meetings with    District       6/91-    Record of
parents in designated sample schools        Supervisors, 3/92      monthly
Principals,            meetings held
Teachers
Monitor/supervise pilot classes             Regional/    6/91-    Monitoring
Division/    3/92      forms verified
District
Supervisors
!W TAA after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 48 -
AM=E 5
Vase 8 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
ObJective                      Action                        Responsilble   Date if  Indicator
Administer posttest, collect monitoring    Field teas, 3/92         Posttest
forms except for attendance record          BEE                    administered,
monitorina
forms collected
Collect attendance records from             Field teams, 6/92      Records
previous year, with information on re-      BEE                    collected
enrollment
Evaluation
Process data collected from second year   BEE,            4/92-    Data analyzed
implementation                              Consultants  5/92
Conduct full analysis and evaluation                      5/92-    Report prepared
and write final report                                    10/92
Hold workshop to disseminate and                          11/92    Vorkshop held
discuss results and policy
recomnendations of the project as input
into planning for a continued dropout
reduction strategy
0. EVALUATION OF EDUCATIONAL OUTCOMES
Determine the      Personnel Actions
relative effects
of school and      Finalize composition of study team,         BEE           3/90 A   Teams
non-school         with subgroups to manage sampling and                               finalized,
factors on the     instrument design                                                   consultants
interrelated                                                   BEE           3/90 A   hired
educational        Identify and appoint consultants to
outcomes of        advise on instrument design                 BEE           3/90 A
student
attendance,        Hire/appoint field team                     BEE           3/90 A
achievement and
retention with     Identify and appoint consultants for
a view to          data processing and analysis
recommending
implementation
of additional
dropout
prevention
measures
Samplina and instrument desian
Finalize instruments for pilot-testing      BEE,          5/90 A   Instruments
and send copy to Vorld Bank for review    Consultants              tested and
reviewed
Finalize instruments for printing,          BEE,          6/90     Instruments
including initial achievement tests         Consultants            printed
"A l after the tarset date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date W   Indicator
Field work
Administer initial achievement tests;       Field teams  7/90       Initial tests
begin recording of attendance record                               administered
Administer other student, class, and        Field teams  9/90       Instruments
school questionnaires                                              administered
Field checks to ensure attendance           BEE, field   8/90-    Monitoring
records are kept                            teams         3/91     reports
Administer final achievement test           Field teams  3/91       Final tests
administered
Collect attendance records                  Field teams  6/91      Attendance
records
collected
Data orocessino and analysis
BEE,          7/90-    Data coded and
Code and enter data on computer as each   Consultants  9/91        entered
phase of data collection is completed
Clean data and obtain preliminary           BEE,          9/91-    Preliminary
descriptive statistics                      Consultants  12/91    statistics
obtained
Analyze data                                BEE,          1/92-    Data analyzed
Consultants  4/92
Prepare report                              BEE,          4/92-    Report prepared
Consultants  9/92
Hold conference to discuss results of       BEE           12/92    Conference held
evaluation and design future policy
interventions to improve educational
outcomes
E. LITERACY TRAINING
Expand and         Development and production of learning      Learning      Ongoing  6,500 copies
improve the BNFE  materials for three literacy levels          Resource                each of 6
literacy program  (writing, field testing,                     Development             titles, and
by providing       revision/refinement, printing,              Division,               2,500 copies of
adequate staff    shipment/distribution)                       BNFE                    teacher's
support for staff                                                                      manuals
training,
materials
production,
distribution and
evaluation
W  "Al after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page I0 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date 8Y  Indicator
Orientation and training of literacy        BNFE-         Ongoing
teachers, writers and other NFE             Learning
implementors                                Resource
Development
Division
(LRDD),
Regional MFE
Divisions
- Sponsor degree programs for NFE           8NFE Staff   12/90    14 NFE
Coordinators and BNFE researchers         Development  12/91    Coordinators
Division      12/91    and 1 BNFE
(SDD)                  researcher
sponsored per
year
- Sponsor short-term program for NFE        BNFE-SDD      12/90    4 three-month
coordinators and teachers, BNFE                         12/91    courses held
researchers and other NFE implementors                  12/92    per year
- Conduct training workshops for            BNFE-LRDD    12/92    20 literacy
literacy writers to enhance regional                             writers trained
capabilities                                                      per region
- Conduct training workshops for            BNFE-         12/90    5,000-8,000
literacy teachers                         SDD/LRDD,    12/91    regular
Regional NFE 12/92    teachers and
Divisions              para-teaches
trained per
year
- Conduct observation tours and study       ONFE-SOD      12/90    Grants to 14
grants                                                  12/91    NFE field
12/92    implementors
and 4 BNFE
researchers
awarded per
year
Organize and conduct literacy classes       Regional NFE 12/90    5,000-8,000
Divisions/   12/91    classes
Division NFE 12/92    conducted per
Offices                year
Monitor and evaluate literacy classes       BNFE-SOD and Ongoing  Monitoring
field                  reports on
offices                literacy
classes and
activities
Post-literacy activities including          BNfE and      Ongoing  400-900 reading
establishment or maintenance of             field                  centers per
community reading centers and provision    offices                 year
of neo-literacy materials
" TA" after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
rage 11 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date Y   Indicator
F. ELEMENTARY STUDENT ASSESSMENT PROGRAN
Design an          Prepare planning documents and detailed    NETRC, BEE,  1190-    Planning
assessment         statements of objectives for meeting of   Center for   2/90 A   documents
project to         staff and consultants                        Educational
collect data                                                    Measurement
on 5 curriculum                                                 (CEM),
subjects at 3                                                   Foreign
grade levels                                                    experts
Convene meeting of foreign experts and      NETRC, BEE,  3/90 A   Draft of design
local staff and consultants to discuss      CEM                    plan; minutes
options and design assessment                                      of meeting
Circulate draft of design plan to local    NETRC          6/90     Summary of
and foreign consultants for review and                             comments
coNments
Convene meeting of National Advisory        NETRC         7/90     Minutes of
Committee to discuss project design                                meting
Development of     Formulation of linkage mechanism             NETRC         6/90-    Final copy of
institutional                                                                7/90      linkage
linkages                                                                               mechanisms
Printing and mailing of project             KETRC         8/90-    Brochures
description brochures                                     9/90     printed and
mailed
Prepare            Convene test development committees,        NETRC, BEE,  8/90-    Minutes of
assessment in      one each in math and science, to             CEH           9/90     meetings
math and science  develop objectives and specifications
for grades 2, 4    for assessments
and 6
Write item specifications based on          CEM           10/90    Item
committee deliberations                                            specifications
in math and
science
Write test questions for math and           CEH           11/90-   Test questions
science                                                   12/90
Edit items and prepare pre-tests            CEM           1/91-    Manuscript
2/91
Print pre-tests, select schools for         CEM           2/91-    Pre-tests
try-outs, administer pre-tests                            3/91     administered
Score and analyze results                   CEM           4/91      Item analyses
Revise and edit results Ot pre-tests,       NETRC, CEM   5/91-    Manuscript
prepare for printing tests                                6/91
Print tests and administration manuals      CEM           7/91     Printed tests
/ "An after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 52 -
AM= 5
Page 12 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date #W  Indicator
Prepare, ship tests and manuals to          NETRC         11/91-   Tests
schools, administer tests                                 12/91    administered
Score tests, prepare data tape              NETRC         1/92-    Data tape
3/92
Data analysis, draft reports                NETRC, CEM   4/92-    Draft reports
8/92
Print and issue reports                     DECS          9/92     Reports
Prepare student/  Convene committees of experts                CEM           9/90-    Minutes of
teacher/school                                                                10/90    meetings
questionnaires
Draft questions, send out for review,       CEI           11/90-   Pre-tests
pre-test questions                                        2/91
Score and analyze results                   NETRC, CEl   3/91-    Results
5/91
Revise and print questionnaires             CEl           6/91     Questionnaires
Administer and analyze results              NETRC. CEN   7/91-    Data analyses
2/92
Include results in reports                  NETRC, CEl   8/92      Reports
Acquire and        Acquire and install electronic              NETRC          10/90-   Equipment on
install            equipment necessary for project                           12/90    site
electronic
equipment
Train staff in use                          NETRC         12/90-   Trained staff
1/91
Develop system  and programs                NETRC         1/91-    Systems and
5/91     programs
Disseminate        Prepare detailed dissemination plan         DECS          7/92      Plan
results of math
and science
assessments
Prepare draft press releases                DECS          7/92     Draft releases
Solicit statements from leaders             DECS          8/92     Statements
Organize press conference                   DECS          8/92
Print 30,000 sumaries, mail to schools   NETRC            8/92     Summaries
mailed
Mail reports to national and regional       NETRC         9/92     Reports mailed
leaders
Convene national press conference,          DECS          9/92     Press
issue press release and written                                    conference,
statements                                                         press release
V "Al after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 53 -
ANmX 5
Page 13. of 16
Office(s)     Target   Monitoring
Objective                     Action                       Responsible   Date SI  Indicator
Development of    Convene 3 test development comaittees       NETRC         6191-    Ninutes of
assessments in    to develop objectives ant                                 7/91    meetings
English, Filipino specifications
and social
studies
for grades 2, 4
and 6
Write item specifications and prepare      CEN           8/91-   Test questions
test questions                                           10/91
Prepare pre-tests and select schools       CEN           11191-   Pre-tests
for try-out                                              2/92
Administer pre-tests and analyze           CEN           2/92-    Data analysis
results                                                 3/92
Revise and print tests and manuals,        NETRC, CEN   11/92-   Tests
ship to schools                                          12/92    administered
Score results                              NETRC         12/92    Scored tests
Selection of       Using DECS files, select regional          NETRC         8/90     Lists of
school samples    samples of school samples to fit design                            schools
Contact schools to secure cooperation      NETRC         10/90-   Lists of
2/91     schools
Regional meetings to train school          NETRC, CEN   8/90-    Trained staff
personnel                                                10/91
Quality control visits during              NETRC. CEN   1/92      Quality control
administration                                                    reports
S.  ANA6EHENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
Interpretation of User requirements                           OPS, FNS,    6/90      Requirements
databases                                                     Development            analysis
Academy of
the
Philippines
(OAP)
System design                              OPS, FNS,    9/90      Design report
DAP
System implementation                      OPS, FMS,    12/90    IBM configured
DAP
Conversion of existing databases           OPS, FPS,    3/91      Databases
DAP                    loaded
User training                              OPS, FNS,    Ongoing  Ongoing
DAP
SI UAU after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 54 -
ANNIEX 5
Page 14 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date 91  Indicator
Support and maintenance                     OPS, FHS,    Ongoing  Ongoing
DAP
Central Office     Installation of Local Area Network          OPS, FNS,    7190       LAN installed
network            (LAN) on a pilot basis in Central           DAP
Office
Training of senior executive network        OPS. FMS,    8/90      Training
users                                       DAP                    completed
Training of network specialists             OPS, FHS,    7/90-    Training
DAP           12/90    completed
Expansion of LAN to incorporate             OPS. FNS,    2/91      LAN installed
remaining users                             OAP
Installation of Gateway to lem              OPS, FNS,    3/91      Gateway
mainframe                                   DAP                     installed
Training of remaining users                 OPS, FNS.    4/91      Training
DAP                    completed
Regional links     Establish pilot link with first region    OPS, hHS,    12/91    Link
to 4 regions                                                   DAP                     operational;
users trained
Establish links with three additional       OPS, FMS,    12192    Link
regions                                     DAP                    operational;
users trained
HIS at divisional  Review and modify databases for             OPS, FMS,      10/91    Databases
levels             installation in divisions                   DAP                     modified
Install modified databases and train        OPS, FNS.    12/92    Databases
users in all divisions of Region VII        DAP                    installed and
training
completed
Educational MIS    Develop criteria for ERIS assessment        OPS, DECS    6/90       Criteria for
(EMIS) Support                                                 Regional                ERIS assessment
Offices
(DECSRO)
National orientation on the assessment    OPS, DECSRO  9/90        ERIS personnel
of EIlIS                                                           oriented
Annual assessment of ElIS                   OPS, DECSRO  10/90    ERIS assessed
10/91
10/92
Annual awards for outstanding EllIS         OPS, DECSRD  11/90    Award granted
11/91
11/92
AW "All after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 15 of 16
Office(s)     Target    Monitoring
ObJective                      Action                        Responsible   Date alI  Indicator
Transfer of DECS  Construction of physical facility             DECS          2/92     Construction
mainframes to                                                                          completed
University of
Life site
Computer installation                       OPS, FHS,    2/92      Computer
DAP                    operational
H. PLANNING AND BUDGETING METHODS
Improve the        Prepare statements of work; identify        OPS, FMS,    6/90       Statements of
quality of the    qualified researchers: prepare strategy    Consultant                work; contract
data used in       for implementation; select consultants                              documents;
preparing DECS                                                                         consultants
planning targets                                                                       selected
and budget
requirements
Identify representatives from private       OPS, FMS,    7/90      List of
institutions and student groups to          Consultant             representatives
discuss education cost index
Standardize        Conduct study and produce report            OPS, FHS,    12/91    Draft report
enrollment                                                     Consultant
projection
methodology
Prepare computer program                    Computer      12/91    Computer
programmer             program
Print manuals                               Technical     10/92    Printed manuals
Services
Hold workshops                              OPS, FMS      12/92    Workshop held
Develop            Conduct study and produce report             Consultant   7/90      Report produced
appropriate
methodologies for
calculating per
student costs
Prepare computer program                    Computer      12/91    Computer
programmer             program
Print manuals                               Technical    10/92    Printed manuals
Services
Hold workshop                               OPS, FVS      12/92    Workshop held
Develop an         Consult with interested group               OPS, FMS,    8/90       Consultative
education cost                                                 Consultant              meeting
index
Conduct survey and gather data              OPS, FNS,    2/91      Data collected
Consultant
SY "A" after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 56 -
AMX 5
Page 16 of 16
Office(s)     Target    monitoring
Objective                      Action                        Responsible   Date i/  Indicator
Complete report                             OPS, FMS,    5/91      Report
Consultant             completed
Reach agreement on index                    OPS, FMS,    8/91      Agreement
Consultant             reached
Finalize operating procedures:              OPS, FMS,    12/92    Procedures and
continuous updating of index                Consultant             program in
place
I.  INFORMATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Improve            Analyze user requirements                   DEC Manuals  12/90    Detailed design
efficiency                                                     Task Force,             and plan
in the flow,                                                   Local
assembly and                                                   consultant
retrieval of
information on
DECS policies
and operations
Develop, implement index                    Technical    2/91      Database
Services               operational
Create overall policy document              Technical    6/91       Policy document
Services,              created
Local
consultant,
relevant
units
Create loose-leaf manuals                   Technical    6/91      Manuals created
Services,
Local
consultant,
relevant
units
Produce policy document                     Technical    1/92       10,000 copies
Services,              produced
Printer
Produce loose-leaf manual                   Technical    1/92      13 million
Services               pages produced
Hold regional and division workshops        Technical    4/92      Workshops held
Service
Hold divisional meetings                    Division      5/92     Meetings held
offices
'I VA0 after the target date indicates the actual date an action was completed.



- 57 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 5
PHILIPPINE.
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
The School Building Program (SBP)
1.        The School Building Program (SBP) is a continuing program to
provide the public elementary schools with sufficient classrooms, multi-
purpose workshops and toilets. This program was accorded high priority to
ensure adequate accommodation facilities to the schools nationwide. The
formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the School building
Program is jointly undertaken by DECS, DPWH, and DBM. DECS identifies the
schools that will receive school building projects (new construction and/or
repair) in any given year, with DPWH serving principally as the engineering
and construction arm, and DBM being responsible for the overall financing of
the program within approved budgetary allocations. The SBP is a component of
the larger and more comprehensive National Infrastructure Program (NIP).
However, the fiscal allotments for its regular operations are built into the
annual appropriations of the DECS.
Formulation of the SBP
2.        Based on the 5-year Infrastructure Program for 1987-1992 and
considering the fiscal parameters of the coming budget year, a budgetary
ceiling for each budget year is set by the NEDA Board's Development Budget
Coordination Committee where the DBM acts as the technical secretariat. The
DPWH breaks down the Infrastructure Program ceiling into the various project
categories including school buildings, based on an assessment of total needs
and in consultation with DECS. DPWH presents this proposed breakdown by
project category to the NEDA Board's Committee on Infrastructure for its
approval V.    The budget ceiling for elementary school buildings covers:
(a) classrooms: (i) new construction of additional classrooms to
accommodate enrollment increment; (ii) replacement of damaged or
dilapidated units caused by natural ageing and calamities; and
(iii) repair and rehabilitation of existing units to restore them
to good condition;
(b)  multi-purpose workshops: (i) new construction, and (ii)
rehabilitation; and
(c) toilets.
3.        The process of determining regional allocations is described in
Annex 3. Regional allocations are based on enrolment, inventory of school
buildings, class size, incidence of poverty, implementation difficulty, and
1/   More recently, in the application of the regional budget allocation
criteria, DPWH treats its share of the Infrastructure Program, net of
school building, as one lump sum to be broken down by region. Each
Regional Development Council decides on the distribution its share by
project category.



- 58-                          ANNEX 
Page 2 of 5
cost. These regional allocations are further distributed into provincial and
city allocations by the Regional Development Councils upon the recommendation
of the DECS regional offices. At the sub-national levels, the formulation of
the SBP essentially starts at the school level as follows:
(a) The School Head/Principal determines the school needs with respect
to building projects on the basis of the School Development Plan,
as required by school planning minimum standards. The school Head
in consultation with local officials (barangay council/P.T.A.)
prepares and submits priority list proposals to the District
Supervisor.
(b) The District Supervisor consults local school boards, municipal
mayor/councils, consolidates into district priority lists and
submits to the Division Office.
(c) The Division Office Planning Unit consolidates and submits above
lists/proposals to the City/Provincial School Building Committee,
for review and approval.
(d) The School Building Committee reviews and approves the priority
lists, forwards approved list to the Regional Office. The
Provincial Governor/City Mayor is the chairman with the
City/Provincial Schools Superintendent (DECS), City/District
Engineer (DPWH), and Development Officer as members.
(e)  The Decs Regional Office - Regional Planning Unit in consultation
with the Civil Works Coordinator consolidates division priority
lists, using the following DECS guidelines: (i) first priority -
schools where there are twice as many classes as there are
classrooms in good repairable conditions; (ii) second priority -
schools where there are more classes than classrooms but the
class-classroom ratio is less than 2:1; and (iii) special
priority - schools in the resettlement/relocation areas, cultural
minority groups, etc.
4.        Upon the receipt by the regional offices of the regional budget
allocations, the final stages in formulating the SBP are as follows:
(a) PreRaration of Provincial Budget Allocations. The Regional
Development Council (RDC) deliberates on the allocation of the
budget per province based on the approved regional budget
allocation, forwards the budget ceiling per province to the
Provincial Development Council.
(b)  Preparation of the M4unlciRal Budget Allocations.  The Provincial
Development Council (PDC) deliberates on the budget per
municipality. The DECS superintendent serves as a member of the
PDC.
(c) PreRaration of School building Projects. The Municipal Development
Council (MDC) deliberates on the schools within its jurisdiction.
The determination of priorities is based on the resolutions for



-59 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
projects submitted by the different barangays and the listings from
the district supervisors of the DECS.
(d)  Reyiew and Evaluation of Municipal Proposals.  The different
municipalities submit their proposed plan to the PDC. Together
with the DPWH District Office, the project proposals are reviewed
and evaluated against the Provincial Development Plan and Program
and the DPWH's issued guidelines and standards. A feasibility
study is also conducted by the DPWH District Office.
(e)  Review and Evaluation of Provincial ProposAls.  The Provincial
Development Council consolidates the provincial project plan and
submits it to the Regional Development Council (RDC). The RDC
reviews the proposals against the Regional Development Framework
Plan and Regional Development Investment Program. The RDC
consolidates the regional project plan.
(f) Checking of Compliance of Regional School building Projects with
DPWH Guidelines and inclusion in Regional Infrastructure Program.
The regional project plan is submitted to the DPWH Regional
Office and NEDA.  The DPWH checks for compliance with DPWH
guidelines and includes the selected individual projects in the
Regional Infrastructure Program.
(g) Consolidation of the SBP with the National Infrastructure Program
(NIP) and checking consistency with the 5-Year Medium-Term Plan.
The NEDA Board's Committee on Infrastructure reviews the
consistency of the projects with the Philippine Development Plan
and confirms their inclusion in the overall infrastructure program.
The DPWH Central Office reviews the compliance of the projects with
DPWH guidelines and includes the projects in the overall DPWH
National Infrastructure Program.
(h) Approval of the National Infrastructure Program (NIP). The NIP is
presented to the NEDA Board for review and the President as head of
the NEDA Board approves the same.
Imnlementation and Monitoring of the SBP
5.        Procedural Guidelines in the Release of Funds.  The process for the
release of funds is as follows:
(a) The Department of Budget and Management (DBM) releases the original
copy of the Advice of Allotment (AA) direct to DPWH-CO. To
facilitate project implementation, DBM simultaneously sends a
certified true copy of the AA direct to the implementing DPWH-RO on
the basis of which, the said DPWH-RO is authorized to incur
obligation. A copy of the AA will, likewise, be furnished to DECS-
RO for monitoring purposes.
(b) The DBM issues the Funding Warrant (FW) direct to the servicing
bank of the DPWH-RO.



- 60 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
(c) The corresponding Notice of Funding Warrant Issued (NFWI) is
forwarded directly to the recipient DPWH-RO, copy furnished to
DECS-CO and DPWH-CO.
(d) The original copies of the AA and the FFWI are used by the DPWH-GO
to record the allotment and the direct release of funding warrant
to the implementing DPWH-RO.
(e) The DPWH-CO, within three days of receipt of the original AA,
advises the DECS-CO and DPWH-RO through a "Notice to Proceed" to go
on with the implementation of the SBP in accordance with the
project listing indicated in the AM.
(f) Based on its copies of the AA, NFWI and Notice to Proceed, DPWH-RO
records in its books of accounts as cash in bank, the amount
directly released by DBM.
(g) Accordingly, the DPWH-RO proceeds with the implementation of the
SBP and records in its books as trust liability the deposit made by
DBM to its current account with the servicing bank.
(h) Upon completion of the project, the DPWH-RO issues a Certificate of
Project Completion and turns over the completed project to the
concerned DECS-RO which forwards the same to its DECS-CO.
(i) The DPWH-RO drops from its books the asset and invested surplus
accounts by issuing a journal voucher, copy furnished to DPWH-C0.
The DPWH-CO responds by recording the completed project in its
books.
(j) Disbursement of funds is carried out in compliance with all
applicable existing government accounting and auditing rules and
regulations.
6.        Procedure in the Implementation of Various Projects.  The DPWH-RO
upon receipt of the Notice To Proceed, performs the following through the
City/District Engineer:
(a) Conduct the prequalification, bidding and awarding of contracts for
school building projects in accordance with the approved plans and
specifications.
(b) Enter into contracts for the implementation of the SBP.
(c)  Construct, replace, rehabilitate and complete as well as re;,air and
maintain elementary school buildings in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications.
(d)  Conduct periodic inspection of school infrastructure projects and
issue instructions for the immediate correctioo of defects in the
work.
(e) Review and approve the Statements Of Work Accomplished and
Certificates of Project Completion submitted by the contractors.



-61 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 5
(f) Issue the Certificate of Project Completion.
(g) Approve submitted Statements of Work Accomplished prior to progress
payments, and in case of final payment, a Certificate of Completion
and a corresponding Certificate of Acceptance issued by the DECS-
RO representative.
(h) Issue and submit to the regional and central offices of DECS and
DPWH, and the DBM, periodic Statements of Work Accomplished on the
school infrastructure projects for monitoring purposes.
Monitoring System
7.       To assess and/or review the efficiency and effectiveness of project
implementation by the field offices, an interim DPWH Project Monitoring System
(PNS) was designed. The design aims to provide DPWH's top management with the
necessary information on the progress of projact implementation pending the
institutionalization of a totally computerized system. To generate
information, PMS uses the following four reporting formats:
(a)  PMS Form 8801-A.  Physical Status of Individual Projects (Including
Physical S-Curve. SC-1)
(b)  PMS Form 8801-B.  Financial Status of Individual Projects
(Including Financial S-Curve, SC-2)
(c) PMS Form 8802-A. Overall Financial Status Summary by
District/City/PMO/REGION (Including Overall Financial S-Curve, SC-
1)
(d) PMS Form 88Q2-B. Overall Financial Status Summary by
District/City/PMO/REGION (Including Overall Financial S-Curve, SC-
2)
8.       The schedule for the submission of monthly and quarterly reports to
regional and central offices is as follows:
Responsible                   Submission
Office                      Schedule
8801 A and B      PHO/DE/CE               Monthly to ROs; Quarterly to
Offices                CO; cut-off date is the
25th day of each month
8802 A and B       -do -                  Monthly
8801 A and B      Regional                Quarterly to CO
Offices
8802 A and B       - do -                 Ten days after the end of
each month
____.___----_----------- ,._ ---.----.--------_____ ---------_ ---_ -_   _  -_.-



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Cost Tables
Base Costs by Expenditure Category and Year
- -------Pesos million--------------    Foreign Exchange
1990      1991       1992      Total        %   Pesos mi.
A.  CIVIL WORKS                      1,250.1   1,914.4   2,643.4   5,807.9          20.0   1,161.6
B.  DESKS                              144.0      240.0      336.0      720.0       15.0      108.0
C.  TEXTBOOK PRINTING/DIST.             53.7      127.6      124.5      305.8       15.0       45.9
D.  TEXTBOOK PAPER                     145.6      342.9      336.5      825.0       77.0      635.3
E.  LOCAL TRAINING                      46.8       60.8       66.3      173.9       15.0       26.1
F.  MISCELLANEOUS                       22.6       36.1       32.2       90.8       15.0       13.6
G.  EQUIPMENT                           48.0       28.6       18.7       95.3       90.0       85.8
H.  LOCAL EXPERTS                        7.2        4.6        2.5       14.3       15.0        2.1
I.  FOREIGN EXPERTS                      0.0        2.2        1.1        3.3       85.0        2.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1.718.0   2,757.2   3,561.2   8,036.4          25.9   2,081.2
Physical Contingencies               53.6       86.0      111.1      250.7       25.9       64.9
Price Contingencies                  62.6      306.5      690.9   1,060.0        17.5      185.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                  1,834.2   3,149.7   4,363.2   9,347.2          24.9   2,331.6
Taxes                               195.2      352.5      474.6    1022.2         0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                    471.7     825.5    1034.4    2331.6         100.0   2,331.6
Total Costs Tncluding, Contingencies by Expenditure Category and Year
----------Pesos million-----------          -----USS million----------
1990    1991      1992      Total       1990    1991   1992    Total
A. CIVIL WORKS                  1,336.2  2,196.1  3,254.7  6,787.0        58.6    96.3   142.8   297.7
B. DESKS                          154.0    276.0    415.4    845.4         6.8    12.1    18.2    37.1
C. TEXTBOOK PRINTING/DIST.         57.4    146.7    154.0    358.1         2.5      6.4      6.8    15.7
D. TEXTBOOK PAPER                 153.8    380.0    391.2    925.1         6.7    16.7    17.2    40.6
E. LOCAL TRAINING                  50.1      69.9     82.0    202.0        2.2      3.1      5.6     8.9
F. MISCELLANEOUS                  24.1      41.6      39.8    105.5        1.1      1.8      1.7     4.6
G. EQUIPMENT                       50.7      31.7     21.8    104.2        2.2      1.4      1.0      4.6
R. LOCAL EXPERTS                    7.7       5.3       3.1     16.1       0.3      0.2      0.1      0.7
I. FOREIGN EXPERTS                  0.0      2.4       1.3       3.7       0.0      0.1      0.1     0.2
Total PROJECT COSTS             1,834.2  3,149.7  4,363.2  9,347.2        80.4   138.1   191.4   410.0
uum=uumuuamwsaumuus 33usB"s w assaB"     inUUUUU3uUUUUUUUUUUUabUUin



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
Base Costa by Project Comgonent and Year
.---------Peso8 million---           -----   Total in
1990       1991        1992       Total   USS million
A. INFRASTRUCTURE/IATERIALS
1. SCHOOL BUILDINGS             1,247.6    1,914.4    2,643.4       5,805.4      254.6
2. DESKS                          144.0       240.0      336.0        720.0       31.6
3. TEXTBOS                        199.3       474.5      464.8      1,138.6       49.9
4. SCHOOL EQUIPMENT                45.0        14.0       14.0         73.0         3.2
-... ;... _..._.  ....... ... ...................................... .......
Sub-total                          1,635.9    2,643.0    3,458.2       7,737.0      339.3
B. TEACHER/ADMIN. PERFORMANCE
1. IN-SERVICE TRAINING             29.3        36.6       43.8        109.7        4.8
2. TEACHER TRAINING REVIEWS         2.8         1.6        0.5          5.0        0.2
........ ................... _._ ........-  --------    .......... ......
Sub-total                             32.1        38.2        4.4        114.7         5.0
C. BASIC EDUCATION
1. DROPOUT PREVENTION               2.7         2.6        0.7          6.1        0.3
2. EDWC. OUTCOMES EVAL.             4.0         1.7        0.4          6.1        0.3
3. LITERACY TRAINING               26.2        36.7       36.7         99.6        4.4
.__....................._._............... -----
Sub-total                             32.9        41.0       37.9        111.8        4.9
D. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
1. STUDENT ASSESSMENT               8.5        10.7        9.6         28.8        1.3
2. INFORMATION SYSTEM               6.6        11.9        2.3         20.8        0.9
3. MANAGEMENT STUDIES               0.7         1.5        1.3          3.5        0.2
4. INFO. DISTRIBUTION               0.3         9.5        6.1         15.8        0.7
Sub-total                             16.1        33.5       19.3         68.9         3.0
E. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                   1.0        1.5        1.5          4.0         0.2
Total BASELINE COSTS               1,718.0    2,757.2    3,561.2       8,036.4      352.5
Physical Contingencies             53.6        86.0      111.1        250.7        11.0
Price Contingencies                62.6       306.5      690.9      1,060.0       46.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                1,834.2    3,149.7    4,363.2       9,347.2      410.0
Taxes                             195.2       352.5      474.6      1,022.2       44.8
Foreign Exchange                  471.7      825.5    1,034.4      2,331.6       102.3
.............................. ......................................   ----------................. 
Total Costs Includinz Contingencies by Component and Year
------------Pesosf llion-------------        ---------USSm mliton--------
1990      1991     1992      Total        1990    1991   1992    Total
A. INFRASTRUCTURE/MATERIALS
1. SCHOOL BUILDINGS            1,333.5   2,196.1   3,254.7    6,784.4       58.5    96.3   142.8    297.6
2. DESKS                         154.0      276.0     415.4      845.4       6.8    12.1    18.2      37.1
3. TEXTBOOKS                     211.2      531.2     549.5    1,292.0       9.3    23.3    24.1      56.7
4. SCHOOL EQUIPMENT               47.5       15.5      16.3        79.3      2.1      0.7     0.7      3.5
.......... -..-------...-----.......--.  _.---._----  ....... ............. ....................................__ . .
Sub-Total                         1,746.4   3,018.8   4,235.9    9,001.0       76.6   132.4   185.8    394.8
B. TEACHER/ADMIN. PERFORMANCE
1. IN-SERVICE TRAINING            31.4      42.1       54.2       127.6      1.4      1.8     2.4      S.6
2. TEACHER TRAINING REVIEWS        3.0        1.9       0.7         5.6      0.1      0.1     0.0      0.2
........... ................................. . .... _ ------------------...........-----------............... _ ......
Sub-Total                            34.4       43.9      54.9       133.2      1.5      1.9     2.4       5.8
C. BASIC EDUCATION
1. DROPOUT PREVENTION              2.9       3.0        0.9        6.8       0.1     0.1      0.0      0.3
2. EDUC. OUTCMES EVAL.             4.3        1.9       0.5         6.7      0.2      0.1     0.0      0.3
3. LITERACY TRAINING              28.0       42.3      45.5       115.7      1.2      1.9     2.0      5.1
... ... _...................................................... ...........----------------------_ .. ... 
Sub-Total                            35.2       47.2      46.9       129.3      1.5      2.1     2.1      5.7
0. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
1. STUDENT ASSESSMENT              9.1       12.1      11.7       32.9       0.4     0.5      0.5      1.4
2. INFORMATION SYSTEM              7.1       13.3       2.8        23.2      0.3     0.6      0.1       1.0
3. AMAAGEIENT STUDIES              0.8        1.7       1.6         4.1      0.0      0.1     0.1      0.2
4. INFO. DISTRIBUTION              0.3       10.9       7.5        18.7      0.0      0.5     0.3      0.8
.......... ;~.................. _. .. ..... _i ------  -  ..._. .. .... ; .. ._.. _._ ..... _ _
Sub-Total                            17.2       38.0      23.7        78.9      0.8      1.7     1.0      3.5
E. PROJECT  WUMAGEMENT                 1.1       1.7       1.9         4.7      0.0      0.1     0.1       0.2
-----.--------------  .    _...... .. .... . ..__........ ....... ............................._
Total PROJECTS COSTS              1,834.2   3,149.7   4,363.2    9,347.2       80.4   138.1   191.4    410.0
_                                               _~~~~a



0oeCt  byExudl    e Cteov old Prieft Cmnn
(Psos illton)
Scum.                   SCOM   INl-SUR. TRACVI  DRoOT    OM.  LtTtI  SlDNT  11PM-  NAA-  IFOR- PROJT
SUILD-           TfXT-  NUIP-   STAFF  TINO.  PRW- OUTCOS M"   ASSESS-  ATtION   OENI   ATtION MImE-
tUGS  DES0KS      IIEIIT    TooS.   VEV.   TION    ESM.  TMiN.               T   SysIN S"nS DIST.    N               TOTAL
A. CIVIL WOS              5.8.4                                           * -    -        -        -       -      2.5  *           .       -      5, .9
S. OEM.   70.0                                   .          .     .                                                                                 720.0
C. TXTSOOK PRINTINWDIT..                      305.6                                                                                                 305.8
0. TEXTOCK PAPER                               M D2S.0            -     -        -        -. -                                                          02.0
E. LOCAL TRAINING                      -         -              6 68.0          0        0.7    95.S      1.8      1.       5    4.5                173.9
f. NISELLANUS                  -                               41.6             5.7      4.7      4.1   1S.O       3.0    1.6   11.1    4.0         90.8
G. EOWI_NT                                      7.7   73.0        -     - S               -        -     6.0       8.6                              95".3
N. LOCAL EXPERTS               -       .                 -        -    5.0      0.2      0.7              2.7      5.0    0.4    0.2                 14.3          a
1. FOREIEXPERTS                        ,         ,                                        .        ,     3.3       ,          ,                      3 .
Total DASELINE COSTS      5,605.4  720.0  1,138.6   73.0   109.7   5.0          6.1      6.1    99.6   28.8    20.8    3.5   15.8    4.0    8,036.4
Physical Contin cies    181.1   22.5         35.5    2.3       3.4   0.2      0.2      0.2      3.1    0.9       0.6    0.1    0.5    0.1         250.7
Price Contingencies       797.8  102.9    117.8    4.1        14.6   0.4      0.6      0.4    13.0    3.2        1.8    0.5    2.4    0.S    1,060.0
.................................................................................................................................
Total POECT cOSTS         6,784.4  845.4   1,m.0   79.3   127.6   5.6           6.8      6.7   115.7   32.9    23.2    4.1   18.7    4.7    9,347.2
Taxes                     678.4   84.5    249.S    7.9         0.0   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.7       1.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    1,022.2
Forelgn Exchane         1,302.5  121.3    m.6   71.4    18.4   0.8            1.0      1.0    16.7   12.3    10.7    0.6    2.7    0.7    2,331.6
.................................................................................................................................
0h
V%



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
1. Procurement of Goods and Services for Specific Components
- Assist in the assessment of needs and preparation of master lists and
cost estimates of items to be procured
- Prepare bidding documents
- Submit documents for clearance
- Initiate Invitations for bidding
- Evaluate bids
- Prepare evaluation reports and make recommendations for awards
- Expedite contract execution, inspection, acceptance certification and
claims for damages when necessary
2. Civil Works (in the case of DPWH only)
- Coordinate with DECS in the assessment of needs and preparation of
designs
- Submit design proposals for clearances to GOP and the Bank (in this
particular case, standard school designs would be reviewed by Bank
staff only during appraisal)
- Initiate Invitations for bidding
- Evaluate bids
- Prepare evaluation reports and make recommendations for awards
- Expedite contract execution and provide site supervision
- Monitor performance of contractors and processing of payments and
report to PICU



- 66 -
ANNEX 9
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Coordinating Unit (PICU) Responsibilities
1. Overall Coordination
- Coordinate project implementation activities
- Monitor project progress
- Collect data from implementing agencies
- Prepare semesterly status reports
- Justify budgetary requirements on behalf of the implementing agencies
- Provide assistance to visiting missions
- Carry out annual reviews with the Bank and DECS
- Liaise with the Bank
2. Finance and Bookkeeping
- Maintain separate project accounts
- Make payments against project activities implemented by DECS central
office
- Keep implementing agencies informed of the status of their finances,
particularly on loan fund utilization and balances
- Monitor expenditures and loan disbursements
- Prepare and submit withdrawal applications to the Bank
3. Training and Technical Assistance
- Expedite implementation of all staff training components
- Make arrangements for the appointment of local or foreign experts when
requested by implementing agencies
- Administer exchange programs for technical assistance
4. Administration
- Provide general administrative support
- Keep records and filing in order, purchase supplies and consumable
materials for the operation of PICU
- Make travel arrangements for supervision of field activities



- 67 -
ANNEX 10
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Disbursement                       Disbursement  Semesters
IBRD                       __     _   Cumulative    Profile (Z)        from
Fiscal Year    Semester    Cumulative       as S of      Asia Region   Approval
and Semester   -----(US$ million)----        total        Education       Date
1991
lst          29.9         29.9           152              0?           1
2nd          44.9         74.8           37Z              3S           2
1992
1st          37.6        112.4           562              6S           3
2nd          37.6        150.0           752             10?           4
1993
1st          26.0        176.0           88t             14Z           5
2nd          16.0        192.0           96Z             22Z           6
1994
1st           8.0        200.0          100?             34?           7
2nd                                                      46Z           8
1995
1st                                                      582           9
2nd                                                      66?          10
1996
1st                                                      74?          11
2nd                                                      822          12
1997
1st                                                      86?          13
2nd                                                      94?          14
1998
1st                                                     0OOS          15
Closing Datet December 31, 1993.



- 68 -
AME  31
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the SectorLSubsector
1. Department of Education, Culture and Sports
The Outcomes of Philippine Elementary Education, 1976
Research Report on the Philippine School Cost Study, 1983
The Determinants of Learning in Philippine Elementary Schools, 1986
Philippine Education Indicators 1965-85, 1986
Statistical Bulletins, School Years 1984185, 1985/86
Pupil Progression in the Elementary Grades, 1987
2. National Economic Develooment Authority
Philippine Yearbook, 1983, 1985
Medium-Term Development Plan 1987-92, 1987
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
1. Department of Education, Culture and Sports
Proposal for an Education Sector Project, 1989
C. Working Papers
1. C. Currin, 'Teachers and Teacher Education in the Philippines,* 1989
2.  V. Demetriou,  School Buildings, Desks and Textbooks,' 1990
3. L. Dove, *Quality of Elementary and Secondary Education,* 1989
4. E. Franco, 'Strategy for Management Reforms in Education., 1989
5. Y. Hirosato, "Study of Nonformal Education in the Philippines,* 1989
6. V. Paqueo, 'On the Problem of Elementary Grade Completion,* 1989
7. J-P Tan and A. Mingat, 'Cost and Financing of Education in the
Philippines," 1989



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22098
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                                                                         PHILIPPINES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                               mbatl SECOND  ELEMENTAR]
I ILOCOS             VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                 It)
2   I tt7C,cOS None  4ws Akrln  EDUCATION  PROJECT
2 Itoco Sur            39 Capiz
I La Union            40 Antt4que                            BATANES
4 PaWItin' Iloilontjna  Ofi
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATIVE 42 Negros ccident                                                                DCS Regional Offces
REGION (CAA R            4   GuLhama                                                                 o    Province Capitals
11 Abra        VII CENTRAL VISAYAS
7 MOUrtaAn PMvi        44 Cegtu                                    -                               6      oNiational Capital
I lfugao               46 Cohol
4 Bengue               47 Siquipjr                                                                       Province Boundaries
It CAGAYAN VALLFY   VIII EASTERN VISAVAS
Io Batn                 4 8 Northern Samnar                                                               P   -   Region Boundaries
II Cagayan              4 '1 Westemn Snar mh m
I Asaheta               0o EastemSamar                            -_ _                                    Irternational Boundaries
1  Nueva Vizcaya       - I Leyte 
14 Quirito              -.' Southemn Leyte               I      T_
Ill CENTRALLUZON             S1 8llral' I _  Oj                                oll-an
1 '1 Nueva Edia   IX  VEiTERN MINDANAO                        - _z
t6 TaIac               i4 ZambOanp del Norte             I\
17 Zalse               1,,5 Zamboanga del Sut  S'FeoO 2'0   ,
1tS Pznpanga            56   1an 
I 9 BMfl21              37Sulu                                                                     a                        is' 2  2
19 Batatn   57 Siu                       (    I 1 \ 1~4/                   MN.ESO 0       50      100     150     200
6     20 Bulaan                5  Ttawiuwi                          -  _\ /t
NATIONAL CAPITAL    X  NORTHIERN MtINDANO                4
RE ION tNCRI)            s  Surigao del Norte             _               b
IV  SOUTHERN TAGALIr,        60 Camiguln                     I ° h25    '1
21I Aumor               61 Agusan del Norte                         I                   
22 Queson               62 Mlsainis Orital                              u     |    0      Z
2.1 Rizal               63 Misamnis Ocddentl    at       ie *
24 Cavlte               64 B8ktdoon        °        I        -                                      / o tol'! .
2   Laguna              63 AJ mat del Sur
26 Ramangat       XI SOUTHERN MiN aoANAO               2        Yai
27 Marinduque           66 Surlgao del Sur
218 Mindoro Orienta     67 Davao Orienlai                w                          2 |   et  V
29 Mindoro Occidental   b9 Oavao dei Nort               ..  2         22              0                CATANDUANES
30 Romhtloti            6 9 Davao del Sur                       -                                          TND1NE
31 Palawan              70 South Cotabato          /-         .                       3) 34
V  8ICOL             Xl CENTRAL MINDANAO                                                      opt"
32 Cauaines Nonte       71 Lanao del Norte               -<o
33 Caiarne Sur          72 Laam delSw 0ur                        CSI*pe' ft'
34 Cantanduanes         73 North Cotabato           ao..a          -
35 Albay                74 MaguIVnao                   1      2-
36, Sotsogn             75 Sulan KUdarat            MINDORt
37 Masbate
;030               BU         (2  R
12                                                }                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4<}  12
PALAWAN                       V I S A V                          aol-i0
. '  tro vrtse                     IvIGR#5S         ll  I
P52et4 PA,nces.)
0~~~~~~0
CHINA
C H I NS                                                                       .
PHILIPPINES
asset tlFJIE3                                             \  SULU
-  ,                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~e ai/aaoefqaoeva.a rorrewm
I N a O N F.s I A                                                                 1
MAY 1 990



