Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 16177
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3244-PH)
December 30, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Name of Currency         =    Peso (P)
Appraisal Report US$1    =    P 22.80
ICR (Date) US$1               P 25.80
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BEE            Bureau of Elementary Education
CCPAP          Coordinating Council for the Philippines Assistance Program
CHED           Commission of Higher Education
CY             Calendar Year
DBM            Department of Budget and Management
DECS           Department of Education, Culture, and Sports
DIP            Drop-out Intervention Program
DPWH           Department of Public Works and Highways
EDPITAF        Educational Development Projects Implementing Task Force
GoP            Govemment of the Philippines
ICB            Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IMDC           Instructional Materials Development Center
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
LET            Licensure Examination for Teachers
MIS            Management Information System
NEDA           National Economic and Development Authority
OECF           Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PBET           The Professional Board Examination for Teachers
PICU           Project Implementation Coordination Unit
PRODED         Program for Decentralized Educational Development
SAS            Student Assessment System
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SBP            School Building Program
SEEP           Second Elementary Education Project
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
SRA            Social Reform Agenda
TEEP           Third Elementary Education Project
Vice President:  Marianne Haug, Acting EAP
Director:      Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAI
Division Chief:  Sven Burmester, EAIHR
Task Manager:  Richard Meyers, Sr. Operations Officer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface    ......................................................                                                                 i
Evaluation  Summary .....................................................                                                        ii
Part I: Implementation Assessment
Project Background ...............................1.......................
Project Context ..........................................1............
Project Objectives ......................................................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................4
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................7
Project Sustainability ......................................................9
Bank Performance .....................................................                                              10
Borrower Performance .....................................................                                          10
Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                                         11
Future Operation ......................................................11
Key Lessons Learned ...................................................... 12
Part II:   Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:                Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3:                Project Timetable                                                                           16
Table 4:                Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual.                                         17
Table 5/6:              Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation.                                       18
Table 7:                Studies Included in Project                                                                 20
Table 8a:  Project Costs .21
Table 8b:   Project Financing .22
Table 9:                Economic Costs and Benefits .22
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 11:               Compliance with Operational Manual Statement .24
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .24
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions .25
Annexes
A. Aide Memoire ..............................                                                                      26
B. Borrower Contribution to ICR ..............................                                                      32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. It contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3244-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Elementary
Education Project (SEEP) in the Philippines, for which Loan 3244-PH in the amount of
US$200 million equivalent was approved on July 3, 1990 and made effective on August
30, 1990.
The US$200 million SEEP loan was closed on June 30, 1996, and was fully
disbursed as scheduled on October 31, 1996 except for $53.92 which are being cancelled.
The loan was extended three times from the original closing date of December 31, 1993.
Total disbursements came to US$ 175 million (US$ 25 million was cancelled in 1995).
Parallel financing was provided by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) in
the amount of US$ 145 million during the period of 1991-1996.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Mari Takahashi Parker, Consultant, under the
supervision of Ms. Francoise Delannoy and Mr. Richard Meyers, EA1HR. The ICR was
reviewed by Mr. Sven Burmester, Division Chief, EAIHR, and Mr. Walter Schwermer,
Project Advisor, EA1DR. Mr. Serge Theunynck, Consultant, and Ms. Mari Takahashi
Parker, Consultant, conducted the implementation completion mission. OECF's views
were obtained during the mission.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's Implementation Completion Mission
of November 1-15, 1996. It is based on material in the project files as wel' as information
received during the completion mission. The Borrower prepared its report on the
implementation of the project which is included in Annex B to the ICR.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 3244-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Second Elementary Education Project (SEEP) was the Bank's ninth education and
training project in the Philippines. SEEP was prepared in 1988, just as a previous loan, the
Program for Decentralized Educational Development (PRODED) was closing. SEEP was
designed to build on this earlier effort, while simultaneously supporting the GoP's poverty
alleviation efforts. The SEEP project was prepared during a recession, when all
Government agencies suffered budgetary cut-backs. Initially, the project was conceived as
supporting a broad range of educational activities. Given the shortage of funds available,
however, the GoP decided to focus its investment on the construction of schools, the
printing of educational materials and the production of classroom equipment. Thus a
revised project design, prior to negotiations, provided budget support to the Department of
Education, Culture, and Sports (DECS) subsector investment program and action plan
during the recession years (CY1991-1993) with the expectation that the economy would
pick up, and the Government would find it easier to meet its planned expenditure for levels
of broad quality improvement initiatives in later years.
Objectives
The overall objective of the project was to increase equity, efficiency and quality in
elementary education through assistance to the DECS subsector investment program and
action plan for Government fiscal years 1990-1992. Specifically, the project aimed to: (a)
provide essential school infrastructure and other physical resources equitably to support the
three-year DECS physical investment program for elementary education; (b) improve the
effectiveness of teachers and administrators; (c) increase the basic learning attainments of
targeted groups; and (d) strengthen DECS institutional capacities in planning and
management.
Implementation Experience
The SEEP loan was closed on June 30, 1996 and was virtually fully disbursed' as
scheduled on October 31, 1996. The project was designed to disburse the Bank-financed
US$200 million in three years (between 1990-1993). Two months before the closing date
1 Remaining balance $53.92.



iii
of December 31, 1993, the project had disbursed only US$50 million (67% of estimated
amount). The loan was extended for a year until September 31, 1994 and an additional
US$75 million was disbursed, in part because of tighter supervision. As a result of the
OECF offer of parallel finance in 1994 of US$145 million, the Bank agreed to extend the
closing date for the second time to December 31, 1995; US$25 million was canceled at
that time. The project was extended a third time to June 30, 1996 to permit full
disbursement.
Results
The project was generally successful in meeting its objectives, particularly in terms of
the satisfactory implementation of its physical components (construction of buildings,
equipment and materials). The School Building Program substantially achieved its
objectives. The original target was to construct about 26,500 new classrooms. DECS
financed approximately 47,500 classrooms over the six years of implementation. This is
almost twice the number of classrooms planned for at appraisal. Activities undertaken
within the desk production subcomponent exceeded the appraisal target of 1.5 million
desks in three years. The project obtained 2.5 million desks during the six years of
implementation (0.4 million per year) and sustained an average production of 420,000
school desks per year. The original objectives included the production and distribution of
44 million textbooks, 146,000 teacher guides and 2.8 million copies of a range of reference
material and charts. The subcomponent target was achieved; 83 million textbooks have
been printed and 79 million have been forwarded to the Divisions. This represents 180
percent of the planned quantities and an annual average production of 13.8 million
textbooks.
In 1995, GoP issued Law No. 7836 to strengthen the regulation and supervision of the
practice of teaching in the Philippines. The Professional Board Examination for Teachers
Study, financed by the project, has had a significant impact on the future status of teacher
training and teacher licensing by highlighting the issues and initiating a policy dialogue. The
Drop-out Intervention Program subcomponents have been successfully completed and
activities are being expanded under the DECS operating budget to address drop-out,
particularly within the schools in economically depressed communities. A pilot study on
drop-out prevention was conducted in 30 schools from five regions.
Sustainability
In view of the clear national priority now given to improving the quality of
elementary education, there is little doubt that activities conducted under SEEP will be
continued into the foreseeable future. The project was primarily budget assistance and the
activities supported by the loan were the construction of classrooms, purchase of desks,
textbooks, and equipment. Since these are standard items/annual expenditures in the



iv
DECS budget, the sustainability of these subcomponents is not dependent on external
financing. With the improvement of the economy, higher budget appropriations for these
line items can be expected. Therefore there is a good reason to have confidence in the
sustainability of the project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Ensure that project components directly serve the project objectives. For all the
emphasis given in the loan's objectives to the quality of elementary education, only about
4 percent of project costs went to cover the three components that address issues of school
efficiency, quality, and equity. Involved Bank staff noted that because the proceeds from
the Bank loan were not put into the educational quality improvement components (teacher
training, national achievement tests and pilot drop-out interventions) supervision missions
were less inclined to become involved with those components even though they had a more
direct correspondence with the improvement of student learning and achievement.
Sharing supervision responsibilities between Washington and the Resident Mission
can be efficient and effective. During the project, staff from the Resident Mission and
Headquarters participated in all missions, and several useful studies were produced. For the
future, the development of a supervision management system within DECS would broaden
the pool of shared information resources, lead to more collegial relationships between Bank
and DECS staff and reinforce the Borrower's self-evaluation capacity.
Management information, coordination mechanisms and financial accounting
systems must be operational at loan effectiveness. The lack of fully functional systems
compromised DECS ability to monitor ongoing activities, execute action plans, and plan
supervision missions.
Ongoing monitoring and evaluation is especially important in education sector
projects. Unfortunately, despite the Bank's emphasis (recorded in project documents and
aide memoires) on monitoring and evaluation down to the school-level, budgets and
mechanisms for these activities were not forthcoming throughout the life of the project. In
some cases information does not exist to show that the inputs even reached the targeted
schools, much less that they were able to improve the quality of teaching and learning.






Philippines
Second Elementary Education Project
(Loan 3244-PH)
Part 1. Project Implementation Assessment
Project Background
1.    The Second Elementary Education Project was the Bank's ninth' project in
education and training in the Philippines. It followed the Third Education Project of 1976
(Loan 1224-PH), which successfully developed national capacities for producing and
distributing educational materials, and the Sector Program for Elementary Education
(Loan 2030-PH, 1981), which came to be known as the Program for Decentralized
Educational Development (PRODED). PRODED introduced new policies and structures
for financing and management, a curriculum reform with improved instructional materials,
and staff development programs for the Department of Education, Culture and Sports
(DECS). SEEP was prepared in 1988, just as PRODED was closing, to support the
earlier effort by providing the elementary education subsector with a second phase of
improving equity, efficiency and quality, while simultaneously supporting the GoP's
poverty alleviation efforts. Bank sector work2 noted the considerable achievements of the
Philippine educational system supported inter alia by the Bank financed educational loans,
highlighting particularly enrollment rates comparable to those in developed countries,
extensive private sector participation, and high female participation.
Project Context
2.    The Philippines experienced an economic recession between 1988 and 1993. The
SEEP was prepared during the down-turn (in 1988), just after all Government agencies
suffered budgetary cut-backs. Although the project was conceived as supporting a broad
range of educational activities, given the shortage of funds available, the GoP decided
prior to negotiations to focus its investment on the construction of schools, the printing of
educational materials and the production of classroom equipment. It was hoped that SEEP
would inject low interest foreign currency into the economy while maintaining the
momentum of previously introduced educational improvements, without allowing the
investment in elementary education to drop. The revised project design provided budget
support to DECS' Subsector Investment Program and Action Plan during the recession
1 The eight preceding projects are: First Education Project (Loan 0392-PH, 1964); Second Education
Project (Credit 0349-PH, 1973); Third Education Project ( Loan 1224-PH, 1976); Fourth Education
Project (Loan 1374-PH, 1977); Mass Media Pilot Project (Loan S008-PH, 1978); Sixth Education
Project (Loan 1786-PH, 1980); First Elementary Education Project ,alias Sector Program for
Decentralized Elementary Education (Loan 2030-PH, 1981); Vocational Training Project (Loan
2200-PH. 1982)
2 Report No. 7473-PH, December 1988



2
years (CY1991-1993) with the expectation that the economy would pick up, and the
Government would find it easier to meet its planned expenditure for levels of broad quality
improvement initiatives in later years. The risks section in the SAR stated that: (i)
implementation could be slowed due to delayed allocations of counterpart funds in GoP
components, and (ii) changes in the project management structure and staffing could
temporarily reduce implementation capacity on the ground. DECS was implementing a
Bank financed project for the first time. SEEP was to be managed directly under the
DECS instead of under EDPITAF (Educational Development Projects Implementing Task
Force), a task force created specifically for implementing foreign funded projects. At
project appraisal, the Bank sought assurances that funds for at least the start-up year had
been secured and these would be released to DECS in an expeditious manner. Even given
its relatively modest goals, it was believed that SEEP would at least support further
institutional development in the DECS, which would allow it to formulate and implement
better educational policies, including a more targeted poverty alleviation strategy. The
project also permitted a continuing policy dialogue that could lead to further lending.
A. Project Objectives
Statement of Objectives
3.    The objectives of the project were to increase equity, efficiency and quality in
elementary education through assistance to the DECS Investment Program and action plan
in the subsector for GoP fiscal years 1990-92. This was to be accomplished through
short- and longer-term measures and investments which aimed to: (a) meet the subsector's
requirements for essential physical resources, with an emphasis on improving their
distribution to educationally and economically disadvantaged areas; (b) improve the
professional competence of teachers and school administrators; (c) expand basic
knowledge and skills among at-risk children and support a non-formal literacy program for
out-of-school youths and adults; and (d) further develop DECS institutional capacities in
the planning and management of the elementary education subsector as well as of the
education sector as a whole.
4.    Specifically, the project financed: (a) infrastructure for targeted schools including
construction and rehabilitation (classrooms, workshops, and toilets), desks, textbooks, and
school equipment to alleviate severe shortages; (b) in-service training at the regional level;
(c) pilot drop-out intervention measures in selected low-income municipalities and a non-
formal literacy program; (d) a new national elementary student assessment program; (e) an
improved MIS; (f) an improved information dissemination system to strengthen DECS'
capacity for planning and management of the sector; and (g) studies. Financing for
infrastructure was approximately 96% of the base cost, training was 2%, and all other
expenditures taken together were financed at 2% of the base cost.



3
Evaluation of Objectives
5.    SEEP's objectives were consistent with the GoP's Education Sector Development
Strategy3 and well in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The objectives
correctly identified persistent problems in the subsector: (i) inadequate physical resources,
(ii) lack of overall school effectiveness, (iii) high drop-out rates, (iv) and the need to
strengthen the planning and management capacity of the education system. The objectives
were clear and important to GoP as well as its growing education sector. However, the
proceeds from the Bank loan were intended largely for school construction, while the
educational quality aspects of the project were to be financed by the GoP. The initial
efforts of PRODED had focused on curriculum design, teaching methods and materials,
and their pilot-testing. When achievements in these areas had been consolidated it would
have been appropriate to shift attention to a nation-wide expansion and planned
investment in physical infrastructure. With hindsight it is clear that the institutional
capacities of the DECS operating units in planning, management, and program
implementation for the elementary education subsector needed more ongoing support than
they were provided and what had commenced with PRODED clearly required a more
targeted Bank follow-up.
Evaluation of Design
6.    DECS was faced with two serious challenges:  (i) that of accommodating a
steadily increasing student population, and (ii) maintaining quality improvements in the
elementary education subsector in the face of dwindling budgetary allocations.
Simultaneously, DECS was in the process of taking active leadership at the World
Conference on Education for All-conference initiatives addressed quality, efficiency and
equity issues in elementary education. The GoP clearly needed budget support if it was
going to maintain the dynamism which had only recently come to characterize the
elementary education sector. The goal of disbursing the loan proceeds over the three year
time slice was optimistic compared to the SAR's disbursement profile for education sector
projects for the Philippines. However, the project preparation team  noted4 that
disbursement would be made as a percentage of the total elementary education investment
program rather than against specific expenditure categories. Still, there is an element of
"misfit" between what the Bank financed and what it hoped to accomplish. To some
degree leaving the quality aspects of the project for Government financing constrained
Bank efforts to ensure accountability.
3 The Ten Year Development Plan
4Minutes of the Preappraisal Review Meeting, September 8, 1989.



4
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    The project has been a qualified success. The implementation of the physical
components (construction of buildings, equipment and materials) was particularly
noteworthy; however educational quality improvements were not significant. The project
objectives were to be attained through four project components, each with
subcomponents/activities that were expected to be completed over the life of the project.
Component one, Educational Infrastructure and Materials (US$349.8 million),
encompassed the school building program, production of school desks, printing and
distribution of textbooks, and the acquisition of equipment and instructional materials.
Component two, Improving Teacher and Administrator Performance (US$5.8 million),
included in-service training of teachers, principals and supervisors and a study of the
quality of pre-service teacher training programs. Component three, Expanding Basic
Education (US$5.7 million), was comprised of drop-out prevention measures, the
evaluation of educational outcomes, and the expansion of literacy training. Component
four, Strengthening Planning and Management (US$3.5 million), funded elementary
student assessment, MIS, planning and budgeting methods, and the distribution system for
organizational information. Achievements under each component are described below.
Table 5 compares the appraisal estimates with the actual achievements of the project.
8.    Component One.   The School Building Program  (SBP). This component
substantially achieved its objectives. The original target was to construct about 26,500
new classrooms (over the three- year life span of the project) to reduce the existing
shortage of classrooms and to accommodate enrollment expansion. The Bank and OECF
loans have enabled DECS to finance approximately 47,500 additional classrooms over the
six years of implementation. This is almost twice the number of classrooms planned for at
appraisal although the pace of construction was slower than anticipated. Only 14,200 of
these were financed under the Bank loan due to the agreement to reduce the scope of the
SBP to 5 regions (NCR, CAR, Regions I to III); the others were financed under an OECF
loan signed in 1994. In addition, about 5,000 classrooms were financed by other public
sources5 and other donors6. The shortage of sanitary facilities was also ameliorated. The
target for toilet construction was 2,800 units in three years. A total of 4,300 bathroom
facilities were built in six years.
9.    The other SBP inputs led to the replacement of 2,750 classrooms, only 28 percent
of the 9,800 planned. The rehabilitation of 32,000 classrooms corresponds to 88% of the
subcomponent objective of 36,400, and 44 percent of the planned annual average. This
modest achievement of replacement and rehabilitation targets explains the ever-growing
number of schools with a sub-optimal physical environment. Part of the original plan of
work on the "rehabilitation back-log" has been funded and implemented by local
Countryside Development Fund, Presidential Support Fund.
Typhoon Resistant School Building Program, Educational Facilities Improvement Program funded by the Japanese
Government and the Economic Support Fund (USA).



5
governments (because Government funds came so late) but many lacked sufficient funds
to do the work properly.
10.   Desks. Activities undertaken within this subcomponent were quite satisfactory. In
comparison to the initial target of procuring and distributing 1.5 million desks in three
years (0.5 million per year), the project obtained 2.5 million during the six years of
implementation (0.4 million per year) and a sustained average production of 420,000
school desks per year. The new models (both centrally and regionally procured under
SEEP) are reported by the field offices to be less durable and to require repair more often
than their locally manufactured predecessors, however. Access (from the regional offices)
was the key factor holding back the effective distribution of the desks to the remote
schools-distribution was slightly (16 percent) below the 0.5 million planned average for
the initial three years of the project.
11.   The number of desks produced during the project was, in principle, enough to
overcome the initial backlog estimated at two million desks at appraisal, and to
accommodate the enrollment increase during the project period of 1. 1 million additional
pupils (who require 0.55 millions desks). However, given a desk life of no more than 15
years, at least one third of the initial stock of three million desks had to be replaced in the
meantime, and were not. On this basis, one can consider that the initial desk deficit,
estimated at 40 percent has been reduced by only about half
12.   Textbooks. The original objectives included the production and distribution of 44
million textbooks, 146,000 teacher guides and 2.8 million copies of a range of reference
material and charts. On the production side, the subcomponent target has been achieved.
The Instructional Materials Development Center (IMDC) printed 83 million textbooks and
forwarded 79 million to the Divisions. This represents 180 percent of the planned
quantities and an annual average of 13.8 million textbooks, corresponding to 94 percent
of the annual SEEP average target. However, the objective of increasing the student to
textbook ratio from 2:1 to 1:1 by 1992 has not been achieved. Informed practitioners
believe that the current ratio of students to textbooks is 3:1. The physical quality of the
textbooks was not good (thin paper, weak bindings). Also, a lack of a means of delivery, a
monitoring mechanism, and poor communication between the DECS offices and the
schools contributed to the in-school shortage.
13.   On the production side, 83.6 million textbooks were produced, an annual average
of 13.9 million, very close to the planned annual average of 14.7 million. Considering the
9.9 million average enrollment during the project (1993), an average book-life of 3 years,
and an average number of 6.6 subjects, the project has, on average, produced one
textbook per subject (or one set) for every 1.57 students. This is far above the project
objective of one textbook per subject for every two student. However, as noted above,
availability of textbooks in schools remains a serious problem in all provinces, and
particularly for those far from the capital. In the more remote schools, ratios of one book
for every 5 pupils are commonly reported. Textbook availability in classes is not
monitored by DECS nor tracked by its MIS. DECS staff are aware of this situation, and



6
they attribute it to unresolved storage and school-level distribution issues. The targeting
formula for distribution proposed in the SAR for the SBP was superseded in 1994 by a
new mechanism laid down by law which tended to favor the better-off communities. The
same formula replaced the SAR targeting formula for the distribution of desks.
14.   Equipment.  A total of US$4.6 million was allocated to the procurement of
instructional materials in the elementary schools (globes, maps, science and math kits).
The DECS regional offices were responsible for allocating fixed equipment budgets and
preparing the annual equipment procurement plans based on the guidelines and criteria
issued by the DECS' central office. Information from the regional offices were not
available at the time of the completion mission.
15.   Component Two. In-service Training of Teachers, Principals, and Supervisors.
In-service training is conducted entirely at the regional level. Training results compiled in
Manila show that only 25 percent of the original participation-in-training target was
attained between the project years of CY1990-1993. The reason for the low rate of
achievement was the cut in the DECS budget coupled with delays in the receipt of funds.
The current level of the DECS' training budget for the regions remains unchanged.
16.   The Professional Board Examination for Teachers (PBE7) Validity Studies.
Though its implementation was delayed, this subcomponent has had a significant impact
on the future status of teacher training and teacher licensing by highlighting the issues and
initiating a policy dialogue. In 1995, GoP issued Law No. 7836 to strengthen the
regulation and supervision of the practice of teaching in the Philippines. The law
prescribes a licensure examination. In addition, phase I of the PBET study for 1991-1993
moved the Commission of Higher Education (CHED) to formulate a set of criteria for the
selection of the Centers of Excellence for Teacher Education from among existing teacher
education institutions. Validated items of PBET which were identified by the study were
used to form the core of the Professional Education section of the new Licensure
Examination for Teachers (LET) under the Professional Regulatory Commission. A
second phase of the study is currently being completed covering 1994-1996 with a view to
identifying consistently poor performing and high performing schools.
17.    Component Three.   The Drop-out Intervention Program  (DIP).   This
subcomponent has been successfully completed and the DIP activities are being expanded
under the DECS budget to address drop-out, particularly within the schools in
economically depressed communities. A pilot study on three models of drop-out
prevention was conducted in 30 schools from five regions. The models include: (i) the use
of materials developed under PRODED, (ii) a school-feeding program, and (iii) a parent-
teacher partnership program. During the start-up period in 1990, the Bank's Human
Development Department provided technical assistance for both DIP and the Household
and School Matching Survey-HSMS II (a school-based survey to identify demographic
and socio-economic background data for elementary schools). An annual average of P2.4
million was released over the original life of the project between 1990-1994 and the pilot
program was expanded to a total of 50 schools. Government appropriations have



7
increased to P2.6 million a year to cover approximately 26,000 students including 45 new
schools included in the Social Reform Agenda (SRA) for a National Breakfast Program
targeting grade one students. DIP is further expanding through the financial support of the
mayors for the school-feeding program and local funds for multi-grade materials.
18.   Literacy. The activities of this sub-component consisted mainly of the expansion
of the Magbasa Kita ('Let Us Read'), a phono-syllabic method of first-level literacy
training. The subcomponent had some major successes during 1990-1993, and it was
adopted as a national program in 1991. The subcomponent fully achieved its objectives
between 1990-1993. During those project years, both the number of classes and the
enrollment went up about fivefold, to average 6,000 classes annually and 130,000 students
per year. An ADB-assisted nonformal education project (effective 1994) de facto took
over the activities of this sub-component.
19.   Component Four. Student Assessment System (SAS). The achievements and
impacts of this subcomponent are yet to be seen. The Bank provided technical assistance
toward the development of tests in five academic subjects for grades 2, 4, and 6 to collect
descriptive data on student performance. Item writing commenced in 1991 but delays in
budget releases, a reordering of priorities, and a difficulty in assembling a National
Advisory Board delayed the completion of the subcomponent. To date, the National
Advisory Board has been appointed and studies have been initiated; they are scheduled to
be completed on or around March 31, 1997.
20.   MIS. This sub-component has been adequately achieved. A computer-operated
educational planning model was completed under SEEP. Although these were supposed to
be used for student enrollment projections, teacher information, and budgeting, they have
yet to be utilized by DECS.
21.  Information Dissemination (Service Manuals).  This sub-component was not
successful. Although no budget was appropriated, the Office of Technical Service under
the Office of the Secretary drafted a service manual defining personnel action, elementary
education, secondary education, administrative discipline, property rules and regulations
for school building and grounds, physical facilities and management. The work was not
finalized due to a lack of funds. Currently there is no budget allocation and no plans to
finish the work.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Implementation Experience
22.   The SEEP loan was closed on June 30, 1996. The total project cost (Table 7) was
estimated at appraisal to be US$410 million equivalent with the Government contributing
US$210 million equivalent. The project was designed to disburse the Bank-financed
US$200 million in three years (between 1990-1993). Two months before the closing date
of December 31, 1993, the project had disbursed only US$50 million (67 percent of



8
estimated amount). The loan was extended until September 31, 1994 and an additional
US$75 million was disbursed, in part because of tighter supervision. As a result of an
OECF offer of parallel finance (in 1994) of US$145 million, the Bank agreed to extend the
closing date for the second time to December 31, 1995; US$25 million was canceled at
that time. Withdrawals had increased to US$129.9 million by November 28, 1995, and a
third extension was granted through June 30, 1996. Disbursement stood at US $160
million at the loan closing in June, 1996. Disbursements against commitments were made
until October 31, 1996. Total Bank disbursements came to US$175 million. The OECF
loan was fully disbursed as initially agreed between GoP, OECF, and the Bank.
23.   The responsibility for overall project implementation rested with DECS, an agency
which took over Bank financed project management from EDPITAF. The project was
characterized by continuous delays in resource allocation, budget releases, and
disbursement lags because of delays in submitting withdrawal applications. These delays
were only partly a result of the recession. The Project Implementation Coordination Unit
(PICU)-agreed upon during negotiations for SEEP- was never actualized because the
Department of Budget and Management (DBM) did not think that SEEP would need
extra management resources beyond a regular annual budget. Had DECS been more
experienced in Bank project management and if the project had not been attempting to
disburse at a fast pace, DBM's assessment would have been sound. Implementation
bogged down because of insufficient intra- and inter- agency coordination and
communication as illustrated by the lack of coordination between DECS and the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), or DECS' inability to collect
statements of expenditure (SOEs) from its own Regional Offices and to supervise and
monitor whether or not the project inputs were reaching the target communities and
schools. In 1994, the Bank advised the Borrower to create an informal project monitoring
group to help overcome these problems. Participants in the advisory group were the
Coordinating Council for the Philippines Assistance (CCPAP), an implementation unit of
the National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) and the Resident Mission. This
group helped to improve disbursement in the subsequent years of the project.
24.   The procurement required to meet the project's needs was carried out as planned
and adequately in conformity with Bank guidelines. There were two instances where the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines were not followed and withdrawals were withheld. The
first instance occurred early in the project and, due to a misunderstanding, paper was
procured by LCB rather than ICB. The second instance in 1995 was associated with
DPWH procuring prefabricated school buildings by giving all bidders parts of the contract.
The school building program was carried out initially by DECS and later by the DPWH.
The printing and distribution of textbooks were procured centrally and the procurement of
desks was carried out mostly by the DECS Regional Offices. Training and studies were
conducted in-house and by consultants.
25.   The expected positive impact of the project inputs on school achievement was not
achieved. Despite the fact that physical targets were achieved, educational quality
improvement must be said to be negligible. The persistent classroom shortage, combined



9
improvement must be said to be negligible. The persistent classroom shortage, combined
with the deteriorated state of the existing facilities due to inadequate maintenance, was
exacerbated by the persisting deficit of desks and the inadequate distribution of textbooks.
During the project period, the completion rate (percentage of students that complete all
six grades of elementary school) remained globally almost unchanged, and regional
disparities were not overcome.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.   Soon after implementation commenced, the project risks identified in the SAR
became realities. There were major delays in the release of counterpart funds, and
fluctuations in the budget allocations that had been agreed upon. There were also two
major changes in DECS management during the project. Two changes in Education
Ministers led to periods of adjustment. Increases in personnel costs (teacher salaries were
increased) resulted in a decrease of funds that could have been used for capital
expenditures, SEEP's most important component. The DBM determined that the project
management unit for SEEP (which was discussed during negotiations and mentioned in
the SAR) would not be funded because the project was "only budget support" and
therefore would have no activities that were significantly different from the normal work
of DECS. Subsequently, the responsibility for carrying out the school building program
was moved from the DPWH to DECS (in 1991), causing most of DECS staff and
institutional resources to concentrate on the school building program. An additional
complicating factor was that natural disasters devastated project sites. First, a major
earthquake caused widespread destruction, and related landslides blocked road access and
slowed construction. Months later the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo buried villages and fields
under a heavy cover of ash. Lastly, a financially important market for Filipino labor dried
up due to the out-break of the Gulf War. As a result of the above, economic conditions
worsened nation-wide.
D. Project Sustainability
27.   In view of the clear national priority now given to improving the quality of
elementary education, there is little doubt that activities conducted under SEEP will be
continued into the foreseeable future. The nature of the project was primarily budget
assistance and the activities supported by the loan were the construction of classrooms,
purchase of desks, textbooks, and equipment. Since these are standard items/annual
expenditures in the DECS budget, the sustainability of these subcomponents is not
dependent on external financing. With the improvement of the economy, higher budget
appropriations of these line items can be expected. Therefore there is a good reason to
have confidence in the sustainability of the project.
28.   The other three components totaling $15 million-financing studies in teacher and
administrator performance, drop-out, student assessment and the development of MIS and
information distribution-were funded by the Government. Interviews with respective
officials of DECS indicate that each of the activities either already feeds into on-going



10
activities or has the potential to feed into relevant programs. An annual P2.6 million are
maintained in the budget of the Director of Bureau of Elementary Education (BEE) to be
spent on drop-out prevention. The studies under SEEP have already been expanded into 6
more provinces and drop-out measures continue to be funded. MIS is a $10 million
component under the Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP) signed in December
1996. Provided that they are given adequate and sustained attention, the lessons from the
SEEP experience should live in DECS' institutional memory, and motivate it to champion
the pedagogical changes under TEEP. The same can be said about PBET studies which
have led the way for the LET, a professional licensure testing program to be initiated in
1997, and the new Student Assessment Studies (SAS) tests that will be forthcoming from
the SAS studies under SEEP. The budgetary implications of the changes brought about by
SEEP appear to be affordable and they are likely to be sustained. Additionally, the Bank
has received assurances that the GoP is committed to providing adequate funding to the
sub-sector (as indicated in the sub-sectoral memorandum of policy prepared by the DECS
and adopted by the GOP in September, 1996).
E. Bank Performance
29.   Overall Bank performance in preparation and supervision was satisfactory. Project
identification and subsequent preparation correctly focused on improving teaching and
learning conditions by provision of basic inputs, improving teacher and school
administrator skills and DECS managerial capacities. More attention could have been
given to the links between what the Bank agreed to fund and the project objectives.
Supervision missions were regularly carried out, on average twice a year, and included a
completion mission. Instead of a mid-term review, Bank staff concentrated on working
out the details of the first loan extension with GoP and OECF. Staff continuity was
acceptable; however, after restructuring the missions concentrated on physical works
(building and printing). More consideration should have been given to the utility and
practicality of the buildings, desks, textbooks, and equipment inputs in addition to
focusing on the achievement of numerical targets.
F. Borrower Performance
30.   The Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory. Implementation delays
were caused by a shortage of funds-a result of the recession. Project implementation and
coordination was placed under a committee of two persons (not funded by the project, and
who had full-time responsibilities elsewhere). Even with the best of intentions, this group
could not have performed the task of a permanent coordination unit. While many routine
activities were creditably done, management and coordination were consistently weak.
Presentation of SOEs was almost always late and these documents were usually brought
to Manila as a result of special field missions sent by DECS at the request of the Bank
supervision missions. Government complied with most loan covenants, albeit with delay in
many instances. The ones not complied with are being addressed under the follow-up
operation. The sustainability of the project's institutional development activities are
doubtful, in part because of a lack of Borrower ownership.



11
G. Assessment of Outcome
31.   The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Important physical objectives were
met. Positive aspects of the project are: (i) the Borrower is considerably better off with the
classrooms built and rehabilitated by the project than without them; (ii) textbooks and
teaching materials, which are essential to classroom functioning, were produced, and most
were delivered; and (iii) there will be important impacts in the future from the Drop-out
Intervention Program, the SAS, and the PBET. Little positive outcome is immediately
evident with respect to the main objectives of increasing quality education through the
provision of inputs, improving educational staff performance and DECS managerial
capacities. Planning capacities remain weak, statistical processing is slow and
cumbersome, and the results of educational policy analysis are sometimes of questionable
reliability. A significant number of students still do not have textbooks, and a positive
impact of in-service teacher training on the effectiveness of teachers is not apparent.
However, without the project, the elementary system would have suffered a deterioration
in educational quality due to the sharp decline in resource availability. The project
succeeded in maintaining the system and in laying the foundations for a new Bank assisted
project, TEEP, which should lead to quality improvements in education.
H. Future Operation
32.   DECS will continue the SBP (including new school construction, classroom
rehabilitation, and renovations) as well as the development and procurement of teaching
materials and school equipment. Thus the activities which represent the bulk of the SEEP
loan are being sustained as part of the normal DECS budget for elementary education.
The findings of the PBET studies have initiated a healthy reflection process in the CHED
concerning pre-service training, and policy changes in the DECS concerning the poor
quality of some of the existing teachers in relation to in-service training. The Bank's
follow-on project, TEEP, will strengthen and revitalize in-service training in 26 resource-
poor provinces. The national literacy program, Magbasa Kita (developed with Bank
assistance), has continued to develop and expand in several directions, partly with its own
funding. The initiation of the Literacy cum Livelihood Program is a new intervention
which has been developed for Magbasa Kita graduates. A second related development is
that the Asian Development Bank assisted Non-formal Education Project initiated in July,
1994, will continue to build on the initiatives of SEEP. The activities of the DIP,
developed through Bank assistance and piloted under SEEP, have proven successful and
are to be expanded under the DECS annual budget. With regard to strengthening the
planning and management in DECS, the MIS will be further improved under TEEP, thus
improving DECS' decision-making capacity for educational planning.
I. Key Lessons Learned
33.   Ensure that project components directly serve the project objectives. For all the
emphasis given in the loan's objectives to the quality of elementary education, SEEP



12
project cost was allocated to the infrastructure component and the annual DECS budget
for classrooms, desks, textbooks, and equipment during CY1991-1993. In contrast, 4
percent of project costs went to cover the three components that address issues of school
efficiency, quality, and equity. Involved Bank staff noted that because the proceeds from
the Bank loan were not put into the education quality improvement components (teacher
training, national achievement tests and pilot drop-out interventions) supervision missions
were not inclined to become involved with those components that had a more direct
correspondence with the improvement of student learning and achievement. More
attention to the distribution of the civil works and infrastructure would have led to a better
educational impact. However, an infrastructure-heavy design was reasonable given the
economic difficulties, the urgent need for efficacious disbursement, and the importance of
providing adequate elementary education facilities to as many children as possible.
34.   Sharing supervision responsibilities between Washington and the Resident
Mission can be efficient and effective. During the project, staff from the Resident Mission
and Headquarters participated in all missions. Several useful studies were produced
because of good Washington and field collaboration and also because access to key
information was shared. For example, the pilot tests for the DIP and PBET studies that
helped identify the next steps for drop-out intervention and teacher licensing were
developed in this manner. For the future, the development of a supervision management
system within DECS would broaden the pool of shared information resources, lead to
more collegial relationships between Bank and DECS staff and reinforce the Borrower's
self-evaluation capacity.
35.   Management information, coordination mechanisms and financial accounting
systems must be operational at loan effectiveness. During the implementation of SEEP the
lack of a fully functional MIS compromised DECS' ability to monitor ongoing activities,
execute action plans, and plan supervision missions. TEEP, the follow-up project, has
taken this lesson into account. It has developed a stand-alone project management unit
and detailed implementation guidelines including ones for the accounting systems.
36.   Ongoing monitoring and evaluation is especially important in education sector
projects. Unfortunately, despite the Bank's emphasis (recorded in project documents and
aide memoires) on monitoring and evaluation down to the school-level, budgets and
mechanisms for these activities were not forthcoming throughout the life of the project.
Large investments were made through SEEP on the procurement of materials and
equipment. With no monitoring or evaluation of what was happening in the schools, it was
hard to know what the developmental impact of project-funded activities has been at the
school level. In some cases information does not exist to show that the inputs even
reached the targeted schools, much less that they were able to improve the quality of
teaching and learning.



13
PART HI: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro Policies                                                                       x
Sector Policies                                    x
Financial Objectives                                x
Institutional Development                          x
Physical Objectives                x
Poverty Reduction                                                   x
Gender Issues                                                                       x
Other Social Objectives                                                             x
Environmental Objectives                                                             x
Public Sector Management                           x
Private Sector Development                                                           x
Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability              x
Highly       Satisfactory      Deficient         Highly
Satisfactory                                   Unsatisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                     x
Preparation Assistance             x
Appraisal                                          x
Supervision                                        x
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                        x
Implementation                                     x
Covenant Compliance                                                 x
Operation                                          x
E. Assessment of Outcome
Infrastructure and materials       x
Teacher/administrator                              x
performance
Expanding Basic Education                          x
Planning and Management                            x



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit Titles                         Purpose                         Year of         Status
|  _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _    Approval       _
Preceding Operations                                                                                   l
Sector Program for       To support GoP's Ten-year Program for a three year
Decentralized Elementary  time-slice  between  1982-1985. Inputs  included
Education (PRODED)       curriculum reform, textbooks and teaching materials,  1981      Closed
(Loan 2030-PH)           26 warehouses for textbooks, basic furniture for
schools, teacher training, 13 regional training centers
for teacher teaching, 52 one-year school building
programs in 13 regions, and institutional capacity
building for the DECS.
Vocational Training      To strengthen the infrastructure of the national     1982       Closed
Project (Loan 2200-PH)    industrial training system.
Subsequent Operations                                                                                 l
Third Elementary         To assist in building the institutional capacity of             Waiting
Education Project        DECS to manage the change process associated with               effectiveness
TEEP  and  to improve  learning  achievements,
completion rates, and access to quality elementary
education in 26 of the poorer provinces, especially in
their most disadvantaged communities.
Early Childhood          To assist in strengthening the strategic framework for          Pre-appraisal
Development Project      addressing inequities, develop cost-effective delivery
mechanisms, and mobilize resources for targeting
interventions in health, nutrition and cognitive
development for  the young children from  poor
families, the most vulnerable and highest pay-off
group.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification (FEPS)                                  09-08-1989
Preparation                                            03-14-1989
Appraisal                                              10-11-1989
Negotiations                                           05-09-1990
Board Presentation             06-26-1990              07-03-1990
Signing                                                07-09-1990
Effectiveness                                          08-30-1990
Project completion             12-31-1993              06-30-1996
Loan Closing                   12-31-1993              06-30-1996



16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal year
_____________________ 1991       1992    1993       1994      1995      1996    1997
Appraisal estimates           74.8       150.0    192.0   200.0      -         -       -
Actual                        17.2      46.1      68.9     93.7       113.0    160.5   175.0
Actual as % of estimates      23.1%     30.7%    35.8%    46.8%      -         -       -
Date of final disbursement                                                             10-31-1996
Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
200                     0  0
18                                            175
1991  199
(Fisca Yeas)
140
120            _
loci                  ~ ~~~~~~112.97
100                 ~~~963.74
80   74.8    K68.9
60
4.13
410 
-4- Estimate
20 
00                                                      -Actual
1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997
(Fiscal Years)



17
Table 5/6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Project Objective: To increase equity, efficiency and quality in elementary education
through budget assistance to the DECS Subsector Investment Program and Action Plan.
Key Implementation Indicators                       Estimated                               Actual
in SAR/President's Report                                                                                         l
Component I Increasing the
Provision of Educational
Infrastructure and Material          Classroom                       26,500    Classroom Construction    49,600
Classroom Replacement           9,800    Replacement and Rehab.   32,500
School Building Program           Classroom Rehabilitation       36,400    New Workshops             2,994
Construction new workshops      4,300    Rehabilitation of workshops 2,468
Rehabilitation of workshops      5,100   Toilets                   4,288
Construction of toilets          2,800
new school desks      2.52 mill.
Desks                              Produce new school desks      1.5 mill.                         (6 years)
Instructional materials           Develop, produce, and distribute:
Textbooks                   44 mill.   Textbooks            83.6 mill.
Teacher's Guides             146,000                         (6 years)
Instructional materials & charts 2.8 mill.     Includes teachers' guides
Raise student-textbook ratio from 2:1 in  The official student-textbook ratio is
1990 to 1:1 in 1992.                   reported as 3:1 in 1996
Equipment
Evidence of maps, wall charts, globes
Procure equipment     (no target in SAR)  purchased by the project in the schools,
but overall numbers are not available
2. Improving Teacher and             Regional training materials produced      Materials produced
Administrator Performance                FY 1991           124,000(modules)       FY 1991        4,757 (modules)
FY 1992                   175,000       FY 1992                  3,832
In-service Training                  FY 1993-                   224,000       FY 1993                 5,792
Total number of training sessions
FY 1991:122; FY 1992: 106
FY 1993: 111
Teachers trained                         Teachers trained
FY '91                    100,000       FY '91: 8,309; FY '92: 23,855
FY '92                    150,000       FY '93: 52,660
FY'93                    200,000
Head-teachers trained
Head teachers trained per year    19,000    FY '91: 5,342; FY '92: 7,694
FY '93: 7,028
Supervisors trained per year   5,000     Supervisors trained
FY '91: 5,342; FY '2: 7,694
FY '93: 7,028
Monitor and Evaluate training            M&E of training conducted but no data
3 studies completed:                     All 3 studies completed



18
3. Expanding Basic Education          24 pilot schools (FY'90) equipped with:    FY'90               24 pilot schools
Planned interventions:                    FY'95               50 pilot schools
Introduction of Dropout Prevention     I. multi-level materials, trained         FY'96            45 new SRA schools
Measure                                 implementors and 14 staff weeks of local    Actual interventions:
expert assistance,                      I.multi-level materials,
2. school feeding program, and            2.school feeding program,
3. non-formal summer pre-school program.  3.parent teacher partnership programs.
Evaluation of Educational Outcome      A study on effects of school and non-school    Study completed.
factors on school retention completed
Literacy Classes Initiated
Expansion of Literacy Training        New learning materials translated and                FY'91            6,849
printed,                                             FY'92            6650
FY'93           6320
Teachers trained for new materials, 
,       ~~Number of graduates
Literacy classes initiated,                         FY'91            54,154
FY'92          110,840
Classes monitored and evaluated,                    FY'93           129,977
Post-literacy activities initiated        The Literacy cum Livelihood Program
was developed as post-literacy activity
4. Strengthening Planning and
Management                            A national assessment system established:  National assessment system not ready.
1. New computer equipment and software    1. Three new terminals with software.
Elementary Student Assessment         2. Local staff training  (180 staff months)  2. Training conducted but no data
3. Local/foreign experts  (198 staff months)  3. Training conducted but no data
MIS improved by financing:                FY'96   (personnel data sheet updates
1. New computer equipment and software              started on the MIS)
Management Information System         2. Central network and regional links      1. Computers installed
installed and maintained                  2. Links installed to selected regional
3. Local experts       (170 staff months)  areas
4. Local training       (70 staff months)  3. Training       (30 staff months)
3 studies completed on:                   Studies completed
Planning and Budgeting Methods         I. Standardized enrollment projection,    Three computer models completed
2. Unit cost calculations, and            Models are not yet in use
3. Budget inflation estimates.
Service manuals in draft,
Distribution system upgraded by financing:    Expert services not funded from project
Distribution System for Organizational    1. New policy book with service manuals  due to no budget allocation or release
Information                           2. Local expert services     (I5 months)
3. Workshops for dissemination



19
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Component                          Study                            Status
1.  Review of Pre-Service      Study quality and relevance of selected pre-   Completed
Training and Certification   service elementary teacher training  (document with Asia File)
programs;
Validity of the Professional Board             Completed
Examination for Teachers;              (document with Asia File)
2.  Expanding Basic Education  Evaluation of non-school factors affecting     Completed
student achievement and survival;      (document with Asia File)
Evaluation of the drop-out intervention pilot  Completed
programs;                              (document with Asia File)
3.  Evaluation of Educational    Study to determine the relative effects of  Expected to be completed
Outcomes                  school and non-school factors on the    around March, 1997
interrelated educational outcomes of student
attendance, achievement and retention.



20
Table 8a: Project Costs
(US $million)
Category                   Appraisal Estimates            Actual/Latest Estimates
1990-1992                       1990-1997
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign      Total
I.Civil works                  203.8     50.9      254.7          -       -       510.0
2.Desks                         26.8      4.7       31.6          -       -        23.8
3.Textbook                      11.4      2.0        13.4         -       -
printing/distribution
4.Textbook paper                 8.3     27.9        36.2         -       -
5.Equipment                      0.4      3.8         4.2         -       -
Subtotal 4. and 5.               8.7     31.7       40.4          -       -          0.8
6.Local Training                 6.5       1.1        7.6         -       -
7.Miscellaneous                  3.4      0.6         4.0         -       -
8.Local experts                  0.5      0.1         0.6         -       -
9.Foreign experts                0.0      0.1         0.1         -       -
Total Base Costs       261.2      91.3      352.5          -       -
10. Physical Contingencies       8.1      2.8        11.0         -       -
11. Price Contingencies         38.4       8.1       46.5
Total Project Cost      307.7     102.3      410.3          -               534.6 (1\a,b)
la\ Total actual is greater than estimated due in part to the OECF loan granted after
appraisal of the World Bank loan.
lb\ Government  accounting  was  not  able  to  provide  actual  expenditures  by
implementation category because of the decentralized expenditure procedures.
Table 8b: Project Financing
(US$ millions)
Ap raisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Expenditure Estimates
Local Costs   Foreign    Total    Local Costs  Foreign Costs   Total
Costs
IBRD                   107.7        92.3       200.0    102.5         72.5        175.0
Government             200.0        10.0       210.0      NA           NA        214.6
OECF                     0.0        0.0          0.0      NA           NA         145.0
Total           307.7   l   102.3        410.0      NA    |    NA          534.6



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A cost benefit analysis was not undertaken at the time of appraisal and a net
present value or an economic rate of return is not available for comparison.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree    Section   Covenant   Present    Original       Revised             Description of             Comment
-ment               Type       status    fulfillment   fulfillment            Covenant
date         date                                                       I
I    4.401 (a)      I         CP                                Maintains records and accounts   Action being
which reflect project operation  taken under
l_________                                       resources and expenditures      follow-up project
2     4.01(b-i)     I          C                                Have above records and accounts
for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank
(b-ii)    1.9         C      Sept. 30                  Provide a certified copy of the audit
each year                to the Bank no later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal
year.
(b-iii)    I          C                                 Provide  other  information  on
records, accounts and audits as the
l______                                                             Bank may request.
3     4.01 (c)      3                                           For all expenditures from the Loan
which are made by SOE, the
Borrower shall:
(c-i)     3         CP                                 Maintain records with accounts  Better organiza-
tion and regular
(c-ii)    3          CP                                Retain all records of expenditures  update needed
until at least one year after the FY
audit has been received by the
Bank.
(c-iii)    3          C                                 Enable the Bank's representatives
to examine such records
(c-iv)     3          C                                 Ensure that records and accounts
referred to in para (b) are included
in the annual audit which must also
contain an opinion of the auditors
as to the reliability of these records.          l
4     Schedule     10          C       March, each              Conduct an annual review meeting
5 para I                            year                  with Bank in time for the DECS
annual planning and budget review.
para.2      10          C                                Ensure that a minimum equivalent
to 4% be set aside for book delivery
to the schools.
para. 3     10         NC                                Maintain the PICU
l_____   para.4       10          C                                Carry out the Action Plan
Key: C  = Complied with; CP = Complied with partially; CD   Complied with after delay; NC = Not complied with



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
The Borrower complied with the operational and maual statements adequately
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                 Actual
Stage of Project Cycle    Weeks    US$(000)   Weeks   USS(000)   Weeks    USS(000)
Through Appraisal           91.1       168.0     NA         NA           90.2        225.4
(168.0)
13.1                        13.1        31.6     NA         NA           13.1         41.2
(31.6)
Supervision                 90.6       238.3     NA         NA           72.5      .311.40
(250.1)
Completion                   8.1        21.9     NA         NA            4.1          12.5
(9.3)
Total              202.9       459.8    NA         NA          179.9         590.5
Note:_           _  _ Actual________________ in_______ S  r  o  w                    (459.0)
Note: Actual in US$ are shown with travel cost and without travel cost in parenthesis.



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of        Month        No. of   Days in    Specialized Staff    Implementation   Development
Project Cycle       and       Person      Field    Skills Represented        Status         Objectives        Types of
Year          s                                                                          Problems
Through         Feb.  1989        7         19     Ec,Ar
Appraisal       June,  1989       3         16     Ec, Ar, Ed
Appraisal       Oct.   1989       10        17     Ec(TM), Ar, Dis, Ed,                                                   l
Approval        March, 1989      1.5        5      Op SA, E c.
Approval                            ~~~~~~~~Ec, Ar.
Board through
Effectiveness
Supervision     Nov.  1990        6                Ar(TM), Ec,, Ed,                                        *Delay of
SA, RA.                                                funds
*Delay of
activities
March 1991       2          8     Ar, Ed.                       1                I         *
Disbursement
lag * Delay of
July  1991       4         16     Ar, Ec, Ed.                  2                 2         funds
*Management
Feb.  1992       4          -     Ar, Ec, Ed, SA.               2                1         *Managemcnt
*Delay in
audit report
March 1993       4          8     Ar., Op, E c, Ed.             I                          *Lack of data
Nov.  1993        3         8     Ar, Ec, Ed.                   I                I         *Disbursement
*Delay in
audit
Nov.  1994        2         6      Op(TM), Ar.                  S                S         *Quality
impacts
Mini-           March 1995        2                OP, Ar.                      S                S         *Delay of
supervision     June   1995                                                                                funds
Mini-                                                                                                      *Disbursement
supervision     Sept.  1995       3        41      OP, Ar, M.                   S                S
May   1996        2               M, P.                         S                S         Delay of funds
Disbursement
Key: Ar-architect /implementation; Dis-disbursement; Ec-Economist;Ed-Educator; M-management
Op-Operations; P-procurement; RA-research analyst; SA-student assessment; TM-task-manager



25
ApRendix A
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
SECOND ELEMENTARY EDUCATION (SEEP)
Implementation Completion Mission
and
THIRD ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT (TEEP)
Pre-Launch Mission
AIDE-MEMOIRE
November 18, 1996
1     Introduction. In accordance with terms of reference dated October 11, 1996, Mr. Serge
Theunynck (Architect, Implementation Specialist) visited Manila from October 21-31 to assist DECS in
preparing the Guidelines of TEEP. Mr. Theunynck was joined by Mrs. Mari Takahashi Parker (Education
Specialist) to conduct a World Bank Implementation Completion Mission for SEEP during November 1-15
and assist DECS in the preparation of the Government ICR. The TEEP Mission conducted working
sessions with members of the PISU to complete the operational guidelines on: (i) INSET, (ii) SIIF, (iii)
funds, (iv) management, (v) procurement, (vi) MIS/ M&E, (vii) IEC, and (viii) school building program.
Mr. Federico Gimenez (Procurement Advisor, EAIHR) and Ms. Jayshree Balachander (RMP) joined the
Mission for discussions on the textbook component.
2.     The SEEP Mission was met with reports of project activities.  Discussions were held with
respective officials of the DECS, CHED, DPWH, IMDC, DOF, CCPAP, and the CAR regional officials
and divisional officials of Benguet. Field visits to 5 schools and a textbook warehouse were made in Manila
and Benguet. The Mission was joined for several of the meetings by Ms. Flerida Chan (OECF, Project
Officer) and Ms. Cecilia Vales (Resident Mission, Procurement Specialist). Both Missions are grateful for
the cooperation provided by the Government; in particular, for the guidance and support provided by
Undersecretary Erlinda Pefianco, the commitment of PISU members, and the tireless facilitation rendered
by Ms. Ester Dijamco in the context of the numerous SEEP meetings and during field trips. The following
summary highlights the findings of the two Missions. Many of the points were explored with DECS and
other agencies at a wrap-up meeting on November 15, 1996.
3.     The Status of SEEP. The US$200 million SEEP loan was closed on June 30, 1996 and fully
disbursed as scheduled on October 31, 1996. Total disbursements came to US$175 million (US$25 million
was canceled). Audit reports covenrng the loan period through December 1995 have been received. Audit
reports for the period of January, 1996 - June, 1996 remain to be filed in accordance with the Loan
Agreement. The Mission has confirmed that activities included under the various project components are
nearing completion. The Government financed PBET Validity Study (undertaken during CY 1994-1996)
and the Student Assessment Study are still ongoing and are to be completed on or around March 31, 1997.
4.     Preparation for the ICR. In accordance with the Bank procedures, an ICR will be completed
within approximately six months of the Closing Date. As a follow up to the ICR preparation initiated
during the last Bank Mission of May 1996, a guideline for the preparation of the Government's ICR was
reviewed in a meeting with the DECS.



26
Apfpendix A
Page 2 of 6
5.    Schedule to ICR Completion. It was agreed that the Government's ICR would reach the Bank by
the end of November 1996. The Bank will send its draft ICR to the Government in January 1997 (or as
soon as possible) for comment. Comments should be received in Washington no later than two weeks after
the draft arrives in Manila. The final version of the ICR will incorporate the comments received.
6.    The Net Impact of SEEP. SEEP was originally designed as a three year budget support loan to
assist the Government in maintaining improvements in the quality of elementary education. In the face of
the revenue shortfall caused by the 1989-1993 national economic recession, the original project was
scheduled to last three years. Following three extensions, it disbursed over six years. The Mission
compared planned and actual annual physical outputs for the School Building Program (SBP), desks, and
textbooks; reviewed the institutional development impact of the project in the implementing agency and
looked for instances and examples of policy improvement or capacity enhancement which were the result of
studies and training.
(i-a) The School Building Program (SBP). This component substantially achieved its objectives.
The Bank and OECF loans have enabled DECS to finance approximately 47,500 additional
classrooms over the six years of implementation. This is nearly double the number of classrooms
planned for at appraisal. Annually, the target was 8,800 classrooms and the actual number built
averaged 7,900, approximately 90% of target figures. However, because implementation took
longer than anticipated, a greater number of classroom units could be constructed. 4,300 toilets
were built in six years against an original three year target of 2,800.
(i-b) The other SBP inputs led to the replacement of 2,750 classrooms, only 28% of the total
planned and 14% of the average annual target.  The rehabilitation of 32,000 classrooms
corresponds to 88% of the subcomponent objectives and 44% of the planned annual average.
These modest achievements in replacement and rehabilitation explain the ever growing inventory of
schools with a sub-optimal physical environment. Part of the original plan of work on the 'back-
log" has been funded and actualized by the Local Government Units (LGUs). Consequently, the
facilities in less wealthy provinces with poorly funded LGUs deteriorated more than in better-off
provinces. The construction and rehabilitation of about 3,000 multi-purpose buildings represent
70% and 60% of the respective objective or 35% - 30% of the annual average rate of construction
targets.
(ii) Desks.  Activities undertaken within this subcomponent are also quite satisfactory. In
comparison to the initial target of procuring and distributing 1.5 million desks in three years (0.5
million per year), the project obtained 2.5 million during the six years of implementation (0.4
million per year). However, the new models (both centrally and regionally procured under SEEP)
are reported by the field offices to be less durable and require repair more often than the locally
manufactured predecessors. Access to the regional offices has been reported to be the key factor
holding back the effective distribution of the desks to the remote schools.
(iii) Textbooks. On the production side, the target of this subcomponent has been achieved: 83
million textbooks have been printed and 79 million have been forwarded to the Divisions. This
represents 180% of the planned quantities and an annual average of 13.8 million textbooks,
corresponding to 94% of the annual SEEP average target; however, the initial objective of



27
Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
increasing the student to textbook ratio from 2:1 to 1:1 by 1992 has not been achieved. The lack of
a monitoring mechanism does not allow DECS to assess what the schools are receiving. Currently,
the generally accepted ratio of student to textbooks is 3:1. The reasons commonly set out are
related to the less durable physical quality of the textbooks; lack of a means of delivery; and poor
communication between the DECS offices and the schools. The closer schools to the Division are
being supplied better than the farther ones.
(iv) Regarding the distribution of budget allocations, the formula to target distribution proposed in
the SAR for the SBP, a formula based on needs and the level of regional poverty, was replaced in
1994 by a new formula laid down by law.  The new law prescribes budget allocation
proportionally to enrollment (50%) and needs (40%). As a result, the new formula tends to favor
populous areas, and to place the less populated (often rural and poorer) areas at a disadvantage.
Regarding the distribution of desks, the same new formula replaced the SAR formula.
(v! Pre-Service and In-service Training. A study on pre-service teacher training was initiated by
DECS under SEEP and completed by CHED in 1995. CHED plans to utilize the findings of this
study to lay a new course for pre-service teacher training. In-service training is conducted entirely
at the regional level. Training results compiled in Manila show that only 25% of the original
training target was obtained between the project years of CY 1990-1993. The reason for the low
achievement is the cut in the DECS budget appropriations coupled with slow budget releases.
However, this is an underestimation of the actual in-service training conducted because it does not
take into account the training activities financed from other sources such as local funds, the
services of the National Educator's Academy of the Philippines, and funds from intemational
donors. The current level of DECS budget to the regions remain unchanged.
(vi) The Professional Board Examination for Teachers (PBET) Validity Studies.   This
subcomponent, though delayed, has provided significant impact to the future status of teacher
training and teacher licensing by highlighting the issues and initiating a policy dialogue. In 1995,
GOP issued Republic Act No. 7836, an act to strengthen the regulation and supervision of the
practice of teaching in the Philippines and prescribing a licensure examination. In addition, phase I
of the PBET study for 1991-1993 has guided the Commission of Higher Education (CHED) to
formulate a set of criteria for the selection of the Centers of Excellence for Teacher Education from
among existing teacher education institutions (TEI). Validated items of PBET which were
identified by the study were used to form the core of the Professional Education section of the new
Licensure Examination for Teachers (LET) under the Professional Regulating Commission. The
Bank has provided technical assistance to assist in the structuring of the PBET study. The second
phase of the study is being completed for 1994-1996 with a view to identify consistently poor
performing and high performing schools. The findings of the studies have initiated a reflection
process in CHED concerning the issue of ineffective TEIs and in DECS the status of teachers who
continue to fail PBET but are automatically licensed after 10 years of teaching.
(vii) Household and School Matching Survey (HSMS) II and Drop-out Intervention Program
(DIP). These subcomponents have been successfully completed and the DIP activities are being
expanded under the DECS budget. A pilot study on three models of drop-out prevention was
conducted in 30 schools from 5 regions. The models include: (i)the use of multi-level materials
developed under PRODED; (ii)school-feeding program; and (iii) parent-teacher partnership



28
Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
program. During the start-up period, the Bank provided technical assistance for both DIP and
HSMS II (a school-based survey to identify demographic and socio-economic background data for
elementary schools conducted in 1990 under SEEP). An average of P2.4 million per year were
released over the life of the project and between 1990-1994, the pilot program was expanded to a
total of 50 schools. Government appropriations have increased to P2.6 million a year to cover
approximately 26,000 students including 45 new SRA schools for a National Breakfast Program
targeting grade 1 students. DIP is further expanding through the financial support of mayors for
the school-feeding program and local funds for multi-grade materials. Monitoring is conducted by
33 education specialists.
(viii) Literacy. The activities of this sub-component consisted mainly of the expansion of the
Magbasa Kita 'Let Us Read" a phono-syllabic method of first-level literacy training. The
subcomponent was well achieved during 1990-1993 and was adopted as a national program in
1991. The subcomponent successfully achieved its objectives between 1990-1993. During the
project years, both the number of classes and the enrollment went up about five fold, to average
6,000 classes annually and 130,000 students per year. Magbasa Kita has continued to develop and
expand in several directions based on the lessons learned. The first is the initiation of the Literacy
cum Livelihood Program which provides a context based on reality through which Magbasa Kita
graduates can continue literacy training. The second is the ADB assisted Non-formal Education
Project initiated in July, 1994 which focuses on illiterate adults and youths in selected areas.
(ix) Student Assessment System (SAS). The achievement and impact of this subcomponent is yet
to be seen. The Bank provided technical assistance toward the development of tests in five
academic subjects for grades 2, 4, and 6 to collect descriptive data on student performance. Item
writing commenced in 1991 but delay in budget releases, a reordering of priorities, and a difficulty
in assembling a National Advisory Board delayed the completion of the subcomponent. To date,
the National Advisory Board has been appointed and studies have been initiated to be completed on
or around March 31, 1997.
(x) MIS. This sub-component has been adequately achieved. A computer-operated educational
planning model was completed under SEEP to be used for student enrollment projections, teacher
information, and budgeting. During the project, The National Statistics Office (NSO) assisted
DECS in improving the capacity to project student enrollment all the way down to the school level.
The Bank is providing US$4.4 million for MIS under the Third Elementary Education Project to
further improve the decision-making capacity of DECS' MIS for educational planning.
(xi) Service Manuals. This sub-component was not successful. Although no budget was
appropriated Technical Service under the Office of the Secretary drafted a service manual defining
personnel action, elementary education, secondary education, administrative discipline, property
rules and regulations, school building and grounds, physical facilities and management. The work
was not finalized due to complete lack of budget allocation. Currently there are no funds and no
plans to finish the work.
7.    Relevance of the Budget Support. As budget support, the project has partially achieved its
objective. GOP allocated 72% of the project's base cost to the school building program alone, expecting
rapid disbursement. The original plan was to allocate a total of P 6.78 billion by in creasing the allocation



29
Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
incrementally from P 1.33 billion in 1990 to P3.25 billion by the end of the three year project in 1992. The
actual DECS budget released for SBP remained at P 1.1 billion during the original SEEP years of 1990-
92. Combined with long delays in the collection of SOEs, this resulted in a 40% loan disbursement at the
end of three years. Nevertheless, during the loan extension over the next 3 years, the SBP budget release
increased up to P. 3.45 billion in 1994-95. After cancellation of US$25 million in 1995, the loan was fully
disbursed in October 1996.
8.    Management Arrangements of SEEP. SEEP was unable to disburse quickly in spite of the fact
that one of its objectives was budget support. When discussing this matter with DOF and CCPAP, they
attributed the problem to the absence of a Project Implementation Coordination Unit (PICU). During
appraisal, a PICU was planned but never funded and actualized because SEEP was viewed as strictly a
budget support project and should not need extra management resources and PICU operated on an adhoc
basis. This situation caused expensive consequences such as: (i) weakening the project's capacity to
manage, supervise, and monitor; (ii) inability to collect SOEs which slowed disbursement considerably; and
(iii) increasing the cost of the loans.
9.    Summary of Agreements for SEEP.
(i) Audit Report. In accordance with the Loan Agreement Covenants, outstanding audit reports
will be filed with the Bank as soon as possible.
(ii) ICR. The Government's contribution to the ICR will arrive in Washington by the end of
November 1996 and the Bank will forward a draft ICR in January 1997 for comment by the
Government. These will arrive within two weeks of receipt of the draft.
The Third Elementary Education Project (TEEP): Post-negotiation Mission
10.   TEEP Board Conditions. The mission is pleased to note that the last requirements from the
World Bank Board have been fully complied by DECS: The Project Management Advisory Committee
(PIMAC) and the Project Implementation Support Unit (PISU) were created respectively by DECS
Secretary's Orders 74.s.1996, dated 24 October 1996, and 78.s.1996, dated 25 October, 1996. The
Resettlement Framework was approved in a letter dated October 31, 1996 from DECS Undersecretary to
the Bank. In addition, an MOA was signed by DECS and DOF concerning the use of the Municipal
Development Fund (MDF) as a conduit for funding the SBP.
11.    The Status of PISU. Heads of components have been appointed with the exception of Civil-
Works and Procurement. An office space is under rehabilitation to be assigned to the PISU. The Mission
was concerned that the members have still not yet been fully released from their previous assignments.
12.   Project Guidelines. Significant progress has been achieved on the following Guidelines:  (i)
INSET, (ii) SIIF, (iii) Budget and Financial Management, and (iv) Civil works. It was agreed that the draft
Guidelines on INSET and SIIF will be shared with Drs. Jangira and Ward for their comments and then
completed. The Guidelines for Budget and Financial Management as well as Civil works need to
incorporate the recommendations of the Mission and be completed. The other Guidelines are: (i) IEC, (ii)
DEDP, (iii) Project Management, and (iv) Procurement and have been discussed in detail during the
Mission. It was agreed that these Guidelines would be submitted in draft form to the Bank no later than



30
Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
November 30, 1996. These will be reviewed by the Bank and returned to the PISU for finalization. It was
agreed that all Guidelines be submitted for final review by the Bank by December 31, 1996.
13.    Textbooks.  The Mission was joined by Mr. Federico Gimenez. Agreements were reached
concerning the details of the procedures for bidding on paper and the reprints for textbooks to be retro-
financed under TEEP. Bidding documents will be submitted for prior review soon. The invitation to bid
will be placed in the agreed newspaper without further delay.
14.    Recoimnendations for TEEP.
(i) Since the two unappointed positions are crucial to the start-up of TEEP, the Mission
recommends their appointments as soon as possible.
(ii) The Mission recommends that the rehabilitation of the PISU office be started immediately and
the necessary equipment (furniture, computers, fax, and a photocopier) be provided along with an
arrangement for petty cash.
(iii) The Mission recommends that MOAs between DECS and DBM for budget arrangements and
between DECS and DPWH for the SBP be prepared in line with the Guidelines, and submitted to
the Bank for review before the signing.
(iv) The Mission recommends that the PISU share their draft Guidelines with each other to ensure
the consistency of the total set of Guidelines.



31
Annex B
Page 1 of 15
Evaluation
Government of the Philippines
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.1   In 1988, the World Bank conducted a sector review to identify ways to improve
quality, equity and efficiency in the educational system without unduly
increasing the fiscal burden of the Government. The analytical work in the
Sector Report revealed the following major issues in the education sector: (a)
inadequacy of physical inputs for teaching and learning, (b) weaknesses in
teachers' subject mastery and pedagogical skills, (c) lack of strong professional
support from school administrators and supervisors, (d) high dropout rate at the
elementary level,  (e) increasing number of functional illiterates,  and (f)
absence of clear administrative arrangements for sector monitoring and
evaluation.
1.2   The Bank also financed a six-year project for elementary education which was
known as the Program for Decentralized Educational Development (PRODED).
The project's basic objective was to introduce improvements in policy,
management and other sectoral concerns in order to achieve greater efficiency
and effectiveness in the operation and administration of the elementary
education  system.   PRODED  consisted  of sub-projects on curriculum
development, staff development, technical assistance, special studies and
research, instructional materials development and facilities development.
1.3   The Bank's operational program  in the education sector is the continuing
support to the provision of basic education as the necessary foundation of human
resource development.  Using the findings of the Sector Study and the
accomplishments of PRODED as basis of analytical work, the Bank identified
the areas of persistent problems in the elementary education sector which would
need assistance. Thus, a second project for elementary education was proposed
for funding assistance. Project preparation started in 1988, which led to the
detailed design in June 1989 and finally to the appraisal of the project in
October 1989.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
1.4   The objective of the project is to increase equity, efficiency and quality in
elementary education through assistance to the DECS investnent program and
action plan. Specifically, the project aims to:
1.    meet the subsector's requirements for essential physical resources with
emphasis on improving their distribution to educationally and
economically  disadvantaged  areas.   The physical inputs include
classrooms, multi-purpose workshop and toilet facilities, school desks,
textbooks and other instructional materials including teachers' guides and
instructional devices and equipment. The project's physical targets are:
a)    construction of 26,500  new  classrooms to meet enrolment
increments and reduce the existing backlog
b)    replacement of 13,900 severely dilapidated classrooms
c)    rehabilitation of about 36,400 damaged classrooms
d)    construction of 4,300 new workshops



32
Annex B
Page 2 of 15
e)    rehabilitation of 5,100 damaged workshops
f)    construction of 2,800 toilets
g)    procurement of 1.5 million school desks
h)    production and distribution of 44 million textbooks, 146,000
teachers' guide and 2.8 million reference materials and charts
i)    school equipment and instructional aids such as globes, maps,
science and math kits
The allocation of schoolbuilding requirements considered such factors as
enrolment, and classroom shortages while during the middle part of
project implementation, the policy of access and equity was considered
by putting up elementary schools in barangays without elementary
schools and completing incomplete elementary schools. Desk allocation
took into consideration the school's population, the number of
serviceable classroom furniture and the number of existing
buildings/classrooms where the furniture will be housed. For textbooks,
enrolment projections and textbook inventory are the main factors for
computing textbook needs, along with the normal life span of a book.
The project intended to raise the previous textbook-pupil ratio of 1:2 to
1:1 by end of 1992.
2.    improve  the  professional  competence  of  teachers  and  school
administrators through inservice taining programs and the conduct of
three studies on the following:
a)    pre-service elementary teacher -raining programs
b)    the validity of the Professional Board Examination for Teachers
c)    institutional networking for teacher training
3.    expand basic education through the following:
a)    introduction of three drop-out prevention measures on a pilot
basis in schools selected from low income municipalities in six
regions
b)    evaluation of the effects of school and non-school factors on
attendance, achievement and retention
c)    expansion of the literacy training program undertaken by the
Bureau of Nonformal Education of DECS and its field offices
4.    further develop the DECS institutional capacities in planning and
management through:
a)    introduction of an annual assessment program  of elementary
student performance to provide data on achievement
b)    development of an integrated system of data processing, storage
and retrieval and initiate decentralization of information
management to the divisions
c)    conduct of studies to review the methods used in enrolment
projections, calculating unit costs and budget inflation estimates
d)    development of a system for the maintenance and distribution of
organizational information



33
Annex B
Page 3 of 15
1.5   The Bank financed the infrastructure, facilities and instructional materials
components of the project with the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan providing co-financing arrangements in the amount of 20.0
billion Yen (about US $145 million). However, OECF financed only a portion
of the Schoolbuilding Program (SBP). Because of this co-financing scheme, the
potential amount to be disbursed from the Bank loan was considerably reduced.
From 1991 to 1995, the annual average share of OECF financing for the SBP
was 78% while the Bank's share was only 22%.
1.6   Per appraisal estimates, the budgetary requirements to meet project expenditures
for 1990-1992 was about P7.74 billion for the infrastructure and materials
component. However, the approved budgetary appropriation for the same
period was P5.16 billion or a deficiency of P2.58 billion. This deficiency in
budgetary appropriations has affected largely the attainment of program targets
within the three-year period (1990-1992). Moreover, DECS failed to get
necessary level of appropriations after the first year of the project because of the
Gulf War in 1991 and the resultant economy measures set by the government.
1.7   The Bank did not finance any of the various education studies under the project.
For the entire duration of the project, only three components (drop-out
intervention, literacy training and MIS) had specific funding sources in the
DECS appropriations. The budget for the rest of the components had to be
sourced from realignment of funds from other items in the DECS budget. This
action resulted in implementation delays and a re-designing of some aspects of
the affected project components.
EII    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
2.1   DECS Order No. 28, series 1990 provided for the organization of a Project
Advisory Group (PAG) and a Project Implementation Coordinating Unit (PICU)
to coordinate and manage the implementation of the various components of the
project. The PAG is responsible for the formulation of policies relating to the
overall implementation of the project while PICU is responsible for the
coordination of the implementation of the project. The PAG is chaired by the
Secretary of Education and co-chaired by the Undersecretary for Basic
Education.  The members of PAG  are Undersecretary for Finance and
Administration, Assistant Secretary for Planning, Assistant Secretary for Human
Resource Development, Directors/Heads of implementing agencies, the
Regional Director of DECSRO IV, Chief of Financial and Management
Service, representative from the Department of Budget and Management
(DBM), and Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH). PICU
which is responsible for overall project coordination was headed by the
Assistant Secretary for Planning as Project Coordinator and staffed by an
Assistant Project Coordinator and two members each from the Office of
Planning Service (OPS), Financial and Management Service (FMS) and
EDPITAF.



3L
Annex B
Page 4 of 15
2.2   For each of the project component, a project manager was designated to oversee
project implementation.  For the Schoolbuilding Program and desk project
which were implemented by DPWH and DECS field offices, respectively, the
implementation was done by the district engineers in the case of DPWH and the
Division Superintendents for DECS. The Regional Offices rendered monitoring
and supervision functions.  It was only in 1992 when the Financial and
Management Officers were assigned as Project Coordinator in the DECS
Regional Offices. For DPWH, the Fiscal Controllers at the regional office
were given the responsibility of monitoring the submission of expenditure
documentation from its district engineering offices. The DECSRO Finance
Officer and the DPWH Fiscal Controller were responsible in so far as the
documentation of   expenditures was concerned.
2.3   The implementation of the textbook component consisting of the printing and
distribution of textbooks, teachers' manuals and teachers' guides was undertaken
by the Instructional Materials Development Center (formerly Instructional
Materials Corporation).
2.4   The DECS Order provided that the Assistant Project Coordinator and members
from OPS, FMS and EDPITAF will be detailed on full time basis at the PICU
which shall be based at the DECS Central Office, then located at Palacio del
Gobernador in Intramuros, Manila. PICU did not become fully operational
because of the following reasons:
a)    only two staff members from OPS were working on the project but this
was not even on a full time basis since they had other assignments in
their mother unit
b)    one staff from EDPITAF was detailed to the project for six months but
was subsequently recalled by the Executive Director
c)    the Assistant Project Coordinator resigned from DECS after ten months
of the project
d)    there was no available office space for PICU
e)    PICU did not have operating expenses for travel, communication,
supplies, transportation, etc. Expenses were charged against OPS funds,
and
f)    there is no full-time accountant assigned to the project.
LINKAGES AND INTER-AGENCY COORDINATION
2.5   The project maintained continuing linkages with various external government
agencies and organizations. This coordinative linkages was done by the PICU.
The functions of the collaborating agencies were as follows:
-     The Department of Public Works and Highways was responsible for the
civil works component specifically the construction of schoolbuildings.
-     The Commission on Audit (COA) was responsible for the preparation of
the financial audit
-     The Department of Budget and Management was responsible for the
review and release of budgetary appropriations annually
-     The Department of Finance (DOF) provided oversight support



35
Annex B
Page 5 of 15
The National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) monitored
project implementation
The Coordinating  Council of the Philippine Assistance Program
(CCPAP) also monitored project implementation and assisted in
coordinating with other agencies in order to facilitate project activities
The World Bank Resident Mission acted as liaison between DECS and
the World Bank headquarters in Washington D.C. to follow up requests,
communicate with task managers and facilitate the transmittal of project
documents to headquarters.
IMPLEMENTATION PER PROJECT COMPONENT
2.6   Provision of Infrastructure and Materials
2.6.1    Schoolbuilding Program
DPWH implemented the Schoolbuilding Program (SBP) from
1990 to 1995 except in 1991 when DECS took over the
implementation. The Bank and OECF financed the construction of
46,835 new classrooms which is almost double the number of
classrooms planned for during the appraisal stage of the project.
Other SBP outputs are the replacement of 2,722 classrooms which
was only 20% of the planned target and the rehabilitation of 32,560
classrooms which achieved 89 % of the target (based on SAR
estimates). In 1994 and 1995, no classroom replacement project was
undertaken because priority was given to providing new classrooms in
barangays without elementary schools and the completion of
incomplete elementary schools. Most of these sites were given a two-
classroom building.  Other school facilities provided were 2,994
additional multi-purpose workshoDs, 2,468 rehabilitated workshops
and 4,288 toilets.
When DECS implemented the Schoolbuilding Program in 1991,
substantial savings (amounting to P133 million) were realized as a
result of prudent management of allocated budgets. The savings that
DECS was able to generate went into the construction of additional
classrooms, toilets, the installation of lighting and water systems in
the classroom and minor repair work. The implementation of the
program was monitored by local school officials who were called
School Officials Project in Charge (SOPICs). Together with the
regional directors and superintendents, the SOPICs supervised the
construction of the schoolbuildings with technical assistance from an
engineering consultancy firm hired by the DECS.
In 1994, an innovation in the SBP was introduced through the
manufacture of pre-fabricated (demountable) schoolbuildings which
utilized environment-friendly materials predominantly made with
steel/metal.   Although the pre-fabricated schoolbuildings were
envisioned to be completed within a shorter period than the
conventional design, implementation of the Schoolbuilding Program
as a whole took a longer period which extended to two years. Delays



36
Annex B
Page 6 of 15
were attributed to accessibility, site problems, peace and order
problems, requests for realignment to conventional structures and
political interventions in realignments.
New technologies are continually being tested and tried out in the
utilization of materials for classrooms. Among the latest innovations
being tried out are schoolhouses made of bricks and buildings using
plastic roofing, and styrofoam sandwiched with concrete.
2.6.2    Desks
An average of P230 million was allocated yearly for the
procurement of elementary school desks. Compared to the initial
target of 1.5 million desks, the project was able to provide 2.5
million desks or an average of 400,000 per year. Procurement was
done at various administrative levels from central office down to the
division level.  In line with the current thrust of promoting
environrnent friendly technology, new models for classroom furniture
were tested and manufactured. The materials are made of all wood,
all steel, all plastic, all fiberglass or a combination of materials.
Wood-based desks are to be sourced from recycled wood and agro-
waste as well as tree stumps and the plantation tree varieties. ?
with the advent of new designs, preference of end-users is still for the
traditional wooden desks because of its durability, longer life span,
and availability of materials to replace broken parts.
2.6.3    Textbooks
The project was able to print 83.6 million textbooks including
teachers' manuals and teachers' guides.   This represented an
accomplishment of 178% of the targetted quantities and an average of
13.8 million textbooks printed annually. Lnspite of these quantities,
the planned 1:1 textbook-pupil ratio has not been fully achieved
especially in remote schools. A monitoring mechanism should be
devised to ensure that books are received by the recipient schools on
time. Toward this end, the schools should be informed about the
quantities and delivery schedules of specific book tides that they have
been programmed to receive.   An initial step to address the
distribution problem is the computerization of distribution and
monitoring activities. This project has been delayed by the difficulty
in getting accurate and up to date data on enrolment and textbook
receipts from the field.
In June 1995, President Ramos signed into law the Book
Publishing Industry Development Act (RA 8047). The law provides
for the privatization of the textbook program and the subsequent
abolition of the Instructional Materials Development Center.



3 7
Annex B
Page 7 of 15
2.6.4    Equipment
Equipment procured for elementary schools consisted mostly of
office equipment such as typewriters, numeographing machines and
copiers. Instructional equipment was limited to sewing machines,
cassette recorders, overhead projectors and tools for Livelihood
Education.  The bulk of procurement for equipment went to the
division offices which are supervising the public schools. Computers,
fax machines, copiers and typewriters were the most common
purchases.
2.7   Improving Teacher and Administrator Performance
2.7.1   In-service Training-
In-service training programs for teachers and principals are
conducted mostly at the district and division levels while the training
for supervisors is done at the regional and division levels. Training is
generally done on the teaching of the various subject areas along with
instructional management and materials development.   Specific
concerns that focus on the current policies and thrusts of the DECS
and government as a whole are also included in the training
programs. Aside from the field offices, the Bureau of Elementary
Education also conducts special training programs for field personnel.
The National Educators Academy of the Philippines (NEAP) also
conducts training programs for school personnel on a regular basis.
There is no specific line item in the budget that is allocated for
inservice training. Funds are taken from the regional and division
budget for Maintenance and other Operating Expenses.
2.7.2    Pre-service Teacher Training
The Bureau of Higher Education which was then a part of DECS,
together with the Philippine Association for Teacher Education
(PAFTE) conducted a study on pre-service programs for teachers
during the school year 1991-1992. The study covered 309 elementary
teacher training institutions representing 80% of the actual number at
survey time.  The research project was designed to examine the
quality of selected elementary teacher training programs by
investigating the deliberate educational structures, contexts, content,
instructional practices and resources designed to foster teaching-
learning.
The findings of the study showed that pre-service elementary
teacher training (PETT) institutions are heavily concentrated in Luzon
due to population density. Majority of the PETT schools comply
with the DECS minimum requirements for teacher education
programs.  Faculty qualification requirements are not fully met
because only 52% of the faculty surveyed possessed at least a
Master's degree.  Most PETT schools offer majors or fields of
specialization which requires little or no equipment/facilities like



3
Annex B
Page 8 of 15
Communication Arts, Mathematics and Social Studies. Sciences are
the least offered majors because of the inadequacy in laboratory
equipment in most PETT schools. In terms of instructional practices,
the study revealed that teaching methods used do not develop
analytical and critical thinking while student teaching content does not
include the development of research skills. The average NCEE rating
obtained by students entering the Bachelor of Education (BEEd.)
course is higher than the cut-off score set for teacher education.
However, the average NCEE rating obtained is not very high, which
is an indication that high school graduates entering the prograam were
not the 'cream of the crop."
The study came up with a set of recommendations related to
directions for upgrading the quality and relevance of elementary
teacher training programs, standards for the establishment of a system
for institutional evaluation and guidelines for the consolidation and/or
elimination of poor quality programs.
2.7.3    Validity of the Professional Board Examination for Teachers (PBET)
This study was conducted by the National Educational- T-eing
and Research Center (NETRC) in cooperation with Dr. Milagros R.
The of the University of the Philippines College of Education. The
purpose of the study was to establish the curricular and concurrent
validity of the PBET in order to prove that the examination is a valid
measure of teacher quality. The first phase of the study has been
completed. This involved a review of the PBET administered in
1990, 1991 and 1992. Data gathered from the study was used as one
of the criteria in the final selection of the Centers of Excellence for
Teacher Education by the Commission on Higher Education.
Validated test items were used to form the core of the Professional
Education portion of the Licensure Examination for Teachers (LET)
which is now administered by the Professional Regulations
Commission.
A second phase of the study is on-going which will cover a
continuing analysis of the 1994, 1995 and 1996 PBET in order to
identify consistently poor performing and high performing teacher
training institutions.
2.8   Expanding Basic Education
2.8.1    Dropout Intervention Program (DIP)
The program was conducted by the Bureau of Elementary
Education in thirty pilot elementary schools from Regions IV, V, VI,
VIII and XII. The schools were selected on the basis of an agreed
criteria, one of which was a high dropout rate.  Four types of
intervention programs were introduced which were: a) multi-level
materials (MLM)-assisted insmjction, b) MLM-assisted instruction
with parent-teacher partnership (PTP), c) school feeding (SF) and



3)
Annex B
Page 9 of 15
d) SF with PTP. The pilot study sought to determine the relative
influence of the four intervention programs on the drop-out rate,
absenteeism rate, school participation rate and achievement level of
Grades I to VI pupils.
The results of the study revealed that school feeding and school
feeding with parent-teacher partnership have the most influence in
reducing absenteeism rate and drop-out rate.       As the child
progresses to the higher grades, the use of multi-level materials with
PTP are the most effective because promotion to the next grade level
is based on academic achievement. There is no single intervention
which can address the problems of absenteeism, drop-ut and
improving achievement level all at the same time. However, should
it become necessairy to make a choice from among the four
intervention programs, considering the limited government resources
to sustain feeding program, the most logical choice would be a
strengthened PTP program combined with MLMs. Teachers and
parents who participated in the program agreed that the support of the
community and the barangay officials contributed to the success of
DIP.
2.8.2    Evaluaton of Educaional Outcomes or Household and School
Marching Survey 11 (HSMS 1I)
Round II of HSMS was undertaken by the Bureau of Elementary
Education from 1990 to 1992. The studv covered seven regions (I,
IV, V, VI, VIII, XII and NCR) with 126 schools as samples. The
selection was intended to reflect diversitv in schooling condition. The
schools included as samples in the DIP were also covered in HSMS
II. The main purpose of the study was to determine the relationships
of home, school and communitv factors to achievement.   An
additional purpose was to further examine the causes of dropping out.
The study confirmed the findings of earlier studies that the
pupils' socio-economic characteristics play a significant influence on
achievement.  School factors that emerged as potent predictors of
achievement include the amount of time spent by the administrator in
supervision, the presence of other school services such as in-school
health service, remedial instruction and pre-school education.
Community factors include proximity of the school to a commercial
center and the level of economic development of the school
community.
The second part of the study dwelt on the determinants of
absenteeism and dropping-out. These are also grouped into school
and non-school factors. The school variables could be effectively
addressed by the educational system while the other variables can be
addressed through non-educational policies and programs.



Annex B
Page 10 of 15
2.8.3    Expansion of Literacy Training
The activities under this component consisted mainly of the
expansion of the Magbassa Kita (Let us Read) which was launched
initially in 1978 as a pilot project for Muslim women in the provinces
of Sulu and Tawi-Tawi. The program was gradually expanded to
cover all regions of the country. The number of beneficiaries of this
program reached 493,915 through 29,908 classes organized from
1990 to 1995.
Currently, the Bureau of Non-formal Education is working its
way towards the use of community and needs based literacy materials.
The Bureau is also in the process of undertaking ethnographic studies
of representative communities such as fishing, mining, urban slums,
refugee centers, tribal groups, etc. These studies will become the
basis for the development of prototype literacy materials addressing
the needs of specific clientele.
The literacy training program was expanded to include training
on livelihood skills development. This scheme was utilized to attract
more clientele to the program. A new project was launched in 1994
which caters to illiterate adults and school dropouts in disadvantaged
areas. This is the Nonformal Education Project funded through a
loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The project is part
of the Department's commitment to address the twin problems of
poverty and illiteracy.
2.9   Strengthening Planning and Management
2.9.1    Student Assessment System (SAS)
This component has been delayed in implementation because of
late budget release, and the difficulty in convening the members of
the National Advisory Board. The SAS project is intended to develop
test instruments to measure pupil performance in selected subjects and
grade levels (Science, Mathematics, English, Civics and Culture and
Filipino for Grades II, IV and VI). To date, an item writing
workshop has been completed for the tests in these five subject areas.
The printing of the tryout tests is on-going for administration in 1997.
The project has been overtaken by other more important activities of
the NETRC such as the administration of a National Achievement
Test for Grade VI pupils in 1992 and the annual National Elementary
Achievement Test (NEAT) beginning SY 1993-1994 and the National
Secondary Assessment Test (NSAT) beginning SY 1994-1995.



41
Annex B
Page 1 of 15
Evaluation
Government of the Philippines
2.9.2 Management Information System
The objectives for this component have been adequately
achieved.   The accomplishments  include the following:   a)
development  of  three  databases  on  educational  statistics,
schoolbuilding information and personnel information; b) installation
of 3 databases at the central office, regional offices and school
division offices of the pilot region;  c) training of personnel and
executives;   d) acquisition  of additional computer units for
distribution to regional and selected division offices; e) conduct of an
annual search for outstanding Educational Management Information
System (EMIS) from the school to national level; and f) development
of a computer application program to process educational data
gathered through the unified data gathering system.
Further improvement of this component will be undertaken
through the Third Elementary Education Project.
2.9.3 Planning and Budgeting Studies
Two studies were completed which would be useful in improving
the quality of data used for planning and budgeting purposes. The
first study came up with a standard methodology on enrolment
projection while the second is a computer simulation model to
determine  student  flow,  teacher  demand,  phvsical  facilities
requirement, education cost and budget. Training workshops were
conducted for central and regional office personnel.
2.9.4 Information Distribution System
This component was not completed because of lack of funds and
turn-over of staff assigned to the project. A draft service manual has
been prepared in the areas of personnel action, elementary education,
secondary education, administrative discipline, property rules and
regulations,  schoolbuildings,  grounds  and  physical  facilities
management and parents teachers associations. Currently, there are
no plans to ftmish this project.
BANK'S PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT
2.10  The Bank conducted supervision missions on an average of two per year from
1991 to 1993 and on an annual basis towards the end of the project. The
activities of the mission were focused on the progress of project implementation
particularly loan disbursements. During the missions, problems were identified
together with the appropriate action recommendations to resolve such issues.



42
Annex B
Page 12 of 15
2.11  The Bank provided technical assistance in several project components such as
DIP, HSMS II, Pre-Service Teacher Training, PBET Studies, MIS and SAS.
The Bank review mission was composed of educators, economists, education
information specialist, student assessment specialist, architects and management
specialist. Supervision of these components stopped in 1994 when the mission's
visits were confined mostly to the financial performance of the Project.
2.12  Two disbursement missions came during the first two years of project
implementation. It was observed that these missions did not visit the field
offices where the actual disbursements of funds were made. Thus, they were
not able to get first hand information on how funds were actually spent and how
documentation of expenditures was done.
2.13  As early as the July 1991 Review Mission, findings were made showing the
need to extend the loan to be able to absorb the loan amount of $200 million.
The March 1992 Review Mission suggested the possibility of
restructuring the project by extending the implementation period from 3 to 5
years. This restructuring would require a reallocation of funds among the
categories specified in the Loan Agreement and cancellation of some amount
which will not be utilized and subsequently, the extension of the loan closing
date.
2.14  The Resident Mission based at the Bangko Sental ng Pilipinas Building in
Manila extended its support to the project by providing facilitative and
coordinative service between the implementing agency and the Bank's
headquarters in Washington, D.C.
III. PROJECT OUTCOMES
The project's outputs helped in improving the elementary education subsector
and DECS as a whole in the areas of policy and sector improvement.
3.1   Policy Improvement
The studies on Drop-out Intervention, Pre-service Teacher Training and
PBET Validity have resulted in policy recommendations along these areas. The
DIP study laid the groundwork for expansion of the project to other
provinces/regions of the country.  The Pre-Service Teacher Training Study
recommended the adoption of measures to prevent the further proliferation of
teacher education programs in already heavily concentrated areas.  The
Commission on Higher Education (CHED) has imposed a moratorium on the
opening of new Teacher Education programs except for courses offering
specialization in Science, English and Mathematics. Phase I of the PBET study
has guided CHED in the formulation of criteria for the selection of Centers of
Excellence for Teacher Education. The results of the second phase of the study
will be useful in judging the quality of teacher education institutions (TEIs) and
eventually, one of the basis for the closure of programs in low performing
schools.



43
Annex B
Page 13 of 15
3.2   Sector Improvement
The provision of essential educational facilities such as schoolbuildings
and desks has contributed to the overall goal of achieving equity and quality in
education. Barangays without elementary schools were provided with a two-
classroom schoolbuilding. Incomplete elementary schools were made complete
through the construction of additional classrooms to house other grade levels.
Classroom furniture replaced the dilapidated wooden benches. Schools and
colleges of arts and trades in some regions earned additional income through the
manufacture of wooden desks or armchairs to supply elementary schools.
Textbook production requirements exceeded planned targets. However, inspite
of this achievement, the goal of increasing the textbook-pupil ratio from 1:2 to
1:1 by the end of 1992 has not been attained. This is attributed to the lack of
monitoring mechanism which will ensure that the books are delivered to the end
users on schedule.
The project's outputs also contributed to improvements in performance
indicators such as participation rate, cohort survival rate and achievement rate.
The average participation rate for the elementary level from 1990 to 1995 was
87.42 % or an average annual increase of 2.64 % while the average cohort
survival rate for the same period was 67.63 %. Achievement level based on the
mean score in the National Elementary Achievement Test (NEAT) rose from
41.77 when it was initially administered in 1993 to 45.64 in 1995 or an increase
of 3.87 for the three-year period.
The expansion of the literacy training program paved the way for the
development of a project which focuses on illiterate youth and adults in
disadvantaged areas of selected provinces.
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
4.1    Budget Support Nature of the Loan
The World Bank and OECF loans were considered budget support loans
to finance regular expenditures of the government. The project was not treated
as a foreign-assisted project in the General Appropriations Act and it did not
result in any significant incremental expenditures for DECS. The allocation for
the various components of the project which are financed by the loans are part
of the Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses (MOOE) budget for regional
operations (in the case of desks, textbooks and equipment) and capital outlays
(for schoolbuildings). By the very nature of these expenditures i.e, these are
basic education requirements, the funds were released regardless of loan
drawdown performance.



44
Annex B
Page 14 of 15
4.2   Project Management Arrangements
The Project Implementation Coordinating Unit (PICU) which was
supposed to be the Project Monitoring Office did not become fully operational
(see Para. 2.4). Hence, PICU operated on an adhoc basis. During the initial
stage of project implementation, a request for funds to cover the operating
expenses of the PICU was made to the Department of Budget and Management.
However, the request was denied since the components of the project are part of
the regular projects of the implementing agency. The absence of a full-time
staff to work on the project caused delays in disbursement because of the
inability to follow-up and collect expenditure documentation on a regular basis.
4.3    Over-estimation of Targets
The project suffered from budgetary cut backs in 1991 because of the
Gulf War and the corresponding economy measures set by the government. The
reduction in budgetarv allocation affected the achievement of targets set during
the appraisal of the project (Para. 1.6).
4.4   Preparation of the Audit Reports
-nspite of a memorandum issued by the Commission on Audit in 1990,
the submission of the annual audit reports to the Bank was delayed from six
months to one year during the first three years of project implementation. This
was attributed to the sheer volume of transactions at the field level (especially
true for the schoolbuilding program) which requires a long period for auditing
and preparation of audit reports. A follow-up memo was issued by COA in
1994 reiterating the provisions of the memorandum issued in 1990. The delay
was reduced to three months or less during the succeeding years. Constant
monitoring of the field offices was done to minimize delays in reporting.
4.5   Documenration of Expendirures
Disbursements from the loan were made upon submission of a report
called Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). This report was prepared by the
office where disbursements were made (the DPWH district engineering offices
in the case of schoolbuildings and the DECS field offices in the case of desks
and equipment). In some cases, the regional offices also submitted SOEs when
implementation was made at this level. The preparation of SOEs is a time
consuming task because each individual transaction has to be recorded monthly.
This is especially true for the schoolbuilding program which consists of
thousands of small-scale projects. The processing of SOEs for inclusion in a
withdrawal application is a tedious task on the part of the staff assigned to this
job because all expenditure items have to be checked individually to determine
if these are eligible for reimbursement. Computational errors, double reporting
and cumulative reporting are the most common reasons for delays in processing.



45
Annex B
Page 15 of 15
The fact that the project was not specifically identified as a foreign-
assisted project since it merely financed regular expenditures and did not result
in any significant incremental expenditures led to a lack of attention to the
requirements for expenditure documentation. This expenditure documentation
involved additional work to existing duties for all those involved from the field
level to the central level.
4.6   Lack of Monitoring Mechanism
DECS does not have its own mechanism in place to monitor the
Schoolbuilding Program. It has to rely on the report of DPWH to determine
how many of the facilities were actually built, replaced or rehabilitated within a
given year. On the issue of textbook delivery, the responsibility of IMDC ends
upon receipt of the textbooks in the division warehouses. DECS still lacks the
necessary logistics to monitor delivery up to the school level and to ensure that
the books are issued to the schoolchildren.






I









LfA'. Titt N
LR' e         F -               i_ l t tK . -,   1; - -
.L  'Y   |~ ?0 -,   i  '' ,,  1- '-l 'L    E



