                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001470



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-73470)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$240 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                         UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                               IN SUPPORT OF

                          THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

                  SCHOOL-BASED MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                 June 28, 2010




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective 06/18/2010)

                     Currency Unit = Peso (MXN$)
                         MXN$1.00 = 0.08 US$
                      1.00 US$ = 12.58 MXN$1.00
                            FISCAL YEAR

                        January 1 ­ December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AEE         State Education Authorities (Autoridades Educativas Estatales)
AGEB        Basic Geo-Statistical Area (Área Geo-Estadística Básica) of CONAPO
ANMEB       National Agreement for Basic Education Modernization (Acuerdo
            Nacional para la Modernización de la Educación Básica)
APL         Adaptable Program Loan
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDI         National Commission for the Development of Indigenous Peoples
            (Comisión Nacional para el Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas)
CEPS        School Councils (Consejos Escolares de Participación Social)
CEPSE       State Education Council for Social Participation (Consejo Estatal de
            Participación Social en la Educación
CGEIB       General Coordination for Intercultural and Bilingual Education
            (Coordinación General para la Educación Intercultural Bilingüe)
CGEPEC      State Coordination of the PEC Program (Coordinación General Estatal del
            PEC
CNPEC       National Coordination of the PEC Program (Coordinación Nacional del
            PEC) at SEP
CONAFE      National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de
            Fomento Educativo) of SEP
CONALITEG   National Commission for Free Textbooks (Comisión Nacional de Libros de
            Texto Guatuitos)
CONAPO      National Population Council (Consejo Nacional de Población)
DGAPRF      General Directorate for Budget and Financial Resource Administration
            (Dirección General de Administración Presupuestal y Recursos
            Financieros) at SEP
DGE         General Directorate for Evaluation (Dirección General de Evaluación) at
            SEP
DGEI        General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Dirección General de
            Educación Indigena) at SEP
DGPPP       General Directorate for Planning, Programming, and Budgeting (Dirección
            General de Planeación, Programación y Presupuesto) at SEP
DGRMS       General Directorate for Material and Service Resources (Dirección
             General de Recursos Materiales y Servicios) at SEP
DGTI         General Directorate for Information Technology (Dirección General de
             Tecnología de la Información) at SEP
FAEB         Contribution Fund for Basic Education (Fondo de Aportaciones para la
             Educación Básica)
FEEC         State Trust Fund for the PEC (Fideicomiso Nacional para Escuelas de
             Calidad)
FISM         Fund for Social Municipal Infrastructure (Fondo de Infraestructura Social
             Municipal)
FM           Financial Management (Gestión Financiera)
FMR          Financial Monitoring Report (Informe de Monitoreo Financiero)

FNEC         National Trust Fund for the PEC (Fideicomiso Nacional para Escuelas de
             Calidad)
IADB         Inter-American Development Bank
INEE         National Institute for Education Evaluation (Instituto Nacional para la
             Evaluación Educativa)
INEGI        National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Informatics (Instituto
             Nacional de Estadística, Geografía e Informática)
IPDP         Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
LGE          General Education Law (Ley General de Educación)
MET          Technical Memorandum of Understanding on Audit (Memorando Técnico
             de Entendimiento sobre Auditorías)
MIS          Management Information System (Memorando Técnico de Entndimiento
             sobre Auditorías)
NAFIN        National Financing Agency (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OM           Operational Manual
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PARE         Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo)
             (Loan 3407-ME, 1991)
PAREB        Second Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en
             Educación Básica) (Loan 4722-ME, 1994)
PAREIB-I     Basic Education Development Project, APL I (Programa para Abatir el
             Rezago en Educación Inicial y Básica) (Loan 4333-ME, 1998)
PAREIB-II    Basic Education Development Project, APL II (Programa para Abatir el
             Rezago en Educación Inicial y Básica) (Loan 7108-ME-ME, 1998)
PAREIB-III   Basic Education Development Project, APL III (Programa para Abatir el
             Rezago en Educación Inicial y Básica)
PAT          Annual Work Program (Programa Anual de Trabajo) of PEC schools
PEC          Quality Schools Program (Programa Escuelas de Calidad)
PETE         Strategic School Transformation Plan (Plan Estratégico de
             Transformación Escolar) of PEC schools
PIARE        Integral Program of Education (Programa Integral para Reducir el Rezago
             Educativo) financed by IADB
PNE              National Education Program 2001-2006 (Programa Nacional de
                 Educación 2001-2006)
PRODEI           Initial Education Project (Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la Educación
                 Inicial) (Loan 3518-ME, 1992)
PROSSE           Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales
                 Esenciales) (Loan 3913-ME)
SBM              School-Based Management
SEB              Under-Secretariat of Basic Education (Subsecretaría de Educación Básica)
                 at SEP
SEGOB            Secretariat of Internal Affairs (Secretaría de Gobernación)
SEP              Secretariat of Public Education (Secretaría de Educación Pública)
SFP              Secretariat for Administrative Development (Secretaría de la Función
                 Pública)
SHCP             Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito
                 Público)
SIPEC            Information System for the Quality Schools Program (Sistema de
                 Información del Programa Escuelas de Calidad)
SOE              Statement of Expenditure
SOSEDF           Under-Secretariat of Educational Services for the Federal District
                 (Subsecretaría de Operación de los Servicios Educativos para el Distrito
                 Federal) at SEP
Telesecundaria   Television-Based Lower Secondary Education Program
TESOFE           National Treasury Under-Secretariat (Tesorería de la Federación) at SHCP




                           Vice President: Pamela Cox
                         Country Director: Gloria Grandolini
                          Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
                      Project Team Leader: Ricardo Silveira/Erik Bloom
                      ICR Primary Author: Suzana de Campos Abbott
                                          MEXICO
                          School-Based Management Project, First Phase




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 23
  No additional comments received. Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .................. 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Informal translation of Borrower's comments (Letter dated June 15, 2010) ............... 33
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 37
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Mexico Education
Country:                Mexico                  Project Name:
                                                                          Quality
Project ID:             P088728                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73470
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          SECRETARIAT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PUBLIC EDUCATION
Original Total
                        USD 240.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 240.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 240.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretariat of Public Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process               Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/16/2005    Effectiveness:             11/17/2006       11/17/2006
Appraisal:             10/13/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/13/2005    Mid-term Review:           07/31/2007       09/13/2007
                                     Closing:                   07/31/2009       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     2                      2
Pre-primary education                                                 18                  18
Primary education                                                     40                  40
Secondary education                                                   40                  40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  20
Education for all                                                     40                  50
Managing for development results                                      20                  20
Participation and civic engagement                                    20                  30

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 David N. Sislen
Sector Manager:            Chingboon Lee                        Evangeline Javier
Project Team Leader:       Ricardo Rocha Silveira               Harry Anthony Patrinos
ICR Team Leader:           Ricardo Rocha Silveira
ICR Primary Author:        Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed project aims to improve public school management through strengthening
and expanding the Government's Quality Schools Program (Programa Escuelas de
Calidad, PEC) now being implemented on a pilot scale by SEP. PEC is designed to


                                                  ii
empower the school community, and promote school autonomy and accountability,
encouraging parents, teachers and directors to design and carryout school improvement
plans that respond to the needs of the school and its students. The PEC awards a grant to
finance the improvement plans in selected schools; these grants are jointly financed by
SEP and state governments. The program is open to all public basic education schools
that apply on a voluntarily basis, but priority is given to disadvantaged schools located in
poor urban areas, as these schools have the most need and also tend to benefit more from
the program. The federal investment in the program leverages approximately half as
much in state contributions and in donations from local school communities, where
schools mobilize parents, municipal governments and private organizations to support
their school improvement plans.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                  (a) Number of schools participating in PEC as percentage of the total number of
Indicator 1 :
                  basic education schools
Value
quantitative or   10.3% (2005/2006)         15.8%                              20.35%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/14/2005                07/31/2009                         12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of basic education schools participating in PEC
Value
quantitative or   21,500 (2005/2006)        33,087                             40,790
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/14/2005                07/31/2009                         12/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Commitment to the goals and activities of the PETE as expressed by local
Indicator 3 :
                  financial contributions to the schools (Mexican pesos/school)
Value
quantitative or   30,168                    34,968                             8,170
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/14/2005                  07/31/2009                         12/10/2009
Comments          As explained in the text, this target was not met due to PEC's focus on
(incl. %          incorporating poorer and smaller schools. This target will be reformulated for
achievement)      PEC II, taking into account PEC's strategy of focusing on the poorest schools.


                                                 iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                          Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                         Revised
                                            approval                            Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                          documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Percentage of community members that know PETE
Value
(quantitative   62                        71                                 76.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/14/2005                  07/31/2009                         12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of community members that observe participatory decision-making
Indicator 2 :
                between parents, teachers and principal about school affairs
Value
(quantitative   82                        87                                 90.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/14/2005                  07/31/2009                         12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of community members that observe teachers encouraging and
Indicator 3 :
                supporting student performance
Value
(quantitative   95                        95                                 66.9
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/14/2005                  07/31/2009                         12/10/2009
Comments        There was a cahnge in definition since the baseline was established, leading to a
(incl. %        more conservative estimate of community observation of teachers. The new
achievement) Indicator try to ensure the actual observation of positive practices by teachers.
                Number of PEC schools located in areas of medium, high and very high
Indicator 4 : marginalization levels (Total)

                medium 3559                                                    Total    15,068
Value
                high 5092                   Target established                 Medium 5,153
(quantitative
                very high 799               at appraisal                       High      4,635
or Qualitative)
                Total 9450                                                     Very High 5,280
Date achieved 11/14/2005                    07/31/2009                         12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Percentage of states that report on time the information of the Program through
Indicator 5 :
                SIPEC
Value           Base line was not
                                            80%                                75%
(quantitative   avaiable at appraisal



                                                iv
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/14/2005                   07/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments          As explained in the text, PEC is changing its MIS requirements and the final
(incl. %          indicator reflects this, including states using SIPEC and acceptable, comparable
achievement)      systems.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/29/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/05/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     10/31/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
                                                            Moderately
  4     05/12/2007             Satisfactory                                              115.16
                                                          Unsatisfactory
                                                            Moderately
  5     12/03/2007             Satisfactory                                              126.42
                                                          Unsatisfactory
  6     04/27/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           180.30
  7     12/14/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           207.42
  8     05/16/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           235.23
  9     12/04/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           237.79
 10     02/19/2010       Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  240.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                                   v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

By the 2005 appraisal of the School-Based Management Project (the Project) in support
of the First Phase of the School-Based Management Program (the Program), Mexico had
made significant progress in expanding access to education. By 2005, 93 percent of
school-aged children were attending primary school, with a completion rate of 89
percent. Despite this progress, however, universal coverage remained a challenge,
particularly in rural areas, indigenous communities, and among migrant students where
dropout and repetition rates remained high. Overall, the main issues facing Mexico's
education system were: (i) inequality in access to learning; (ii) low access to preschool,
lower secondary, and upper secondary education; (iii) low internal efficiency; and (iv)
low overall learning achievement levels throughout the education system. In contrast to
the high enrollments at the primary level, net enrollment in upper secondary education
was only 53 percent in 2004, which is particularly low compared to similar economies in
Latin America, such as Argentina and Chile.

The quality of education was a particular concern. The overall learning achievement
levels were low. School quality had not kept pace with enrollment increases and many
children, especially poor children, were educated in low quality schools. In 2006,
Mexico's results on the international PISA assessment showed that one percent of 15
year olds were at the highest level of performance in Reading and Math, compared to an
OECD average of 7.6 percent. 21 percent of Mexican students were below Level One--
the lowest level of performance--in Spanish, and 28 percent were below Level One in
Math. These last two results were significantly worse than the corresponding OECD
average of only seven and eight percent, respectively.

Mexico's 2001 National Education Development Program proposed initiatives at all
levels of government to address issues of education equity and quality. Analysis in Bank
sector work identified school autonomy, accountability and assessment as factors that
would help improve the quality of education in Mexico.1

In 2001, the Government introduced the Programa Escuelas de Calidad (Quality Schools
Program, PEC), a school-based management program that aimed to promote community
participation in schools. PEC was the first federal program in Mexico aimed at
transforming schools by making them the center of decision making. Stakeholders from
the school community included school directors, teachers, parents, and community
members that form the School Council of Social Participation. The council designed a
School Transformation Strategic Plan (Plan Estratégico de Transformación Escolar,
PETE) and an Annual Work Program (Programa Anual de Trabajo, PAT). The PETE
was then submitted to state officials, who would evaluate the plan and the accepted ones
1
 Garcia, V., Knaul, F. and Patrinos, H.A., Returns to Education and Quality of Education in Mexico, 2005,
World Bank (Processed)



                                                   1
would receive resources for up to five years (renewable each year, based on satisfactory
performance). The Federal Government funded 75 percent of the total cost of the
Program, while states financed the remaining 25 percent. Schools could raise further
resources from the school community, including Non-Governmental Organizations and
the private sector. Additional PEC rules required that the school community be involved
in carrying out the PETE. Parents have a direct participation as they are custodians of the
funds and must verify the purchases and contracts made using PEC resources.
Participation by the schools in PEC was voluntary. States selected schools to participate
in PEC following Federal Government rules that required a competitive review of the
PETEs, while prioritizing disadvantaged schools, particularly indigenous schools.

PEC had been operating for about four years when the Mexican Government in 2005
requested the Bank to provide support to the Program to help improve learning outcomes.
Support for the Project was fully consistent with the objectives of the Bank's Country
Partnership Strategy (CAS) for Mexico because PEC contributed to improving the quality
of basic education services, ensuring the sustainability of the ongoing efforts in basic
education, and, at a higher level, reducing poverty in the longer run. Improving the
quality of education was seen in the CAS as critical for Mexico to become competitive in
the knowledge economy.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Project aimed to improve public school management through strengthening and
expanding the Secretariat of Public Education's (Secretaría de Educación Pública, SEP)
PEC Program. PEC was designed to empower the school community, and promote school
autonomy and accountability. The long-term development objective of the three-phase
APL for the School-Based Management Program was to improve the quality of education
as measured by coverage, social participation and educational outcomes, as follows:

   ¾ Program schools as a percentage of all public basic education schools;
   ¾ Commitment to the goals and activities of the PETEs or its state equivalent as
     expressed by local financial contributions to the schools; and
   ¾ Average test scores in Math and Spanish for students in participating PEC
     schools. This indicator was to be reported by type of school (primary, secondary)
     and would be evaluated during the Third Phase of the Project.

The First Phase of the APL was to support fine-tuning of the model and lead to increased
levels of participation and school autonomy, and a modest expansion with robust
accountability measures and increased use of assessments. The First Phase was to
support the federal share of the Program and consist of: (i) school grants; (ii) monitoring
and Program oversight; and (iii) policy development and evaluation, including specific
interventions to encourage the participation of schools serving the most disadvantaged
urban areas where the Program was expected to be expanded in subsequent Phases.




                                            2
Triggers for moving forward with preparation of the Second Phase, which were similar to
the outcome indicators in the Project Appraisal Document's (PAD's) Results Framework,
included:

   ¾ Number of schools participating in the Program (including schools that graduate
     and no longer receive financial support) will increase by 50 percent;
   ¾ Program schools (including schools that graduate) as a percentage of all public
     basic education schools will increase to 15 percent;
   ¾ Completion of baseline data collection for impact evaluation; and
   ¾ Government approval of the Program expansion plan with specific targets for
     expansion.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDOs and Key Indicators were not revised during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project's main beneficiaries were primary and lower secondary school-aged children
enrolled in disadvantaged areas and communities.

At the time of appraisal, about 55 percent of the schools in PEC were located in small
towns with less than 15,000 people, and 15 percent were located in medium-sized cities
with less than 100,000 inhabitants. Focusing on smaller communities was expected to
facilitate participation and increase oversight. Only 4.5 percent of PEC schools were
located in urban areas classified as highly marginal. Since participation in PEC was
voluntary, schools with higher human and social capital were seen to be in a better
position to participate in the Program. Participation would likely be considerably lower
in schools in marginal urban neighborhoods since the level of parents' education in those
areas tended to be lower. To deal with this issue, a compensatory promotion strategy was
to be included in the Project.

The selection criteria for participation in PEC were: (i) preference was to be given to
schools that had participated in the Program in prior years---up to a maximum of five
years---and continued to fulfill Program requirements; (ii) among schools applying to the
Program for the first time, preference was to be given to qualified schools located in
urban areas (AGEBs) of medium, high and very high marginality; and (iii) further, a state
could use additional school priority selection criteria, as long as those criteria were
applied uniformly to all public basic education schools in the state and did not contradict
the PEC National Operating Rules.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project comprised three components, as described below.



                                            3
Component 1: School Grants (US$324.7 million including contingencies, equivalent
to 94 percent of project costs; US$234.49 Bank financing)

This Component would finance the federal share of the PEC school grant program that
was transferred each year by SEP from the PEC National Trust Fund to the PEC State
Trust Funds of participating states. The states would complement federal funds in
accordance with a financing-share schedule and would be responsible for the Program's
implementation in their jurisdictions. At the local level, the Program would be carried
out by the State Education Authorities (AEEs) and the Sub-Secretariat of Educational
Services for the Federal District (SOSEDF). The AEEs would transfer PEC grants from
the State Trust Funds directly to the bank accounts of the participating schools, after
completing a process of Program dissemination, submission of applications by interested
schools, technical assistance to schools for preparation of grant proposals, qualification of
proposals, and selection of schools for grant award. This process was to be repeated each
year throughout the country. To qualify for the Program, the schools would need to
establish participatory school management and present satisfactory PETE proposals.
States would give priority to qualified schools in low-income urban neighborhoods.
Under the Project, an estimated 33,000 public schools were expected to benefit from one
or more of the following types of PEC grants:

       (a) Initial PEC grant, renewable for a maximum of five years. An initial grant
           was to be awarded to all schools selected (from the schools that voluntarily
           chose to participate and submitted plans) to participate in the Program in a
           given year, and could be renewed for a maximum of five years. Each year,
           the schools that wished to continue in the Program would need to re-apply for
           the grant, meet the selection criteria, and be chosen by the state selection
           committee to receive a grant. After the five-year cycle, the schools would
           graduate from the Program. The amount of this grant would vary according to
           the requirement of each PETE, but would not exceed MXN$50,000
           (US$4,600 at the time of appraisal) per year, per school. The AEEs were to
           transfer the grant funds to the bank accounts of the schools in a single
           installment in the first half of the school year, before the end of the fourth
           month of classes.
       (b) Supplemental matching grant, renewable for a maximum of five years. A
           supplemental matching grant was to be awarded to PEC schools that were
           implementing PETEs with funds from the initial PEC grant, but that had also
           mobilized additional local resources for their plan. The PEC schools eligible
           for this type of grant would be those that sought and obtained donations in
           cash and/or in kind from parents, municipal governments, civil organizations
           and/or private enterprises. The supplemental grant would match the amount
           of local resources raised by the school, but was not to exceed MXN$50,000
           per year, per school. Schools could apply and receive additional supplemental
           grants during the five-year Program cycle, provided they continued to meet
           the eligibility criteria. The AEEs were to transfer the supplemental grant




                                             4
           funds to the bank accounts of the schools in the second half of the school year,
           before the end of the ninth month of classes; and
       (c) Special matching grant, with no renewal restrictions. This special type of
           grant was to be targeted to disadvantaged basic education public schools that
           wanted to continue to carry out their PETE after graduating from the five-year
           PEC Program cycle, but required financial support to do so. To be eligible, a
           school needed to meet the following criteria: (i) be located in lower-income
           urban neighborhoods; (ii) be graduated from the regular PEC Program; (iii)
           meet Program requirements; and (iv) have raised additional local resources in
           support of their PETE.

The PEC Program's Operating Rules (Reglas de Operación) were published by SEP
every year since PEC's inception; they specify the amount to be invested in the Program
each year by the Federal Government and the states, and confirm the criteria for the
selection of schools and the arrangements for the Program's implementation at the
national and state levels. These rules are an official annex to the Project's Operations
Manual. Rules are changed on an annual basis, which does not necessarily led to a
change in the Operations Manual. During PEC's implementation, the AEEs could
introduce additional procedures to operate the Program in their jurisdiction, provided they
complied fully with the Program's Operating Rules.

This Component also financed the banking needs for the administration of the PEC
federal trust fund through counterpart funding.

Component 2: Program Monitoring and Oversight (US$15.1 million including
contingencies, equivalent to 4 percent of project costs; no Bank financing)

This Component would finance Program monitoring, oversight and information
dissemination by SEP with the objective of ensuring compliance with Program Operating
rules throughout the country and providing ample information to the public about the
Program's operations and results. It was to be carried out through three Subcomponents.

Subcomponent 2.1: Program monitoring would finance the continuous operation,
maintenance and upgrading of the PEC national management information system
(Sistema de Información del Programa Escuelas de Calidad---SIPEC). The SIPEC was
operational, and online at appraisal, and would be continuously updated. It serves to: (i)
record and systematize information on the operation of PEC at school, state and federal
levels; (ii) record key Program outcomes, such as the use schools gave to the grant funds
and the local funds mobilized; and (iii) flag shortcomings that needed to be addressed by
state agencies for the Program's efficient operation. SIPEC would be enhanced through
the design, test and operation of a customized user support module that would be made
available to participating states and schools, enabling them to maintain the appropriate
flow of information to the national office. The institutional management of the SIPEC
would also be improved, especially regarding the linkage between the flagging of a
problem and the corresponding remedial action. This Subcomponent would finance




                                            5
consultants' services for system development. SEP would finance the procurement of
additional computer equipment with other sources of funds.

Subcomponent 2.2: Support for program implementation would assist the PEC
national coordination office in providing technical and operational support to the AEEs to
ensure smooth Program implementation in accordance with its Operating Rules. Regular
SEP staff assigned to PEC by the Under-Secretariat of Basic Education would be used to
carry out this Subcomponent. SEP's team consisted of experts in program operations and
basic education that would carry out the following activities: (i) visit each state several
times a year following an intensive supervision program; (ii) organize seminars and
workshops to promote the continuous development of technical staff working on the
Program at the state level; and (iii) coordinate regional and national meetings and the
PEC annual Congress, attended by federal and state authorities. Through these activities,
Program innovations would be discussed, best practices shared, and the Program
Operating Rules updated. Funds allocated to this Subcomponent were to be funded
entirely by the Government to finance travel, workshops, meetings, including hotel
accommodations, meals, speakers, facilitator and materials. Technical support to schools
for the preparation of their PETEs was not included under this Subcomponent since this
assistance was to be provided by the AEEs and funded by a 20 percent share of state
funds deposited in the PEC state trust funds.

Subcomponent 2.3: Support for Program dissemination would assist to disseminate
information on Program objectives, activities and results with the aim of promoting the
Program and guaranteeing full accountability and transparency. Television, radio,
newspapers and special publications would be used throughout the year to disseminate
messages tailored to specific audiences of parents, teachers, directors, AEEs' technical
staff and society at large. The National Free Textbooks Commission (Comisión Nacional
de Libros de Textos Gratuitos-CONALITEG) would continue to publish a Program
magazine, Educare, and distribute it three times per year across Mexico. SEP would
continue collaborating with the Secretariat of Internal Affairs (Secretaría de
Gobernación--SEGOB) to gain access to the official television network and other media
for PEC's messages. This Subcomponent would finance the production of television,
radio and newspaper messages, the design and editing of periodicals and pamphlets and
the printing and distribution of materials, all with Government funding.

Component 3: Policy Development and Evaluation (US$5.8 million including
contingencies, equivalent to 2 percent of project costs; US$4.91 Bank financing)

This Component would finance the development of basic education policy based on the
results of policy studies, Program evaluation activities and pilot experiments designed to
test possible future adjustments to the Program's design and financing. It was to be
carried out through two Subcomponents.

Subcomponent 3.1: Program evaluation would support the design and implementation
of program evaluation activities that were to be carried out throughout the APL
Program's implementation in order to create a strong analytical basis for its further



                                            6
development. The following types of evaluation activities would be financed over the
three phases of the APL Program: (i) external evaluation of the Program's performance
and preparation of the Annual Report to the National Congress; (ii) qualitative evaluation
to determine the non-quantifiable benefits accruing from the Program; (iii) student
learning achievements using National Standards, and (iv) impact evaluation by an
external, independent evaluation using rigorous methodology. Under the Project (i.e., the
first phase of the APL Program), impact evaluation activities were to comprise: (i) the
design and field test of evaluation methodology and data collection instruments; (ii) a
baseline survey, and (iii) preliminary data analysis. Repeated surveys to measure the
impact of the Program and further analysis and dissemination of results would be
financed under subsequent phases of the APL Program. This Subcomponent would
finance consultants' services provided by individuals, firms and national academic
institutions.

Subcomponent 3.2: Policy studies would support the development of national basic
education policy, including the lower-secondary education reform that was currently in
progress at the time of appraisal, through the analysis of national and international
assessments of student learning achievement, evaluations of the Program's outcomes, and
special studies, all addressing the following themes, among others:

   ·   Development and pilot experiment of strategies to encourage applications to
       participate in PEC from schools located in lower-income urban areas, and to
       identify the best way to provide technical assistance to help those schools prepare
       PETEs;
   ·   Adjustments to the PEC design and financing aimed to strengthen its impact and
       expand its coverage; and
   ·   PEC expansion plan for Phases II and III of the proposed APL Program.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during implementation

1.7 Other significant changes

The loan's July 31, 2009 closing date was extended by five months to December 31,
2009 on April 6, 2009.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis. The Program's objectives fit well with the Bank's
analysis of what is required to improve learning outcomes, and with lessons learned from
similar school-based management programs mostly in Latin America, but in other regions
as well. The Project's preparation followed extensive, programmatic sector work on the
quality of education in Mexico that had identified school autonomy and school


                                            7
environment as important factors that affected learning outcomes. It also built on regional
sector work that showed the importance of schools in "producing" education quality and
highlighted the opportunity to use participation and assessments to improve quality2.

The review of World Bank projects supporting similar programs at the time showed that
those projects often did not have the improvement of learning outcomes as their primary
goal, and therefore, did not include indicators to measure those outcomes as it was
difficult to see any changes during the life span of a project. Still, the review did show
that the grant mechanism was an enabling instrument for creating conditions that could
lead to a responsive education system, acting as a catalyst for change and empowerment.

There have been few concrete evaluations of the impact of school-based management on
learning outcomes. Perhaps the best-known school-based management program at the
time, the EDUCO program in El Salvador, which the Bank had been supporting for
several years, had been evaluated in terms of learning outcomes as well as participation.
That project's impact evaluation found that greater participation by parents in schools, as
measured by the number of visits to classrooms by a parent association member, was
significantly and positively correlated with higher test scores in math and language. PEC
authorities are committed to carry out an impact evaluation of the program during Phase
II. A baseline study was conducted during Phase I.

Assessment of the Project's Design. The Project's design was responsive to the needs of
a program like PEC. Its technical design drew on several years of experience in the
implementation of PEC and other SEP programs. There was extensive technical work in
Mexico that guided the Project's design that focused on: (i) improving the quality of
schooling; (ii) setting internal and international benchmarks on key indicators; (iii)
evaluating the effectiveness of public programs designed to improve school quality; and
(iv) designing improvements to policies and programs. Based on this analysis, a bottom-
up approach that empowered the school community was seen as the best option. The
Program also incorporated baseline and follow-up data for qualitative and quantitative
analysis of operational processes and outcomes.

The choice of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument was appropriate for a
program requiring sustained long-term investments that introduced innovations in the
way education services were delivered. The APL instrument was seen as providing
flexibility to permit adjustment to the Program's design and financing over time, as
country conditions changed and partnerships evolved. Also an APL responded to the
need to incorporate lessons of experience through a process of learning-by-doing, in
which the needs of different school communities and the realities of working in a federal
structure could be addressed. The Project (Phase I of the APL) was seen as fine-tuning
the model and leading to increased levels of participation and school autonomy, with
robust accountability measures and increased use of assessments and impact evaluations.
Phase II would consolidate gains and make appropriate improvements to the model and
2
 World Bank (2005). Determinants of Learning Policy Note. Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Human Development Department.



                                               8
expand to more disadvantaged schools, with the goal of seeing improvements in
intermediate outcomes such as retention and dropout rates. Phase III would lead to
improvements in learning outcomes. The Project's objectives, intermediate outcome
indicators and triggers for moving ahead to Phase II of the APL were succinctly defined.
Based on the experience of similar projects, the Program's outcomes in terms of learning
achievements in Math and Spanish would only be evaluated during Phase III of the APL

Adequacy of the Government's Commitment. The PEC Program had been in place since
2001, and the Government sought Bank involvement to help consolidate the gains that
had by then so far been achieved, and to expand the Program while contributing to its
long-term sustainability. The Government requested Bank support after four years of the
Program's operation, when concerns about its impact and sustainability surfaced.
Building upon the Bank's earlier support to Mexico's education sector, the Government
felt that the Bank's presence would consolidate gains and provide crucial support to
expand the Program while strengthening its fiduciary norms. The Government's
commitment to the Program's and, consequently, the Project's objectives was strong.
The Government's commitment was expressed in a Policy Letter on the Program that was
submitted to the Bank during preparation.

Assessment of the Risks. The Project's assessment of risks was extensive, and identified
the overall risk rating of low. Several key risks were not identified and subsequently
materialized. First, the disbursement of grants under Component 1 was much faster than
the technical assistance under Components 2 and 3. Second, some states had difficulties
in adopting and utilizing SIPEC.

Consultative Processes. The social assessment carried out during project preparation
involved a stakeholder analysis focused on capturing: (i) the Program's existing and
potential beneficiaries; (ii) actual experiences of beneficiaries and other actors involved
in the Program; (iii) expectations held by the relevant stakeholders; (iv) levels of social
capital and potential for participation; and (v) impact of the Program on the lives of
participants. The analysis was based on interviews with the Program's coordinators at the
state level and with a sample of school directors, complemented by several existing
studies. It provided specific recommendations that were addressed in the Project's design,
especially with respect to the need for targeted communications and information
dissemination and strategies to incorporate broader community participation in the
definition of specific school priorities.

2.2 Implementation

The Bank's loan for the Project was approved by the Board on December 13, 2005,
signed on April 7, 2006 and became effective on November 17, 2006. A Mid-Term
Review was held on September 13, 2007. The following issues impacted the Project's
implementation:

Project Design. As mentioned in Section 2.1, the Project's design was very responsive to
the needs of the Program. One issue that surfaced was the rapid disbursement of Bank



                                            9
finance for school grants (under Component 1) that outpaced PEC's capacity to monitor
and evaluate the Project's progress, which was supported by technical strengthening
under other components. This was not expected given delays in effectiveness and the
provision for US$24 million in retroactive financing, almost immediately after
effectiveness, by mid-2007, nearly half of the loan was disbursed. At that time, since the
Project was new, the monitoring of output indicators was limited and the financial
information system provided by SEP did not provide comfort to proceed with
disbursement of grants. In response, SHCP informally suspended disbursements against
school grants to allow PEC to strengthen its financial management, through an Action
Plan.

Institutional Capacity of Federal Entities and Schools. As any program implemented in a
large, federal country like Mexico, the institutional capacity of the decentralized
implementing agencies, in this case 32 AEEs and thousands of schools, varies greatly.
PEC originally adopted an almost "cookie-cutter" approach that required undifferentiated
application of the Program's systems and processes across all levels. In the roll out and
adoption of SIPEC to all the AEEs, it soon became apparent that their capacities varied
greatly and there would be a need to adjust the one-size-fits-all approach. This would
allow those states with limited capacity to respond to the objective of providing reliable
financial and monitoring information through their own systems.

Financial Management and Monitoring. Because of the varying institutional capacity
issues described above, the Project faced issues with the timely receipt of financial and
other information. This was eventually addressed by allowing them to provide this
information through their existing or new information systems, and at the same time
developing an accreditation system for state-level MIS that would ensure minimum
requirements were met with respect to school-based reporting.

Social Participation. The success of the school-based management model depends on
mobilizing community and parental support for the schools' programs. As the Project
was implemented, it became clear that social participation lagged behind original
expectations, in part because of the complexity of the PETE and the lack of
understanding of the process by stakeholders. This issue is being addressed in the context
of Phase II of the APL (Section 2.5).

Supervision Missions. During the implementation of Phase I, the World Bank carried out
eight supervision missions in order to monitor the advances in project's implementation
and the challenges it was facing. This was crucial to identify areas in which
improvements were possible. The Government was open to these missions and worked
closely with the Bank in improving and adjusting the project. During the missions, the
Bank visited schools and state authorities in different parts of the country (Chihuahua,
Colima, Guanajuato Mexico, Mexico City, Morelos, Oaxaca, Puebla, Tamaulipas, and
Zacatecas).


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization



                                           10
M&E Design. In the Project's design, monitoring and evaluation were seen as an integral
element to inform policy so that objectives and targets could be adjusted in light of
evidence on their effectiveness. The Project's Component 2 and 3 included technical
assistance activities that were designed to strengthen the PEC's national management
information system, SIPEC, and the design and implementation of the Program's
evaluation activities that were expected to begin in Phase I of the APL.

M&E Implementation and Utilization. At the program level, PEC has a strong system to
monitor its performance. It receives detailed financial information on the transfer of
resources to schools and how those resources are spent. For the reasons described in
Section 2.2 above, practically from the start PEC's project unit was trying to improve its
capacity to obtain data from the AEEs and schools to provide necessary fiduciary data.
Initially PEC's ability to monitor progress at the school level was weak, but with Bank
support and supervision a concerted effort was made to improve data collection. From
the start, SIPEC encountered problems related to technological issues and overall
implementation capacity. SEP eventually presented a proposal to the Bank to allow
states to use existing or develop new alternative school-based information systems, and
contracted a consultant to design the accreditation system for state-level MIS. In the end,
SIPEC has been fully adopted by 19 states, partially adopted in 8 states and not adopted
in 5states. The Bank was satisfied that the fiduciary and monitoring data obtained through
alternative means was of satisfactory quality, and has adopted this more flexible, tailored
approach to financial and monitoring systems for Phase II of the APL.

PEC carried out a number of activities to gather and analyze information about the
effectiveness of the Project. Some studies were used in the design of the Program's next
phase and will lead to the development of a detailed impact evaluation of the Program.
This information has been utilized to evaluate level of social participation to measure the
impact of PEC's ability to reach poor and indigenous communities, to measure PEC's
effect on social communication, pedagogical practices, and accountability, and to assess
efficiency in monitoring of PEC schools. These activities include: (i) continued
monitoring of information received from schools through the AEEs, (ii) collection of
baseline data for the impact evaluation that focuses on intermediate indicators such as
social participation and school management, (iii) a study of social participation in PEC
schools, and (iv) an assessment of other SEP programs for possible linkage with PEC.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The only Bank safeguard policy that applied to the Project was OD 4.20,
Indigenous People3. The Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan prepared for the Project
identified the main issues that affected the indigenous population's access to basic
education and incorporated their priorities and expectations identified during the

3
    The Project was approved before the current OP 4.10, Indigenous Peoples, was introduced.




                                                     11
consultation process. The Project exceeded the targets in the Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan for incorporating PEC in indigenous schools: over seven percent of
PEC schools are indigenous, against a target of four percent (see also Section 3.5.a).

The Project supported an evaluation of PEC's implementation in indigenous schools that
included consultation with children, parents, teachers, directors, and community
stakeholders in indigenous schools. . The main recommendation were to: (i) develop a
promotion strategy specifically for indigenous communities; (ii) give greater focus on
schools in poorer and more marginalized communities and increase the transparency of
the state-designed school selection criteria; (iii) design special training modules for
parents and other stakeholders in indigenous communities on the preparation of
participation instruments; (iv) reinforce engagement of education authorities in the states
with the highest concentration of indigenous people, including enhanced dissemination,
provision of technical assistance to schools for PETE preparation, and selection of
schools; and (v) develop partnerships with other federal programs also targeting poor,
marginalized population, including indigenous peoples.

Fiduciary. PEC involved a considerable level of financial management complexity,
including transfers from the Federal Government to state governments to schools, and the
related record-keeping and flow of financial information back from the schools, through
the states, to the project unit in PEC. It involved financial management of several
dispersed spending units with a large number of small transactions. Under the Project,
the Sistema de Información del Programa Escuelas de Calidad (SIPEC), which was
online and operational at the time of loan approval, was to be updated and expanded to
monitor and administer expenditures at the state level. . Almost from the start there were
issues with the roll out of SIPEC to states and schools, as described previously. Despite
the early agreement upon an Action Plan to improve financial management and
strengthened supervision by the Bank at the state level, efforts to roll-out SIPEC were
slow, and the Government proposed to allow states to use existing or develop new
school-based information systems. The development of an accreditation system for
individual state-level MIS was financed to ensure that these alternative systems ensured
minimum requirements with respect to school-based reporting.

Despite minor delays in the submission of project audits, the only issue raised in those
reports was that PEC continued to submit financial management reports with information
sent via parallel systems due to deficiencies in SIPEC.

Procurement under the Project was also relatively complex since it involved procurement
of small goods, works and training at the level of thousands of school units under the
supervision of the state education authorities. The procurement of these small items was
mostly through shopping or price quotations from local suppliers. Procurement proceeded
relatively smoothly. An in-depth procurement review carried out in 12 states by an
independent firm under the Project revealed that while PEC schools were complying with
the procedures outlined in the Project's Operational Manual, and that expenditures were
eligible for financing under the Project, some specific areas for improvement were




                                            12
highlighted. These were successfully addressed under an Action Plan that included
recommendations for technical assistance to schools on procurement guidelines.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As the first phase of a three-phase APL ends, the Government has finalized preparation
of Phase II for which a Bank loan of US$220 million was approved by the regional Vice
President on May 25, 2010 and received final approval on June 17, 2010. All of the
triggers specified for moving forward with the APL's Phase II were met as presented in
Table 1 below:

 Table 1: Status of Triggers for Phase I and II of the School-Based Management Program
                    Trigger                                    Status in 2009
Number of schools participating in the Program Exceeded. The number of schools in PEC has
will increase by 50 percent                    increased by 84 percent, from 21,312 (2005/06)
                                               to 39,180 (2008/09)
Program schools as a percentage of all public  Exceeded. In 2009, 18 percent of public basic
basic education schools will increase to 15    education schools have participated in PEC.
percent
Completion of baseline data collection for     Met. PEC carried out a baseline survey.
impact evaluation
Government approval of the Program             Met. The Government, through SEP, has
expansion plan with specific targets for       approved the plan with targets to expand school
expansion                                      coverage and learning achievements, among
                                               others.

The main challenges learned from the implementation of Phase I have been addressed in
the design of Phase II, including those relating to: (i) the monitoring system; (ii) social
participation; and (iii) coordination with other Government programs. Specifically, with
respect to monitoring, Phase II will support states in developing their own monitoring
systems compatible with SIPEC instead of requiring them to utilize SIPEC as a
requirement for receiving federal funding. With respect to social participation, Phase II
will support improvements in mobilizing social participation in decision-making by
introducing a simplified school planning instrument accompanied by extra training of
school directors and parents, thereby addressing the Program's main criticisms: that it is
too complex for many school communities and that social participation is lagging.
Finally, Phase II will play a greater role in coordinating different federal government
programs at the basic education level, including Oportunidades (a conditional cash
transfer program) and CONAFE (which operates a national compensatory education
program). In addition, as originally planned, Phase II will support the carrying out of an
impact evaluation of the Program, building on the data that was made available under
Phase I.

Building upon these lessons, Phase II of the APL for Mexico's School-Based
Management Program will support the expansion of Program coverage from about
40,000 to 50,000 schools, focusing especially on the most disadvantaged schools in low-
income areas, putting greater emphasis on marginalized schools and on the indigenous



                                             13
population, as well as reorient a significant portion of the school grants to improve
schools' internal efficiency and learning outcomes. Phase II would also support pilots to
identify, design and develop adjustments to adapt the Program for further expansion to
schools serving small disadvantaged communities in semi-urban and non-urban areas. In
addition, it would introduce a simplified school planning instrument (PETE-Formato
Concentrador or PETE-Condensed) accompanied by extra training of school directors
and parents, which would address the Program's two main criticisms described above.
The Oportunidades program will support PEC's efforts in the poorest areas. Finally, PEC
will change its Operating Rules to ensure that a larger share of school grants are used to
acquire education inputs rather than infrastructure, and to better link PEC with other
education programs.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project's objectives continue to be highly relevant to the Government and to the
Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico4. Both the Government's Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012 (NDP, National Development Plan 2007-2012) and
the Bank's CPS prioritize comprehensive assistance to efforts to promote social inclusion
and to reduce poverty5. The Government's NDP endorses the Program, and its expansion,
under the objective of "Promoting Social Inclusion and Reducing Poverty". The
Government's education sector program specifically calls for greater community
participation in education.

The Project's design and implementation, with a strong bottom-up and participatory
approach, through which Bank assistance and support is provided through an APL
continues to be relevant for the reasons described in Section 2.1. The Government and the
Bank finalized the preparation for Phase II of the APL Program with a US$220 loan. As
expected when the APL was designed, this phased approach to project has served the
Program well in that Phase II already incorporates several lessons learned during Phase I
through adjustments to the PEC's design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Through the implementation of its three components, the Project made important
progress towards the achievement of its specified outcome indicators and targets and
intermediate results as presented in the PAD's Results Framework.



4
 World Bank Group, Country Partnership Strategy for Mexico, Report No. 42846-MX dated March 4,
2008.

5
    Poder Ejecutivo Federal (2007), Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, 2007-2012.



                                                    14
Number of schools participating in PEC as a percentage of the total number of basic
education schools. In 2005/06, 21,500 basic education schools, or 10.3 percent of the
total number of such schools in Mexico participated in PEC. By 2009, the Project
supported 40,790 basic education schools, representing 20 percent of the total basic
education schools. Of these, 27,974, almost 69 percent of PEC schools, were located in
areas of medium, high and very high marginalization.

This result was achieved through the various activities that SEP implemented under the
Project to disseminate the Program, to provide school grants through the institutional
procedures for the Program, and to support AEEs in the Program's implementation
(Annex 2).

Participation by communities in the planning, accountability and decision making at the
school level increased steadily under the Project. With respect to the school planning
processes, at the time of appraisal, only 62 percent of community members in PEC
schools knew what their respective PETE was, and only 51 percent had actually
participated in the design or adjustment of the PETE. By project completion, those
figures had increased, based on the evaluation of social participation in PEC, to 76.8
percent and 74.2 percent respectively. Similarly, indicators of PEC's accountability
within communities showed steady albeit smaller increases. At the time of appraisal, 96
percent of community members observed that parents were informed about student
performance, and 82.8 percent of community members observed participatory decision-
making among parents, teachers and principals about school affairs. By project
completion, the respective figures had increased to 99 percent and 90.2 percent,
respectively.

The Project was less successful in promoting perceived improvements in teachers'
pedagogical skills in PEC schools, although there is some question regarding the baseline
of this intermediate results indicator and the consistency of its application over the
period, especially given the relatively large decline in community members'
observations. A total of 95 percent of community members observed teachers
encouraging and supporting student performance at the time of appraisal, but this had
dropped to 72 percent at completion. Similarly, a somewhat correlated indicator,
percentage of community members that observe teachers encouraging the active
participation of the students, dropped from 93 percent at appraisal to 66.9 percent at
completion.

Scores in Enlace (achievement test at national level) have been increasing faster in PEC
schools than in non-PEC schools, which is clear evidence that the program has been
impacting in learning quality.

Commitment to the goals and activities of the PETE as expressed by local financial
contributions to the schools. Progress towards achievement of this outcome was
significantly lower than expected, as measured by this indicator. At appraisal, a total of
MX$30,168 was mobilized per participating school; this figure dropped significantly to
MX$8,170 (based on partial data) at project completion. In retrospect, this indicator was



                                           15
problematic. First, its baseline was established on the basis of contributions from a total
of schools under what was then a much smaller Program. As the Program expanded
rapidly to a large number of schools, including a large number of smaller schools in more
marginalized areas, it would have been nearly impossible to maintain the average level of
contribution per school. With smaller schools, fewer total school contributions should
have been expected, and with more schools, the denominator increased rapidly.
Furthermore it is likely that the economic downturn that has affected Mexico and led to a
6.8 percent contraction in GDP in 2009, undoubtedly affected families' disposable
income, in the aggregate, thereby reducing their ability to make contributions to their
child's school.

Because of the problems with its formulation, this indicator has been replaced for Phase
II by the following: commitment to the goals and activities of the PETE as expressed by
parental participation in PETE design or adjustment (as a percentage of total parents). By
using this revised indicator as a proxy for community commitment to the goals and
activities of the PETE, it is clear that the Project was successful in meeting the objective
of increased community involvement. As described above, the Project was very
successful in increasing community participation in both school planning and
accountability in decision-making.

3.3 Efficiency

An economic analysis was not prepared in the context of this ICR. Being a three-phase
APL for an important and innovative program that will represent a long-term
commitment to school-based management, a full economic analysis should most likely be
prepared for the ICR of the final phase.

The Project's ex-ante economic analysis in the PAD justified the Project's viability on
the basis of expected school and out-of-school benefits to be generated by the Project,
most importantly, improvements in community participation measured by the amount of
funds contributed by the school community to the Program, and efficiency gains or
savings that would accrue to the education system as a result of lower repetition and
dropout rates produced by the Program. On the cost side, the analysis noted that the
Program would become more cost-effective because public unit costs per student would
decrease.

Local financial contributions to the schools actually decreased in the first phase, although
the expectation that these might increase concomitantly with the Program's expansion to
marginal areas in retrospect was optimistic. It is too early to evaluate possible efficiency
gains due to lower repetition and dropout rates produced by the Project. Still, several
recent studies reveal promising results on PEC's impact. A study by Shapiro and
Skoufias (2005) found that participation in PEC reduced dropout rates (by 0.24
percentage points), failure rates (by 0.24 percentage points) and repetition rates (by 0.31
percentage points)6. A second evaluation conducted by Murnane et al (2006) found that

6
 Shapiro, J., and E. Skoufias. 2005. "The Pitfalls of Evaluating a School Grants Program Using
Nonexperimental Data." Mimeo, World Bank.


                                             16
PEC lowered dropout rates, but not failure rates.7 Studies of other school-based programs
in Mexico8 have found that they improve school participation and communication,
motivate teachers, reduce teacher absenteeism, and increase student attendance and
parents' participation.

 Early indications are that, over time, PEC, and the early stages of the Program that the
Project supported, will lead to increased efficiency in the delivery of quality education
programs in Mexico.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project's Overall Outcome Rating is considered Satisfactory. This rating is based on
the Project's and the Program's continued high relevance to the Government and to the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project was national in scope and did not focus its efforts exclusively on states with
higher levels of poverty. Rather, its design recognized that disadvantaged schools and
students exist in every state, including in urban areas, and that high performing schools
exist even in poor states. The Project adopted a bottom-up approach that empowered the
school communities to determine whether or not to opt to participate in the Program.
This was an articulated position, presented during preparation, where a specific decision
regarding whether to focus exclusively on rural and disadvantaged schools was decided
based on several factors, including that those schools were supported by Mexico's
compensatory education program and that indigenous students existed in urban areas The
Project would serve to fine tune the Program's approach and pilot its expansion to more
disadvantaged schools in subsequent phases of the APL.

While PEC has made a strong effort to reach poor schools through its focus on targeting,
it did not directly address the issue of equity during Phase I. A total of 68.58 percent of
PEC schools are in highly marginalized or marginalized localities compared to 77.37
percent of schools as a whole. Likewise, 31.42 percent of PEC schools are located in
areas with low or very low levels of marginalization, compared to 22.63 percent of all
schools. However, when analyzing this data on a per-student (as opposed to school)
basis, the distribution of students in PEC and non-PEC schools becomes quite similar


7
  Murnane, R. J., J. B. Willet, and S. Cardenas, 2006. "Did Participation of Schools in Programa Escuelas
de Calidad (PEC) Influence Student Outcomes?" Working Paper, Harvard University Graduate School of
Education, Cambridge, MA.
8
  The School Management Support Program (Apoyo a la Gestión Escolar, AGE), created in 1996, similar
in design to PEC but focusing on smaller rural schools and operating through Parents' Associations.


                                                   17
because schools in poor areas tend to be substantially smaller than schools in other areas,
reducing concerns about equity.

Although the Project did not specifically target the indigenous, it exceeded the goals
specified in the IPDP. At the time PEC was launched in 2001, there were only 27
indigenous centers (schools with 70 percent or more of indigenous students) participating
in the Program, out of a total of 2,240 PEC schools. The IPDP aimed that the PEC's
indigenous centers would comprise 4 percent of PEC schools. By 2009, PEC covered a
total of 40,790 schools, of which 2,950 were indigenous centers, equivalent to seven
percent of the total PEC schools.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

PEC was an established program that was launched five years before the appraisal. The
staff of SEP that is directly involved with managing the Program have acquired
significant experience in its overall administration, which is based on established
procedures. PEC's Operating Rules, which are issued annually by SEP and published in
the Government's Diario Oficial (the official gazette), govern the Program's
implementation activities, including the eligibility and selection criteria for schools to
enter the Program. PEC funds are allocated to the states, under a transparent formula
matching the amount of funds provided by states at a rate of three-to-one. The AEEs
have also developed capacities, at varying levels, to disseminate the program, provide
technical assistance to schools for preparation of their PETEs, analyze the proposals
received and select the schools that will participate. These processes are set out in the
form of an established government program, and with a sound institutional backing to
support the Program's implementation in Mexico's federal structure, and through schools
and communities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There were no unintended outcomes and impacts associated with the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There were no specific beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops commissioned
under the Project, however PEC does monitor parent participation in the Program. In
2009, 77 percent of parents in PEC schools are aware of the PETE. Around 70 percent of
parents have observed that teachers are actively engaging the participation of students in
the school.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible

The Risk to Development Outcome for the Project is considered Negligible. There is
continued strong support to the Project and the Program at all levels within Mexico: the


                                               18
Federal Government, the State Governments and local communities. At the federal level,
the Government continues to prioritize the importance of school-based management as a
means to improve the quality of education. This public awareness has been a decisive
factor for the support provided at all levels for the operation of the Program. Beneficiary
ownership has been growing rapidly, as the demand from schools to participate in the
Program has increased steadily. The institutional arrangements for the Project and the
Program's continued operation are in place, and are expected to continue with the Bank's
financial and advisory support for their strengthening and refinement in the context of
Phase II of the APL. Finally, despite a severe economic slowdown, the Government has
protected the budget of the education sector. The 2010 Federal Budget shows that the
education sector (in particular, PEC) is spared from cuts that have affected other sectors.
Once early results of what are expected to be significant impacts on learning outcomes
become available, support for the Project, and the Program more broadly should only
continue to strengthen.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance


(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
The Project's preparation counted on extensive analytical work, the incorporation of
lessons learned from the implementation of several school-based management projects in
countries in Latin America and elsewhere, a carefully selected lending instrument, and
tailoring the objectives of the APL Program's three phases for which especially the
Project could be held accountable. The Project's implementation arrangements were
challenging due to the national focus of the Project. Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements were also carefully planned and staged so that the APL Program will
develop an impact evaluation before its completion.

One issue in the Project's design had not been contemplated was the large financing for
school grants in the first six months of the project with nearly half of the loan had been
disbursed by mid-2007. Loan disbursements were out of sync with the PEC's capacity to
monitor and evaluate the Project's progress. The definition of the Project's outcome
indicator related to commitment to the goals and activities of the PETE, using as a proxy
the amount of local financial contributions, were not realistic especially given the
Project's goal to increase its focus on poorer schools.



(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.



                                            19
The Bank's Quality of Supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank's supervision effort
was focused on keeping the Project on track. Supervision was steady, responsive and
pragmatic, and supervision reporting was candid, identifying issues as they arose. The
Bank quickly identified the issue that upon effectiveness, disbursements were out-pacing
PEC's ability to monitor progress, and worked closely with the project unit and SHCP to
slow down disbursements for school grants while agreeing upon changes internally in
PEC's management structure and a plan to bring monitoring back on track in an
accelerated manner.

Similarly, when it became clear that many states were not able to adopt SIPEC, the Bank
sought, and achieved a pragmatic solution in a manner that responded appropriately to the
Bank's fiduciary responsibilities. More importantly, however, Bank supervision was
forward looking while never losing track of learning from experience. The Bank
supervision made both small and large adjustments in the Program's design to ensure that
the Project would come to a satisfactory conclusion and that the APL Program as a whole
would as well. The supervision team carried forward these lessons into the design of
Phase II of the APL.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory based on similar ratings for Ensuring
Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government's Performance is rated Satisfactory. The Government displayed
commitment to the Program and the Project, and to their objectives. The overall enabling
environment was supportive, both institutionally, and in terms of financial allocations to
the Project and the Program. As mentioned in Section 4 above, despite serious fiscal
constraints, the Government has protected the budget allocation to the education sector as
a whole and to the Program in particular, and is proceeding with original plans to
gradually expand the number of PEC schools.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Implementing Agencies' Performance is rated Satisfactory. In this respect,
implementing agencies is taken to mean SEP, and specifically SEP's staff directly
managing the Program, as well as at the state level, the AEEs, and individual schools.


                                           20
For SEP, the challenge of working with the AEEs, which in turn worked through
thousands of schools, each with widely varying institutional capacity was formidable.
Throughout, SEP remained committed to the Project's and the Program's objectives,
despite some initial delays in getting things underway and on track, especially financial
management and monitoring activities. When supervision missions identified these
issues, the team in SEP invariably worked to address identified issues, and subsequent
missions were generally reporting progress. As had been planned given the Program's
decentralized     implementation,       throughout,   SEP     carried    out      several
beneficiary/stakeholder consultations to obtain their feedback and perceptions of PEC.
SEP staff responsible for PEC worked continuously in the transition from Phase I to
Phase II of the APL Program. States demonstrated varying capacity for implementation,
especially with respect to fiduciary aspects such as financial management and
procurement. These issues did not in the end affect project outcomes, but have been
taken into consideration in the design of Phase II.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory based on the ratings for
Government Performance and the Implementing Agencies' Performance


6. Lessons Learned

Project-Specific Lessons Learned. There are several project-specific lessons learned that
have been incorporated into the design of Phase II of the APL. These are:

   ¾ Top-down solutions are often inefficient and do not work on the ground.
     This was a central observation made during the Program's design, based on the
     international literature. However, some elements of PEC were still top-down and
     did not work well. One clear example was PEC's information system, SIPEC,
     which was developed centrally. For Phase II, PEC is developing a more flexible
     information system that will respond to the Program's broader information needs,
     while being more responsive to the varying capabilities of states and schools,
     allowing them to customize their own information systems within a general
     framework.

   ¾ Targeting is complicated, given the multiple objectives of PEC and political
     realities. PEC has a transparent formula that allocates resources across states on
     a per capita basis using the total number of children between the ages of 4 and 14.
     As a result, well-off states effectively receive a higher allocation of resources for
     their poor population while poorer states receive fewer resources for their poor
     students. The Government and the Bank are working to adjust the targeting of
     resources both at the federal level (improving equity) and at the state level
     (ensuring that disadvantaged schools are more likely to participate).



                                           21
   ¾ Creating legal autonomy does not automatically lead to changes in school
     management. By law, community participation plays a role in all public schools
     in Mexico. PEC was designed to empower communities to carry out this
     responsibility effectively. However, qualitative studies and the Bank's
     observation show that community participation has been mixed. In many cases,
     the school director effectively runs PEC with community members often playing
     a passive or consultative role. The studies found that in many cases community
     participation existed in paper but not in reality. Real community participation
     requires cultural changes, incentives, and capacity building. Phase II will support
     enhanced capacity building for school directors and community groups and will
     more actively promote greater social participation.

Broader Lessons Learned. There are also several broader lessons learned with respect to
the design and implementation of the Project that apply equally to other projects,
although some of these may sound redundant.

   ¾ Government commitment to the implementation of a Project or Program is
     perhaps the best indicator of its overall success.

   ¾ An APL is a useful instrument to support implementation of a government
     program where a long-term involvement may be necessary to produce
     expected outcomes. It is important when designing an APL to build in the
     processes and methods by which the program's and the APL's expected outcomes
     will be measured over the longer term, while cautiously defining only those
     outputs and indicators by which the progress of earlier phases can realistically be
     measured. Also, the APL instrument is well suited to the needs of programs in
     early stages of development and establishment where it is important to
     incorporate the lessons of earlier phases and implementation into the design of the
     program through minor adjustments.

   ¾ When designing projects and corresponding Bank loans with both relatively
     fast disbursing components and slower technical assistance type activities, it
     is desirable to build in mechanisms that pace the disbursements of fast
     disbursing components to progress in the implementation of technical
     assistance for institutional strengthening type activities. This is especially
     important in the case of projects where there was a large amount of financing that
     disbursed shortly after effectiveness. One possibility would be to build
     milestones into the disbursement of fast disbursing activities that would pace
     disbursements for those activities reflecting progress with implementation of
     technical assistance or specific institutional outputs or actions.

   ¾ When supervising projects it is important to be pragmatic and not lose sight
     of the broad objectives. When it became clear that the SIPEC was too complex
     for implementation in several states and schools, Bank supervision immediately
     stood back and identified the next best solution with which the same objective,



                                          22
       (i.e., establishment of a monitoring system) could be accomplished. Progress
       towards the objective was accomplished, but the specific process or instrument
       through which it is accomplished is different than originally planned, adjusted to
       meet institutional realities and needs, albeit no less responsive to the original
       objective.

   ¾ Care is needed in the design of a project's monitoring framework and
     indicators to avoid individual indicators that are not feasible given the
     changes brought about by the Project. For example, the project has two main
     indicators: (i) number of schools participating in PEC as a percentage of the total
     number of basic education schools, and (ii) commitment to the goals of the PETE
     as expressed by local financial contribution to the schools conflicted. As PEC
     expanded, and increased the number of schools into marginalized areas, family
     contributions actually went down, impacting the achievement of the latter
     indicator. This indicator, in and of itself, is also likely subject to exogenous
     factors, not the least of which is the downturn in the economy that undoubtedly
     affected families' ability to increase or even maintain a fixed level of contribution
     to their children's' schools.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The implementing agency, PEC, has prepared comments on the World Bank's financing
for this Implementation Completion Report. A copy of this letter with a translation is
contained in Annex 7 of this ICR.

PEC was grateful for the support that it has received from the World Bank, which has
helped to improve the impact and the financial management of the program. PEC is one
of the leading federal education programs and its relationship with the Bank has
strengthened its position within Mexico.

The Bank has played an important role in improving PEC's financial management. The
initial high level of disbursement can be explained the nature of the school grants that can
be claimed and disbursed much faster than the Bank had originally planned. At the same,
the original design of an information system (SISPEC) was not realistic and the second
phase of the Program will be more flexible. Likewise, the initial proposal for evaluation
was felt to be unrealistic given government rules and capacity.




(b) Cofinanciers




                                            23
The World Bank was the only external financier involved with the implementation of
PEC.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

No additional comments received.




                                       24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


The Project supported three components, with both Government and IBRD financing.
Component 1, School Grants, is the center of PEC and accounted for an estimated 93.8
percent of the project cost and 97.7 percent of IBRD financing. Component 2, Project
Oversight, accounts for 4.4 percent of the project cost and was to be entirely financed by
the Government. Component 3, Monitoring and Evaluation, accounted for 1.7 percent of
the total cost of the project.

Following standard procedures in Mexico, the IBRD loan did not provide any additional
financing to the Mexican budget. PEC authorities only tracked IBRD spending on project
activities and this is reflected in Table 1. Component 2 was fully implemented by the
Government with an adequate budget.

The main difference between the appraised estimates and actual budgeted amount is in
component 3.1, which was originally budgeted for US$ 4.23 million. A baseline survey
was carried out at a cost of $80,000. The remaining resources were reallocated to
Component 1.

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                   Total Cost in   Total IBRD Cost in      Actual IBRD        Actual IBRD as
          Components                 Appraisal         Appraisal             financing         percentage of
                                   (US$ million)     (US$ million)         (US$ million)     appraisal amount
School Grants                             324.70           234.49                238.75          101.82%
Program Monitoring and                                       0.00
                                           15.15                                  0.00             n/a
Oversight
Policy Development and                                      4.91
                                            5.80                                  0.65           13.24%
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                       345.65          239.40                 239.40           100%
Physical Contingencies                      0.00            0.00                   0.00            n/a
Price Contingencies                         0.00            0.00                   0.00            n/a
Total Project Costs                       345.65          239.40                 239.40           100%
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00            0.00                   0.00            n/a/
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.60            0.60                   0.60           100%
Total Financing Required                  346.25          240.00                 240.00           100%

(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal
                                            Type of                        Actual     Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                  (USD millions) Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions)
 Borrower                                               106.25         n/a           n/a
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        240.00          240.00        100%
and Development




                                                   25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The following table outlines the activities and outputs by component during the Project.

Intermediate Results                                   Target                                        Actual
Component 1, School Grants
Increased community                71% of community members know PETE               79.7% of community members know
participation, planning and                                                         PETE
accountability in the decision-    60% of community members participate in the
making at school                   design or adjustment of PETE                     66.9% of community members participate
                                                                                    in the design or adjust of PETE
                                   96% of community members observe that
                                   parents are informed about student performance   98.4% of community members observe
                                                                                    that parents are informed about student
                                   87.7% of community members observe               performance
                                   participatory decision-making between parents,
                                   teachers, and principal about school affairs     92.6% of community members observe
                                                                                    participatory decision-making between
                                                                                    parents, teachers, and principal about
                                                                                    school affairs


Improved teacher's pedagogical     95% of community members observe teachers        97.4% of community members observe
skills in PEC schools              encouraging and supporting student performance   teachers encouraging and supporting
                                                                                    student performance
                                   93% of community members observe teachers
                                   encouraging the active participation of the      97.4% of community members observe
                                   students                                         teachers encouraging the active
                                                                                    participation of the students
Improved access for schools in     9,450 PEC schools located in areas of medium,    27,974 PEC schools located in areas of
low income areas to actions that   high, and very high marginalization levels (by   medium, high, and very high
strengthen School Based            2005)                                            marginalization levels (by 2009)
Management

Component 2, Program Monitoring and Oversight
Improved and more efficient PEC    80% of states (25 states) report on time the     15 states report on time the information of
operation                          information of the Program through SIPEC         the Program through SIPEC

Component 3, Policy Development and Evaluation
Improvement in the quality of      Baseline for impact evaluation completed         Baseline for impact evaluation completed
PEC evaluations
                                   1 study per year                                 Numerous studies of different types
                                                                                    (technical, legal, administrative) were
                                                                                    carried out by PEC with IBRD support




                                                        26
The table below provides information on the number of schools participating in the PEC
and the total spending on PEC per state, in Mexican pesos.

                                                                                             Average
                  No of                                                Average
                            No of    No of PEC     Total Amount                    No of      School
   Federal        Total                                                 School
                            PEC      schools in      of School                     PEC       Grant per
   Entity         Basic                                                 Grant
                           schools   poor areas       Grants                     students     student
                 Schools                                               (MX$)
                                                                                              (MX$ )
Aguascalientes     1,489      360           128          18,359,131     50,998     63,562        288.84
Baja
                   2,954    1,022           424          44,437,084     43,481    205,141       216.62
California
Baja
                     882      330           134          20,581,750     62,369     60,995       337.43
California Sur
Campeche           1,756      401           354          23,703,326     59,111     69,245       342.31
Coahuila           3,845      848           341          33,590,716     39,612    194,852       172.39
Colima               977      102            60          10,269,905    100,685     22,262       461.32
Chiapas           17,350      826           810          28,500,000     34,504    122,606       232.45
Chihuahua          5,487    1,062           464          44,751,576     42,139    224,477       199.36
Distrito
                   4,660    2,368           657         146,139,469     61,714    788,683       185.30
Federal
Durango            5,219    1,614           941          27,115,387     16,800     180,698      150.06
Guanajuato         9,704    2,253         1,820          79,052,373     35,088     276,939      285.45
Guerrero          10,348    2,460         2,352         106,175,191     43,161     272,524      389.60
Hidalgo            7,196      947           737          37,224,906     39,308     146,759      253.65
Jalisco           11,453    1,928         1,201          97,441,093     50,540     314,958      309.38
México            15,662    5,526         4,318         205,471,014     37,183   1,055,571      194.65
Michoacán         10,440    2,482         2,026         116,898,561     47,099     277,395      421.42
Morelos            1,972      400           299          33,074,267     82,686      71,450      462.90
Nayarit            2,757      351           194          14,341,503     40,859      59,040      242.91
Nuevo León         5,601    2,107           754          76,482,362     36,299     349,226      219.01
Oaxaca            11,938    1,475         1,440          63,043,938     42,742     124,507      506.35
Puebla            10,091    2,326         2,233          84,726,452     36,426     264,097      320.82
Querétaro          2,941      545           431          27,253,782     50,007      89,380      304.92
Quintana Roo       1,579      332           263          20,196,546     60,833      68,475      294.95
San Luis
                   7,674      672           560          38,597,242     57,436    111,367       346.58
Potosí
Sinaloa            5,902    1,635           786          51,128,050     31,271    294,644       173.52
Sonora             3,838    1,547           822          61,055,430     39,467    263,586       231.63
Tabasco            4,798      634           481          34,055,766     53,716     97,080       350.80
Tamaulipas         4,819    1,610           829          98,124,740     60,947    345,678       283.86
Tlaxcala           1,713      400           319          23,026,176     57,565     84,625       272.10
Veracruz-
                  19,560    1,026           888          45,446,404     44,295    141,933       320.20
Llave
Yucatán            2,767      743           631           25,910,079    34,872     140,963      183.81
Zacatecas          4,799      458           277           27,187,488    59,361      65,306      416.31
TOTAL            202,171   40,790        27,974        1,763,361,707    43,230   6,848,024      257.50



                                                  27
28
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
             Names                            Title               Unit

Erik A. Bloom                  Senior Economist                  LCSHE
Ricardo Rocha Silveira         Senior Operations Officer         HDNGA
Maria E. Castro-Munoz          Sr. Social Scientist              LCSSO
Maria E. Colchao               Senior Program Assistant          LCSHE
Isy Faingold Vigil             E T Consultant                    LCSHE
Ruben Fernandez Garcia         Temporary                         LCC1C
Vicente A. Garcia Moreno       Consultant                        LCSHE
Alina Garduno Lozano           Temporary                         LCSHD
Dmitri Gourfinkel              Financial Management Analyst      LCSFM
Mark V. Hagerstrom             Lead Operations Officer           LCC1C
Martha Belem Hernandez         Junior Professional Associate     LCSHD
Peter Anthony Holland          Education Spec.                   LCSHE
Efraim Jimenez                 Consultant                        EAPCO
Claudia Macias                 Operations Officer                LCSHH
Mauricio Ondarreta Huerta      Consultant                        LCSHE
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde    Financial Management Specialist   CTRLP
Harry Anthony Patrinos         Lead Education Economist          HDNED
Gabriel Penaloza               Procurement Analyst               LCSPT
Anna Maria Sant'Anna           Consultant                        LCSHE
Juan Carlos Serrano-Machorro   Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Emmanuel Skoufias              Lead Economist                    PRMPR
Sandra Monica Tambucho Perez   Team Leader                       CTRDM
Miguel Angel Vargas            Consultant                        LCSHE
Mary A. Dowling                Program Assistant                 LCSHE




                                         29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      46                       158.36
  FY06                                      47                       174.89
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            93                       333.25
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                    13                          53.19
  FY07                                    29                         143.47
  FY08                                    26                         124.09
  FY09                                    37                           0.00
                          Total:         105                         320.75




                                       30
Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      31
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   32
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Informal translation of Borrower's comments (Letter dated June 15, 2010)


Dr. Evangeline Javier
Director
Human Development Department
Latin American Region
The World Bank

               Ref: Quality Schools Program (PEC) - Phase I - 73 470 Loan - ME
               Government's comments on Phase I


We would like to offer some comments on the School-Based Management Project (PEC)
which was approved on December 13, 2005 and was declared effective on November 17,
2006. This World Bank's project provided financial and technical support to PEC, which
the Federal Government of Mexico established in 2001 with the aim of transforming
Mexican schools through improved decision-making process, among other benefits. This
positions PEC as an international example of improving the quality of education.

In general, we are pleased to have worked with the World Bank during the project
implementation. During the execution of the Loan, the program has shown its impact on
beneficiaries, which generates a positive impact on basic education in Mexico. The
World Bank has been a key partner in this operation, supporting the PEC team in its
efforts to improve program and financial management. At the same time, the Government
and the World Bank have worked together to improve the equity of the program's impact.
The Government and the Bank identified potential activities to improve equity in
resources distribution and are making efforts in that direction. This does not necessarily
require distributing more resources to poorer states, but a redistribution of resources
within each state.

An important issue in the relationship between the World Bank and PEC is the area of
financial management (FM). It was not easy to meet simultaneously with the
requirements of the federal law and the World Bank regulations. Obviously, each state
has a different situation and capacity; however, Bank supervision found in PEC financial
management the capacity to obtain the required financial information. Disbursements
under Category 1 (transfers to schools), because of their characteristics, are susceptible to
rapid disbursement, which impacts the amount allocated to Loan's Category 1. Thus the
Bank initially found a level of disbursement than expected. The Government and the
World Bank worked together to streamline disbursements over the remaining term of the
project.

We consider that the transfers to state governments and from them to the schools are
appropriate and that adequate financial information has been collected. The complexity



                                             33
lies in obtaining the information records from schools to the states and to transfer them to
PEC National Coordination. Originally, a single information system (SIPEC) was
proposed to coordinate all the information on PEC. For the second phase, it was agreed
that states may use or develop their own monitoring and information systems that are
consistent with Federal Government requirements and PEC will provide the necessary
assistance to those states that want to develop their own information system. Those that
do not choose this option will use the system proposed by PEC National Coordination.

In original proposal from the first phase was to develop an ambitious and rigorous
evaluation for PEC. In our opinion, this proposal did not take into account the
Government's capacity and resources nor the public sector's administrative requirements.
That caused a delay in the implementation of the evaluation that was not expected in the
PAD. However, the Government is committed to undertake the PEC's "Impact
Evaluation", which is expected to be accomplished during Phase II. During Phase I the
collection of the baseline was started.

The program's efforts will only be successful with the participation of all educational
stakeholders, including the parents, who are key allies in the implementation of the
program. Hence, the Social Participation School Councils are crucial for the project. It is
important to highlight the existence of the Annual Work Program (PAT), which is
complementary to the PETEs and allows the annual review of actions implemented by
The school.

I take this opportunity to send a cordial greeting.

Best Regards.


ENGINEER DANIEL HERNANDEZ
NATIONAL COORDINATOR
Quality Schools Program




                                             34
35
36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Garcia, V., Knaul, F. and Patrinos, H.A., Returns to Education and Quality of Education
in Mexico, 2005, World Bank (Processed).

Murnane, R. J., J. B. Willet, and S. Cardenas, 2006. "Did Participation of Schools in
Programa Escuelas de Calidad (PEC) Influence Student Outcomes?" Working Paper,
Harvard University Graduate School of Education, Cambridge, MA.

Shapiro, J., and E. Skoufias. 2005. "The Pitfalls of Evaluating a School Grants Program
Using Nonexperimental Data." Mimeo, World Bank.

World Bank (2005). Determinants of Learning Policy Note. Latin America and the
Caribbean Region, Human Development Department.

World Bank Group, Country Partnership Strategy for Mexico, CAS Report No. 42846-
MX, March 4, 2008.




                                           37
38
