Mexico: Strengthening the Contribution of Education in the Knowledge Economy
                                                                                                            96092
                                                                                                           October 25, 2010



 EDUCATION

 Strengthening the Contribution of Education
 in the Knowledge Economy




Overview
Since 1990, Mexico has achieved universal primary education and gender equality, meeting
the education-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as well as focusing on improving
quality and relevance. Through International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
lending and knowledge services, Mexico has provided scholarships and school grants,
supported education assessment and secondary reform, leading to increased performance on
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Programme for
International Student Assessment (PISA).

  Full Brief—4 Pages
Mexico Education: Stregnthening the Contribution of Education in theKnowledge Economy—
PDF, Sept 2010


Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
Coverage at the primary and lower secondary                Video: Reforma Integral de la Educación Media
education levels is essentially universal, with 98         Superior
percent and 88 percent respectively and no
gender imbalance. Educated workers are
increasingly in demand and are a bottleneck in many
sectors. Unless Mexico can increase the quantity and quality            More Results
of upper secondary education (USE) and higher education
graduates, it will fall behind international competitors. The
enrollment in USE is high (98 percent of lower secondary
graduates enroll), but the graduation rate is only 60 percent.
Education quality is a major concern at all levels and most
students do not meet minimum standards.
                                                                        39,000
                                                                       schools represented by
                                                                        expansion of the PEC school
                                                                        grant program from 21,000
Approach                                                                schools in 2006


The education sector accounts for a large percentage of


                                                                        120,000
public expenditure and the government has been quite
selective in choosing areas for IBRD intervention, focusing
on where it can have a positive impact taking advantage of
its strengths through its investment and knowledge products.            number of teachers who have
                                                                        received universal training
These areas include assessment and evaluation, community
participation, improved equity and inclusion, and policy
dialogue.
                                                                       MORE INFORMATION
One important area in the National Education Strategy is                 Country Website
promoting greater community participation in schools. The
                                                                     Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Bank has supported this objective, including the Program of          Educativo (sp)
Quality Schools (PEC) and Support to School Management
(AGE) that focus on disadvantaged schools. The Bank is               Country Brief
also supporting efforts to improve inclusion through better          Data
targeting of scholarships and an increased focus on
indigenous and disabled students.

In the past fifteen years, the World Bank has supported most     
areas of the education sector, with a strong focus on early
childhood development and rural education ( Compensatory
Education Project , 2010 for $100 million). Supporting school-based management has also
been a major area of Bank work ( School Based Management II , 2010 for $220 million). The
Bank is also supporting secondary education ( Upper Secondary Education DPL, 2010 for
$700 million) and higher education ( Tertiary Education for Student Assistance, 2005 for
$171 million).

Results

Through IBRD-financed projects and technical cooperation, the Bank has contributed to the
achievement of the following results:

      The creation of a targeted scholarship program for poor upper secondary students,
      focusing on students not covered by the Oportunidades Program, a Conditional Cash
      Transfer (CCT) program (mostly located in urban areas), to around 320,000 students in
      2009.

      The expansion of the PEC school grant program from 21,000 schools (2006) to 39,000
      schools (2009), representing 18 percent of basic education schools mostly in poor and
      very poor communities. The average school grant was MX$43,000 per school, benefiting
      a total of 6.8 million students. These grants have supported the purchase of school
      furniture, computers, basic maintenance and infrastructure, among others.

      The expansion of the AGE school grant program, covering 67,000 of the poorest
      schools and providing basic school supplies to around 5 million poor and indigenous
      students. School grants have largely focused on purchasing additional school supplies
      and basic maintenance.

      The introduction of an annual student assessment in the last year of upper secondary
      education in 2008 along with universal training of upper secondary teachers and school
      directors, focusing on improved teaching techniques, enhanced curriculum, and school
      leadership. To date, 120,000 teachers have received training with a goal of 240,000
      teachers by 2012.



Partners

IBRD, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and OECD are the major international
partners active in the education sector reform. All three institutions have worked closely to
coordinate their activities and to ensure complementarities. The federal government has played
a leading role in identifying interventions and supervising the activities of each agency. Mexico
also has a wide range of civil society and philanthropic organizations in the education sector.

Toward the Future

Mexico realizes that it must continue to focus on improving access and equity while increasing
the quality of the education system to remain competitive in a changing global environment.
The Bank will continue to participate strategically in the education sector through a
combination of knowledge products and policy dialogues, which will take advantage of the
Bank’s global experience and its convening authority. This dialogue will be complemented by
continuing IBRD-financed projects that support strategic interventions.
 

 
