Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3899 LE
                              Loan Agreement
              (Solid Waste/Environmental Management Project)
                                  between
                             LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated September 6, 1995
                                                           Loan No. 3899
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1995, between LEBANESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Council for
Development and Reconstruction (CDR) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to CDR the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the OVERSEAS
ECONOMIC COOPERATION FUND OF JAPAN (OECF) a loan (the OECF
Loan) in an amount equivalent to fifty-five million dollars
($55,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
CDR;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  modifications set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CDR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement;
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "CDR" means the Council for Development and
Reconstruction, a public authority established and operating
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 5 of the Borrower, dated
January 31, 1977, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (e)   "CDR's Basic Legislation" means Legislative Decree
No. 5 of the Borrower, dated January 31, 1977, as the same may
be amended from time to time, Decree No. 433 of the Borrower,
dated September 19, 1977, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and Decree No. 2981 of the Borrower, dated May 9,
1980, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (f)   "MMRA" means the Ministry of Municipal and Rural
Affairs of the Borrower;
      (g)   "Central Bank" means Banque du Liban, the Borrower's
central bank, established and operating pursuant to the Money
and Credit Law promulgated by Decree No. 13513 of the Borrower,
dated August 1, 1963, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
      (h)   "ERRP" means the Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3562 LE);
      (i)   "PMU" means the Program Management Unit established
within CDR pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of
Page  3
the Loan Agreement, entered into between the Borrower and the
Bank in connection with the ERRP, dated March 8, 1993, as
amended, whose responsibilities include, inter alia,
coordinating implementation of the ERRP with line ministries of
the Borrower;
      (j)   "Coastal Zone" means the entire coastal area of the
Borrower's territory;
      (k)   "Participating Municipality" means a municipality of
the Borrower, or association of municipalities established
pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 118 of the Borrower, dated
June 30, 1977, eligible to receive equipment, financed out of
the Loan proceeds allocated to Part A of the Project, on the
basis of the criteria provided for under Section 4 of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement; and
      (l)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be
established within MMRA pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.04 of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of fifty five million dollars
($55,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
Page  4
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
                (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                      ending on the date immediately preceding
                      each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                      Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                      Period in which this Agreement is signed.
               (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
                      cost, as reasonably determined by the Bank
                      and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
                      the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn
                      down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                      borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank
                      has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
                      investments; and (B) loans which may be made
                      by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                      interest rates determined otherwise than as
                      provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
              (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                      second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
    amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
    time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
    Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each
    of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
    the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
    amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
    calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest
    Period."
          "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
    Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
    Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
    commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
    calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.08. CDR is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause CDR to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CDR
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CDR to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
Page  5
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall make available as a grant to CDR the
proceeds of the Loan under a subsidiary agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CDR, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by CDR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December
31, 1995, establish, and thereafter maintain, PCU within MMRA,
with members whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be acceptable to the Bank, to provide
assistance to CDR and the Participating Municipalities in
carrying out their respective Project implementation functions.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                      accordance with sound accounting practices,
                      records and accounts reflecting such
                      expenditures;
               (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                      invoices, bills, receipts and other
                      documents) evidencing such expenditures are
                      retained until at least one year after the
                      Bank has received the audit report for the
                      fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                      from the Loan Account was made; and
              (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                      such records.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
                (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                      paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those
                      for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                      audited, in accordance with appropriate
                      auditing principles consistently applied, by
                      independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
               (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
                      but in any case not later than nine (9)
                      months after the end of each such year the
Page  6
                      report of such audit by said auditors, of
                      such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                      shall have reasonably requested, including a
                      separate opinion by said auditors as to
                      whether the statements of expenditure
                      submitted during such fiscal year, together
                      with the procedures and internal controls
                      involved in their preparation, can be relied
                      upon to support the related withdrawals; and
              (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                      concerning said records and accounts and the
                      audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                      time reasonably request.
    Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that each
Participating Municipality shall, not later than one year after
the date upon which the Participating Municipality shall have
commenced the provision of solid waste collection and disposal
services, have (i) established a system, acceptable to the
Bank, designed to gradually recover the costs to the
Participating Municipality of collecting solid waste and
disposing thereof; and (ii) commenced collection of solid waste
charges in accordance therewith.
    Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
on its part to enable CDR to carry out those obligations of CDR
provided for under Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   CDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that CDR will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   CDR's Basic Legislation shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of CDR to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of CDR or for the suspension of its
operations.
    (e)   The OECF Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by March 31, 1996 or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
    (f)   (i)   Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                      proceeds of the OECF loan made to the
                      Borrower for the financing of the Project
                      shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                      terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                      the terms of the agreement providing
                      therefor, or
Page  7
                      (B)   The OECF loan shall have become due and
                            payable prior to the agreed maturity
                            thereof.
                (ii)  Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall
                      not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                      satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                      suspension, cancellation, termination or
                      prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                      the Borrower to perform any of its
                      obligations under such agreement; and (B)
                      adequate funds for the Project are available
                      to the Borrower from other sources on terms
                      and conditions consistent with the
                      obligations of the Borrower under this
                      Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower;
    (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and CDR.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CDR, and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance
with its terms; and
    (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and CDR in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Beirut, Lebanese Republic
                                       Telex:
                                         923.235.13
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                LEBANESE REPUBLIC
                By /s/ Nabil El Jisr
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ Inder Sud
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated                 % of
                         (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1) Works               12,000,000                 70%
(2) Goods               23,100,000                 100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
Page  9
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 80% of
                                                   local expenditures         fo
r other items
                                                   procured locally
(3) Consultants'        11,000,000                 100%
    services
(4) Unallocated          8,900,000
                        __________
        Total           55,000,000
                        ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000), may be made in
respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods, works and services under contracts not exceeding
$250,000 equivalent for goods and works, $100,000 equivalent
for services with firms, and $50,000 for services with
individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(i) eliminating unsanitary and improper dumping of solid waste;
(ii) improving methods of waste collection and disposal; (iii)
improving cost recovery of solid waste collection; (iv)
modernizing municipal management and financial systems; (v)
improving the quality and marketability of compost; (vi)
increasing private sector involvement in solid waste
management; and (vii) strengthening the capabilities of CDR,
MMRA and the Participating Municipalities in the area of solid
waste management.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Refuse Collection Facilities
    Provision of about five thousand two hundred (5,200)
containers, about one hundred eighty (180) compactor trucks,
special containers and trucks to collect and transport hospital
waste, and street sweeping and washing equipment.
Part B: Disposal Facilities
1.  Development of about fifteen (15) sanitary landfills.
Page  10
2   Rehabilitation of old waste dumps.
3.  Construction of two (2) compost plants, one in Saida and the
other in Zahle.
4.  Modernization of an incinerator and construction of a
compost plant in Amrousiyeh.
5.  Construction of a special incinerator to dispose of hospital
waste.
Part C: Coastal Zone Management Plan and Institutional Strengthening
1.  Preparation of a Coastal Zone management plan.
2.  Institutional support to CDR, MMRA and the Participating
Municipalities through the provision of technical assistance,
training and equipment therefor.
Part D: Engineering Services
1.  Assistance to CDR in carrying out environmental assessments,
evaluating bids and supervising construction activities.
2.  Preparation of a plan, including an EA, for the
rehabilitation of waste dumps.
3.  Preparation of engineering designs for, and supervision of:
(a) the construction of landfills; (b) the construction of the
two (2) compost plants referred to under Part B.3 of the
Project, the compost plant referred to under Part B.4 of the
Project, and the incinerator referred to under Part B.5 of the
Project; (c) the modernization of the incinerator referred to
under Part B.4 of the Project; and (d) the rehabilitation of
old waste dumps.
                                  * * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                   (Expressed in dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15
    beginning February 15, 2001
    through February 15, 2012                       2,290,000.00
And on August 15, 2012                              2,330,000.00
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                        The interest rate (expressed
                                        as a percentage per annum)
                                        applicable to the Loan on the
                                        day of prepayment multiplied
                                        by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
    before maturity
Page  11
More than three years but                            0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                Schedule for the payment or payments in
                respect of which replenishment is requested.
Page  12
                On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of the Special Account
                for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  13
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
