                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No.: 38473




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                    LEBANON

   EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                 (LOAN 3562-LE)
                                       AND
     SOLID WASTE AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                 (LOAN 3899-LE)




                                 January 25, 2007




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound

1994 (May)                        US$ 1.00                LBP 1,690
1997 (October)                    US$ 1.00                LBP 1,531
2005 (November)                   US$ 1.00                LBP 1,5075

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARLA             Assistance to the Rehabilitation of the Lebanese Administration (EU program)
BOT              Build ­ Operate ­ Transfer
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CDR              Council for Development and Reconstruction
CPPR             Country Portfolio Performance Review
CZM              Coastal Zone Management
EA               Environmental Assessment
EIB              European Investment Bank
EdL              Electricité du Liban
ERRP             Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
EU               European Union
GOL              Government of Lebanon
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IMF              Independent Municipal Fund
MIM              Ministry of Interior and Municipalities
MMRA             Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MOE              Ministry of Environment
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MOI              Ministry of Interior
MPT              Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
NERP             National Emergency Recovery Program
NIMBY            Not In My BackYard syndrome
OECF             Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
OMSAR            Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PMU              Project Management Unit
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
QAG              Quality Assessment Group
SIU              Sector Implementation Unit
SWEMP            Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project
SWM              Solid Waste Management
TCC              Technical Coordination Committee
USAID            United States Agency for International Development


Fiscal Year
Government                                January 1 ­ December 31


Director-General, Evaluation                              :  Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)       :  Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division  :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                              :  Mr. George T. K. Pitman

                                                               i



 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.



About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                iii


Contents

Preface.............................................................................................................................. vii


Summary........................................................................................................................... ix


Background ........................................................................................................................1


The Projects........................................................................................................................2

        Objectives, Components and Costs..........................................................................2
        Implementation ........................................................................................................2
             Implementing Arrangements                                                                                                 2
             Implementation Experience                                                                                                 4


Evaluation...........................................................................................................................6

        Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................................................................6
        Outcomes .................................................................................................................6
        Relevance.................................................................................................................7
        Efficacy....................................................................................................................9
             Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project                                                                       9
             Solid Waste and Environment Management Project                                                                           13
        Efficiency...............................................................................................................15
             Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project                                                                      15
             Solid Waste and Environment Management Project                                                                           15
        Risks to Development Outcomes...........................................................................16
        Bank Performance..................................................................................................16
        Borrower Performance...........................................................................................17


Looking Forward and Lessons .......................................................................................18


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet..............................................................................................21




This report was prepared by George T. K. Pitman and was based on the field work of Denis Robert
(consultant) who assessed the project in February 2006. Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.


                                                       v



PRINCIPAL RATINGS

                                                  ICR*              ICR Review*                PPAR


Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP)

Outcome                                       Satisfactory          Moderately           Satisfactory
                                                                    Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**               Modest               Modest                   nr
Risks to Development Outcome                        nr                   nr               Significant
Sustainability***                                 Likely              Likely                   nr
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory          Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory          Satisfactory         Satisfactory


Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project (SWEMP)
Outcome                                       Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**               Modest               Modest                   nr
Risks to Development Outcome                        nr                   nr               Significant
Sustainability***                                Unlikely            Unlikely                  nr
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory          Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory        Unsatisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings
of the ICR.
** As of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
*** As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.
nr = not rated


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE

          Project                            Task                 Division Chief/              Country
                                        Manager/Leader            Sector Director              Director


Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP)

Appraisal                             Youssef Choucair       Alastair J. McKechnie       Ram Chopra
Completion                             Somin Mukherji          Françoise Clottes        Joseph P. Saba

Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project (SWEMP)

Appraisal                             Douglas Graham         Alastair J. McKechnie        Inder K.Sud
Completion                              Allan Rotman           Narasimham Vijay         Joseph P. Saba
                                                                  Jagannathan


                                            vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project and on the Solid Waste and Environmental
Management Project in Lebanon.

        The Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project, estimated at appraisal
to cost US$ 224 million, was approved in March 1993 for an IBRD loan of US$ 175
million. The European Investment Bank agreed to cofinance US$10 million. A
supplementary loan of US$ 50 million was approved in May 1996 and the total estimated
cost of the project increased to US$ 293 million. Total project costs at completion were
US$ 294.8 million of which the IBRD provided US$219.7 million, the Government of
Lebanon US$43.4 million and the EIB US$30.4 million. The project closed on March 1,
2002, when US$5.3 million was cancelled after four extensions totaling 62 months.

        The Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project, estimated at appraisal
to cost US$135 million, was approved in June 1995 for an IBRD loan of US$55 million.
Japan (OECF) agreed to cofinance US$55 million. In June 2001, the project was
restructured and reduced in scope, $30 million of the loan and all OECF cofinancing was
cancelled, and the closing date was extended by two years. The final cost of the project
was US$11.2 million of which the IBRD disbursed US$10.1 million and GOL US$1.2
million. The loan closed in December 31, 2003 when US$13.8 million was cancelled.

        This report is based on the review of the Implementation Completion Reports
(ICR) for the two projects (Report No 24728 dated August 28, 2002, and Report No
27575 dated June 21, 2004) by the Middle East and North Africa Region. This was
supplemented by the respective Memoranda and Recommendations of the President,
Staff Appraisal Reports and Project Appraisal Documents, credit and legal documents,
project files at the World Bank's Headquarters and discussions with Bank staff in
Washington and Beirut.

        An Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) mission visited Lebanon in February
2006 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the Government,
development partners, implementing agencies, and beneficiaries. The cooperation and
assistance of central government officials, management and staff of implementing
agencies and other parties concerned are gratefully acknowledged.

        These projects were selected for assessment because (a) IEG had only a few
evaluations on Bank projects and programs in Lebanon, (b) Lebanon had been short-
listed for a forthcoming IEG Country Assistance Evaluation covering the last 10 years
and, (c) the environmental management aspects of these projects could provide valuable
lessons for IEG's global evaluation of the Bank's assistance for environmental
management.

        Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the
Borrower for comments, but none were received.


                                               ix


Summary

        The 1993 Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project was the first
World Bank project in Lebanon after the end of the 15-year civil war and was followed
by the 1995 Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project. The Emergency
Project focused on essential repairs of physical and social infrastructure in various sectors
(power, water and sanitation, solid waste, education, housing, etc.) while paving the way
for future sector reforms. Subsequently non-emergency works were incorporated into the
Emergency Project after a supplementary loan was agreed in 1996. The follow-on Solid
Waste Project was aimed at developing the solid waste sector in the country, through
investments and institutional strengthening, and creating instruments for better planning
and development of the Lebanese coastal zone.

        The Emergency Project addressed critical post-conflict infrastructure
reconstruction and it was highly relevant to the Government's objectives. After four
extensions of the closing date due to optimistic initial assumptions and the resumption of
hostilities in 1996, the project achieved most of its physical objectives, particularly in the
power and water and sanitation sectors, but was less successful in the implementation of
basic sector reforms. Overall the project outcome is rated as satisfactory.

        The Solid Waste Project's objective to provide solid waste collection and
treatment facilities for the whole country was overly ambitious. Although this objective
was in line with Government's initial strategy, project design was only modestly relevant
because it failed to take account of Lebanon's inexperience in solid waste management,
lack of subsector capacity at the end of the civil war, and local political opposition to
solid waste facilities and landfill sites. Specifically, the project did not learn sufficiently
from the experience and difficulties encountered by the Emergency Project. Its
implementation was particularly fraught because of unmitigated social resistance and
government's changes in sector strategy that led to the withdrawal of Japanese
cofinancing and the restructuring of the project in 2001. At completion, only one of the
15 sanitary landfills planned was completed. The project almost totally failed to achieve
its objectives, and its outcome is rated as unsatisfactory.

        Government efforts under the Emergency Reconstruction Project concentrated on
slowly expanding infrastructure for water supply, solid waste management and electricity
and less on sector reform, although there were notable achievements in the Ministry of
Finance and Telecommunications. Little progress was made on institutional issues
requiring cross-sectoral coordination. Subsequent attention to improving cost recovery,
demand management and environmental conservation has languished as the government
continues to subsidize the delivery of basic services in response to political
considerations. What little attention there was to long-range planning, conservation,
trade-offs, and efficiency improvements has become hostage to the uncertain political
climate and inability to bridge sectarian differences for the common good. The most
recent 34-day war between Hezbollah and Israel that started in July 2006 underscores the
tremendous governance challenges in Lebanon caused by the diffusion of political
authority among various sects and branches of government.

                                              x


        Both projects have significant risks to their development outcomes primarily
because of the macroeconomic and political environment, social concerns and the recent
Hezbollah-Israeli war. At the time the projects were assessed by IEG the good quality
construction of the projects' infrastructure, allied with good standards of operation but
modest standards of maintenance, posed moderate risks to their technical sustainability.
Even so, these modest risks are threatened by generally inadequate cost recovery and
dependence on government subsidies. While it is not known how much of the projects'
infrastructure was damaged or destroyed by the recent war, it is likely that continued
public subsidies may be reduced as a result of the burgeoning public debt and additional
pressure from donors supporting the latest round of infrastructure reconstruction.

        Bank and Borrower performance are rated as satisfactory for the Emergency
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project, but unsatisfactory for the Solid Waste and
Environmental Management Project, in light of the project's weak design and belated
restructuring and of poor implementation by Government agencies.

        These projects confirm three IEG lessons:

Lesson 1. Avoid over-specifying the details of post-conflict reconstruction and give
adequate attention to institutional reform and capacity-building. One of the main reasons
for the success of Lebanon's Emergency Project was the flexibility introduced at the very
origin of the project that allowed re-allocations of funds between sectors according to
demand and readiness for implementation. Unwillingness to address market failure,
systemic institutional problems and capacity constraints in parallel with the restoration of
physical infrastructure may allow continuation of out-dated practices and low levels of
efficiency.

Lesson 2. Big bang approaches to solid waste management do not work when political
consensus and good governance are lacking. The failure of Solid Waste Project stems
mainly from the lack of consensus on the government's overall strategy for solid waste
management albeit with some successful exceptions locally. Continued debate on the best
way forward among national and local politicians, NGOs and businessmen, combined
with strong local resistance to dump sites, effectively halted implementation and the
project failed. In the few places where local political consensus was achieved ­ following
long, patient and transparent dialogue built on clear information and sound technical
advice on alternatives ­ the pilot project was successful.

Lesson 3. In the absence of national consensus on environmental management it is
better to develop local solutions that can later be scaled up. In the case of Lebanon's
solid waste management the primary issue appears to be lack of information
dissemination and little practical experience with solid waste disposal. Development of
pilots and study tours to orientate decision-makers and NGOs would inform the
contentious debate and pave the way for practical solutions.

                                               1


Background

1.      Lebanon's economic growth before the start of the 1975-90 civil war had been
largely driven by the service sectors, namely trade, tourism and finance, which attracted
business from surrounding oil-based economies. Subsequently the economy and socio-
economic conditions deteriorated markedly with intermittent recovery during periods of
relative calm. By 1990 Lebanon's per capita GNP had declined to one third of the 1975
level, income inequalities became accentuated and many of the most skilled workers and
professionals emigrated. Nearly one quarter of the population of 3.6 million had been
displaced and lived in unhealthy shantytowns with severe overcrowding and inadequate
housing due to war damage. Urban poverty problems were especially pressing in Beirut.
By the end of the war, public utilities and social services were either non-existent or of
poor quality. The total damage to physical assets was estimated by the United Nations at
$25 billion.

2.      An ambitious master plan for the reconstruction of the Lebanese economy formed
the basis for the National Emergency Recovery Program (NERP) that was prepared with
the assistance of the Bank. The NERP was designed as a multi-sector operation focusing
on emergency repairs and the rehabilitation of infrastructure (water/wastewater, solid
waste, electricity, telecommunications, transport) and social components (education,
health, social services, housing) as well as other components (production, government
buildings, technical assistance). Initial investment of $2.3 billion was envisaged over a
four-year period (1993-1996). At the same time the Government initiated major
initiatives to expand physical infrastructure and introduce private sector participation.

3.      GDP grew rapidly during the reconstruction phase (1991-1997) and has
progressively decelerated thereafter, with a recession in 2000. Even so, per capita
incomes are about three to four times higher in late 2005 ($3,800 against $1,200) than
they were at the end of the war.

4.      The Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (ERRP) was one of the
major components of the NERP. To induce other donors to participate in the financing of
the NERP, the ERRP incorporated several sectors: power, water and sanitation, solid
waste, education, housing, and technical assistance to the finance and telecommunication
sectors.

5.      The Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project (SWEMP) was an
ERRP follow-on project. The solid waste sector, which was the responsibility of
municipalities, was generally limited to the collection of urban waste and its disposal.
Although solid waste was included in ERRP, it only addressed immediate needs and
severe risk to public health and the environment remained because of haphazard dumping
on the streets, vacant lots and the coastline, with frequent intermingling of hospital and
other hazardous wastes. Political and public awareness in solid waste management was
very low. Thus the SWEMP was designed to complement the solid waste component of
the ERRP and to provide a countrywide solution for solid waste management.

                                               2


The Projects

Objectives, Components and Costs

6.      The Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project. The objectives of
the ERRP to implement a program to rehabilitate, repair and reconstruct damaged
physical and social infrastructure facilities and housing and strengthen the Borrower's
institutional capacity in implementing the NERP are clear and well-defined. As seen in
Table 1 the project limited itself to the rehabilitation, repair and reconstruction of
damaged physical and social infrastructure facilities and restoration to a basic level of
service provision. These objectives did not change during implementation even though
there were substantial alterations to the components. Although ERRP was not in itself a
vehicle for policy reforms, it did expect to create viable service sectors that would be the
platform for subsequent institutional and financial reforms.

7.      Project components were wide-ranging and covered major subsectors in addition
to overall institutional strengthening (Table 1). They included reconstruction and/or
rehabilitation of water and wastewater facilities, electricity distribution facilities and
provision of collection, treatment equipment and disposal facilities for solid waste
management. Damaged housing, vocational and technical training facilities were to be
reconstructed giving priority to the needs of displaced households.

8.      The Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project. Soon after the
start of ERRP the SWEMP was prepared and at its inception in 1996 the solid waste
component of the ERRP was cancelled. SWEMP's objectives were to eliminate
unsanitary and improper dumping of solid waste and strengthen the capabilities of central
ministries and agencies and participating municipalities in the area of solid waste
management. In most respects these were more detailed versions of ERRP objectives
with the addition of enhanced support for sub-sector capacity building (Table 1). It was
intended to meet the country's needs in solid waste management facilities, to strengthen
the institutions responsible for solid waste management and encourage private sector
participation in sector investment and management. A broader environmental component
included assistance to develop a coastal zone management plan aimed at protecting of the
Lebanese coast from further degradation. Physical components included refuse collection
and waste disposal facilities incorporating sanitary landfills and compost plants and
separate facilities for hospital waste.

Implementation

IMPLEMENTING ARRANGEMENTS

9.      After the civil war, the professional capacities of the ministries were dramatically
weak. To implement its reconstruction program, the government revived the Council of
Development and Reconstruction (CDR) in 1991 and CDR was responsible for
implementing both projects.

                                                     3


Table 1: Project Objectives, components and costs

            Original Objectives                               Components                              Cost $ millions
                                                                                                      Entry     Exit

Emergency Reconstruction And Rehabilitation Project
                                           · Water supply and waste water including protection of     70.5    130.9
                                              supplies from pollution, provision of water treatment
                                              and disinfection and rehabilitation of water
                                              distribution, sewerage networks and treatment
                                              facilities.
                                           · Solid waste ­ procure 80 compactor trucks and 2,760      45.0     41.0
1. Implement a program to rehabilitate,       containers; create and operate suitable disposal sites
repair and reconstruct damaged                to prevent further dumping along the sea coast; and
physical and social infrastructure            prepare a long term strategy for soli waste
facilities and housing                        management.
                                           · Electricity ­ rehabilitate medium and low voltage        41.2     52.0
                                              networks in Beirut and restore supply to destroyed
                                              villages countrywide.
                                           · Housing ­ this was dropped in 1995 and remaining         38.5     15.6
                                              funds allocated to the electricity subcomponent.
                                           · Education ­ rehabilitate building, repair/replace        18.7     18.2
                                              equipment, prepare and produce textbooks and
                                              training seminars.
2. Strengthen the Borrower's
institutional capacity in implementing the · Institutional strengthening                              10.0     20.1
NERP
                                                                                                Total 223.9   294.9

Solid Waste And Environmental Management Project
1. Eliminate unsanitary and improper       · Provide 180 compactor trucks for solid waste
dumping of solid waste by:                 · Provide 5,200 waste collection containers
a)    Improving methods of waste           · Develop 15 sanitary landfill ­ at restructuring in June  59.1      5.1
      collection and disposal                 2001 this target was reduced to "2-4 locations"
b)    Improving the quality and            · Rehabilitate old waste dumps
      marketability of compost through
      introduction of sorting prior to
      composting                           · Construct three compost plants, a new incinerator for
                                              hospital waste and modernize the incinerator at         64.9      0.0
                                              Amrousiyeh ­ at restructuring this component to be
                                              financed by OECF was dropped
2. Strengthen the capabilities of CDR,
MMRA and participating municipalities
in the area of solid waste management
by:                                        · Provide technical assistance and equipment to assist
a)    Improving cost recovery of solid        reparation a coastal zone management plan and to        11.0      6.1
      waste collection                        strengthen national and local institutions
b)    Modernizing municipal                   ­ at restructuring TA was reduced to focus on solid
      management and financial systems        waste management related studies, initiation of costs
c)    Increasing private sector               recovery systems and capacity building for selected
      involvement in solid waste              local municipalities
      management
d)    Create instruments for the more
      orderly planning and development
      of the Lebanese coastal zone
                                                                                                Total 135.0    11.2

                                              4


10.     SWEMP. The implementation arrangements followed those established for
ERRP including EU funded support for the central Project Coordination Unit (PMU) and
a Sector Implementation Unit (SIU) within the Ministry of Environment. In addition, the
Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs provided a PCU. Overall coordination was
carried out by a Technical Coordination Committee. Because of political changes and
disagreements about precedence among ministries, these complex project managerial
arrangements created implementation problems.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

11.     ERRP. Project implementation had been optimistically estimated at three and a
quarter years but subsequent events caused it to be extended by more than five years. The
Project was amended three times and the original closing date (December 31, 1996) was
extended four times. The first amendment was for the reallocation in 1995 of the housing
component funds to the power component. In February 1996, because of implementation
delays arising from of the inaccurate Damage Assessment Reports, the closing date was
extended to the end of 1998. The resurgence of the hostilities in April 1996 led to the
Supplementary Loan of $50 million, and the second amendment of the original loan
agreement. A third amendment permitted financing of accelerated courses under the
education component. In 1998 the closing date was extended again to early 2000, to
accommodate delays from a new administration taking office. It was extended by a
further year to allow rehabilitation works in liberated territories in south Lebanon.
Subsequently, an additional year's extension was approved to facilitate the completion of
the ongoing works and the project closed in March 2002.

12.     Although design and tender documents were prepared by the SIUs assisted by
consulting firms, procurement under the ERRP was not done through the ministries but
through the CDR, taking advantage of its more expeditious procurement procedures.

13.     SWEMP. The loan was declared effective in August 1996. Initial implementation
of the project was very slow due to the Government's intention to revise the design of the
project by reducing the number of sanitary landfills sites after CDR revised its long-term
strategy for the subsector. This revised strategy was endorsed by the Council of Ministers
on January 22, 1997 (Decision Nr 18).

14.     In early 1997 the Government decided on a major change in its solid waste
management strategy. Whereas the initial design (one landfill for each individual Caza)
aimed to avoid problems between Cazas and minimize transport of wastes, the
government's new strategy provided for 8 regional schemes (not including Greater
Beirut) each comprising one large landfill in less densely populated areas where land was
available. Accordingly part of SWEMP was redesigned to include solid waste transfer
stations, long-distance transportation and waste sorting.

15.     There was strong social resistance to solid waste disposal and treatment sites. The
type, magnitude and intensity of resistance, although very common all over the world,
were not apparently anticipated during project preparation. Typically the population of a
village, town or Caza objected to wastes from another village, town or Caza, and these
objections were exacerbated by the ethnic and religious diversity and the pollution
generated by the waste treatment facilities (Box 1.) In Greater Beirut, for example, angry

                                                    5


neighborhood residents destroyed the polluting Amrousiyeh incinerator. This resistance
led to long delays in land acquisitions, and in many cases, to the abandonment of the land
acquisition efforts.

Inadequate consultation on solid waste disposal sites led to local opposition

Landfilling is a land exhaustive waste disposal option. SWEMP envisioned constructing one
landfill in the Koura region to serve three Cazas (Koura, Bsharre and Batroun). From a list of
candidate sites prepared by the Design Engineer, the CDR selected a site in Kfar Hazir for
constructing a sanitary landfill. An EIA was prepared, recognizing certain hydrogeological
concerns that had to be mitigated. Public consultation was initiated ­ but only after the site had
been selected. When local communities got word of the full extent and location of the proposed
landfill, they united against the project. Several prominent academicians from local universities
joined them in their efforts to halt the project. However, neither the local inhabitants nor the
project supporters proposed an alternative waste management scheme. As a result, the project was
aborted at the end of 1999 and no alternative waste management system has been proposed since.
To date, local municipalities continue to dump their waste in open lands and valleys.

Source: Ministry of Environment. State of the Environment Report. 2001.

16.      New actors and administrative changes further complicated implementation. The
Ministry of Environment was only established in 1993. In 1998 the new government
merged the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs into the
Ministry of Interior and Municipalities. The same year, municipal elections ­ the first
since the 60's ­ took place, and fresh and inexperienced municipal councils, confronted
with the project, expressed their concerns or disagreements. Some of them, approached
by environmental NGOs or businessmen, challenged the landfill as the most appropriate
and cost-effective option.

17.      Early in 1999 the SWEMP came to a complete halt. Disbursements under the
loan, including counterpart funds, were frozen by the Ministry of Interior that also
prohibited the use of the Independent Municipal Fund to finance contracts for landfill
management because of macroeconomic considerations and conditions imposed by the
International Monetary Fund. Other restrictions were introduced. The Technical
Coordination Committee was suspended. The PCU had to request Ministry's approval for
any meeting regarding solid waste and, subsequently, the PCU ­ composed of consultants
of an international firm selected by CDR after regular competitive bidding ­ was
dismissed on the grounds they were paid prohibitive fees.

18.      After protracted discussions between the Bank and the government it was agreed
to cancel funds and formally restructure the project. Social resistance to the development
of landfills, and major political changes at national level and elections of new municipal
councils in 1998, challenged the sector organization and technical options being
implemented by SWEMP. The Project remained almost dormant for more than two years,
and was then restructured in June 2001 during the Country Portfolio Performance
Review. When OECF (Japan) withdrew from the project the funding allocated to the
waste treatment facilities, including 3 compost plants and an incinerator for the hospital
waste, was cancelled. Even then, the project scope ­ to cover solid waste treatment for
more than half of the country ­ was ambitious and unrealistic. Consequently the first
objective was downsized. Its scope was limited to demonstrating improved solid waste

                                              6


management in the collection and disposal services on 2 to 4 pilot sanitary landfills and
private sector participation. As a result $30 million of the $55 million loan was cancelled,
and the closing date ­ originally December 31, 2001 ­ was extended to December 31,
2003.


Evaluation

Monitoring and Evaluation

19.     Taking account of the design of M&E, its implementation and utilization, both
projects are rated modest.

20.     Design. The ERRP is rated modest. Being an emergency project and multi-
sectoral, ERRP was appraised in six months and had few specific outcomes defined
because its primary objective was to implement open-ended rehabilitation and repair
efforts. The initial baseline Damage Assessment Report was poor ­ a situation quite
common in post-conflict operations. After re-estimation of damage project costs were
revised upwards requiring supplementary financing. No indicators were defined to allow
measurement of the efficacy and efficiency of rehabilitation and reconstruction or for
measurement of outcomes or impacts. One of the main difficulties with monitoring the
impacts and gauging how efficient they were was that there was no "without project"
control. Attribution was a difficult design issue because the Bank was one of several
donors that, together, covered almost all infrastructure sectors of the economy.

21.     The SWEMP is also rated modest on design. A baseline was established and
inputs, outputs and outcomes were described. Although a high poverty impact was
highlighted at appraisal, there were neither indicators nor an M&E plan to estimate social
outcomes and impacts. A comprehensive M&E plan for the project linking inputs to
impacts in a results chain was not developed except for environmental issues. The
environmental assessment clearly described indicators and standards for environmental
impacts and its quality is substantial.

22.      Implementation. ERRP M&E performance, primarily of inputs, outputs and
other process indicators was substantial because inadequate counterpart staffing and
insufficient capacity-building was mitigated by foreign consultants. SWEMP
implementation of its M&E was substantial but because of the snail's pace of
implementation it focused primarily on input and output indicators.

23.     Utilization. Both project effectively utilized the M&E indicators to monitor
project performance, highlight problems and make appropriate adjustments to project
scope and disbursement. Both projects are rated substantial on this dimension.

Outcomes

24.     This rating is based on the relevance of the projects' objectives and the efficacy
and efficiency of efforts to achieve them (see Table 2). Because the SWEP officially
restructured its objectives, particularly objective 1, the overall ratings for this objective

                                                       7


are weighted by the relative disbursements before and after restructuring. Explanation of
these ratings is given below.

Table 2: Ratings for Achievement of Project Objectives

             Objectives                       Overall       Efficacy      Efficiency     OUTCOME
                                            Relevance*

 Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
 1. Implement a program to rehabilitate,
 repair and reconstruct damaged physical       High        Substantial   Substantial     Satisfactory
 and social infrastructure facilities and
 housing
 2. Strengthen the Borrower's institutional
 capacity in implementing the NERP             High         Modest       Substantial     Satisfactory

            Overall ratings(ERRP)              High       Substantial    Substantial     Satisfactory

 Solid Waste and Environment Management Project

 1 (Original ­ 78 % of project
 disbursement). Eliminate unsanitary and     Substantial   Negligible     Negligible    Unsatisfactory
 improper dumping of solid waste

 1 (Revised ­ 22 % of project
 disbursement). Demonstrate improved
 solid waste management in the collection
 and disposal services through the           Substantial   Negligible     Negligible    Unsatisfactory
 establishment of 2-4 sanitary landfills
 with private sector participation.

    Weighted average for objective 1        Substantial    Negligible     Negligible   Unsatisfactory

 2. Strengthen the capabilities of CDR,
 MMRA and participating municipalities in    Substantial    Modest        Negligible      Moderately
 the area of solid waste management                                                     Unsatisfactory
          Overall ratings(SWEMP)            Substantial    Negligible     Negligible   Unsatisfactory

NA = not available

* Relevance given in this column is the average rating for each objective and design of the project to
achieve it.


Relevance

25.       Both projects were relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The
1994 CAS justified ERRP because it would speed formation of a stable environment that
would increase participation of the private sector thus increase confidence in Lebanon's
fiscal management. Additionally, the government's view was that the presence of the
Bank in the reconstruction effort would enhance their ability to coordinate international
efforts to mobilize external resources and technical assistance. In the second CAS (1997)
it was stated that the Bank's presence would further foster private sector participation
through IFC and MIGA operations and activities, and that the Bank's lending and AAA
and sector work would assist improvement of the environment and public health, thus
improving sustainability.

                                              8


ERRP

26.     The relevance of project objectives to the Borrower and country conditions was
high. Within the framework and the spirit of the NERP the objectives were totally
consistent with the government's objectives and strategy for the reconstruction of the
physical and social infrastructure. The institutional objectives were also highly relevant.
In addition to large-scale financial support for reconstruction, Lebanon required
considerable technical assistance to compensate for the absence of qualified and
experienced staff that had left the country during the war and initiate systemic reform of
the major infrastructure sectors.

27.     Design was highly relevant at appraisal but in hindsight perhaps more attention
should have been given to institutional reform. Thus overall design relevance is
substantial. The large number of sectors addressed by the ERRP is, at first sight,
excessive, and the Bank had wished to concentrate its intervention on two or three
sectors, to maximize impact. But because other donors, supported by the government,
made their support conditional on the Bank being involved in more sectors the Bank
agreed to broaden its scope of activity. Design relevance was also increased by built-in
flexibility that allowed adjustments to changing circumstances and priorities, including
donor interests, and reallocation of funds among and within sector was demand-driven.
Thus the Bank's assistance to eight sectors leveraged significant donor assistance and
was highly relevant - even though this led to a much greater burden on supervision. With
hindsight, if the Bank had focused on fewer sectors there may have been greater pressure
for systemic institutional reform.

28.     The use of extensive technical assistance was substantially relevant given the
need to quickly rebuild local capacity. Thus, for example, TA to the Ministry of Finance
to support cadastral surveys, automated system for customs data (ASYCUDA), and
measures to strengthen economic and financial systems and the introduction of value-
added tax (VAT) were and remain highly relevant given the imperative to generate
government revenues and attain macroeconomic stability.

29.     SWEMP Objectives. The Bank supported SWEMP because it believed that
environmental and institutional issues would continue to receive insufficient attention
because of preoccupation with reconstruction. Thus the Bank's presence was expected to
assist government in halting environmental degradation, building local capacity and
improving prospects for important economic growth areas such as tourism. Overall
relevance of the objectives is rated substantial when considered in the context of the costs
of environmental mismanagement in Lebanon.

30.      Technically, recent Bank sector work on the costs to the economy of
environmental degradation in the Mediterranean region placed solid waste issues at the
bottom of the list in terms of economic impact in Lebanon, Table 3. Judged only in terms
of solid waste, the project was of low relevance when there remained unresolved water
supply problems ­ as was the case. However, when air pollution is considered, the
relevance of the technical solutions proposed (under both original and revised objectives)
increases to high. This is because the primary waste disposal method found at appraisal
and restructuring was open dumping of wastes in and near towns and cities. Not only did

                                                        9


that gave rise to noxious odors but the standard method of waste disposal, open burning,
caused extensive air pollution.

Table 3: Mean Annual Cost of Environmental Degradation to Health and Natural
Resources, 2000
Environmental Component                                    Annual Cost,              Percent
                                                            US$ millions              of GDP
Air                                                            170                     1.02
Water                                                          175                     1.07
Land and Wildlife                                              100                     0.60
Coastal zones and cultural heritage                            110                     0.68
Waste                                                          10                      0.05
                                         Sub-total             565                      3.4
Global Environment                                             90                       0.5
                                             Total             655                      3.9

Source: Sarraf, M, Larsen B and M. Owaygen. 2004. Cost of Environmental Degradation ­ the Case of Lebanon and
Tunisa. Environmental Economic Series Paper No. 97. The World Bank.


31.       Despite the relevant objectives and technical solutions, failure to properly address
institutional concerns lowered overall design relevance to modest. The project scope was
overly ambitious for the five-year implementation period. It was effectively starting from
zero and expecting to meet the sanitary landfill and equipment needs for each of the 26
Cazas forming Lebanon, as well as building modern solid waste management systems
and institutions for the whole of Lebanon.1 Institutionally the project design was of low
relevance also because of the lack of national political consensus on how the sector
should be managed and financed. Restructuring the project significantly improved the
design relevance because it was only possible to reach consensus as a local level.

Efficacy

EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT

32.       Overall efficacy is rated substantial taking into account that fast infrastructure
rehabilitation was relatively more important than building local capacity in the short
term. With few and marginal exceptions the ERRP objectives were achieved thanks to
four factors: the competent support of the CDR's PMU and SIUs funded by the EU in the
line Ministries; the flexibility designed into the management of the funds that allowed
easy re-allocation of funds as needed; that CDR procurement procedures were more
efficient than the procedures applied by the line ministries and agencies; and vigilant and
proactive supervision from the Bank.

Objective 1: Implementation of a program to rehabilitate, repair and reconstruct
damaged physical and social infrastructure facilities and housing was successful and
efficacy is rated substantial.




1. The Lebanese Republic is divided into five regional administrative districts, in Arabic Mohafazat. These
districts are in turn divided into 29 counties, in Arabic caza.

                                                     10


33.     Water and wastewater. The water and wastewater component was implemented
quickly and effectively, thanks to the efficient SIU attached to the Ministry of Energy and
Water. The Project was very successful in rehabilitating small water and wastewater
systems where supplies could be put back into service quickly and where pollution from
damaged facilities was the greatest. At the end of initial implementation period, 97
communities were provided with safe and reliable water systems, and 98 with small
sewerage systems. After the liberation of South Lebanon, 5 additional water and
sewerage systems were promptly rehabilitated, to the benefit of 140 urban and rural
communities. All these systems are currently operated by the regional Water and
Wastewater Offices.

34.     Components financed by the supplementary loan were not so successful. The
project rehabilitated or expanded three large water productions and distribution systems
and wastewater treatment plants Ba'albeck, Metn and Barouk. Because complementary
works, to be financed by other sources, have not been completed on time, these new
facilities are partly or totally inoperative. In particular, the Ba'albeck wastewater
treatment plant (13,000 cum/day capacity), completed in early 2002, is still inoperative
because it is not connected to the sewerage system. The ongoing Bank-supported
Ba'albeck Water and Watewater Project (BWWP, Loan 71170-LE) has completed about
20 percent of the required sewer systems in the period 2003-2006 and selection of an
operator for a two-year service contract is expected to be complete by the fall of 2006.

35.     By the end of ERRP only about 38 percent of the population in the Ba'albeck ­
Nabi Chit area were connected to piped water supplies. Even then households were
receiving only a third of the volume of water paid for due to intermittent supplies, a
situation that is exacerbated by the proportion of subscribers not paying their bills ­
more than 65 percent.2 The ongoing BWWP has completed by mid-2006 almost two-
thirds of the new water distribution lines planned to connect the whole population of
about 150,000 and full service delivery is expected by 2007-08.

36.     Solid Waste. The implementation of the solid waste component by the newly
established Ministry of Environment faced various obstacles that reduced its efficacy.
These included lack of funds in municipalities (managed by the Ministry of Interior until
the first municipal elections in 1998) that precluded purchase of lands for the sanitary
landfills, local resistance, and a substantive change in the government's strategy in 1997.
As a result, in 1996, at the inception of the SWEMP, the CDR decided not to go further
with the solid waste component of the ERRP, and the undisbursed balance was allocated
to the water and technical assistance components, the latter primarily for
telecommunications.

37.     The Project procured or repaired equipment for waste collection (2,760
containers, 80 compactor trucks, etc.) throughout the country. In Beirut, workshops were



2. Subscribers pay a flat fee of US$90 per year for one cubic meter per day per household in the absence of
metering; actual supply was about 330 liters per capita per day and thus the effective water tariff was
US$0.75 per cubic meter. Unserved households buy water from truck vendors and pay about US$2.5 per
cubic meter or ten times the tariff that connected households should have paid.

                                                    11


rehabilitated and 33 compactor trucks were rehabilitated or repaired. The project
introduced successful participation in solid waste collection and treatment at Tripoli and
in Greater Beirut. Tripoli and Beirut landfills are currently operated by private
contractors, and in Tripoli, the existing coastal dumpsite was turned into a proper sanitary
landfill, duly equipped.

38.     Not all went as planned. In Greater Beirut, although the project rehabilitated the
Karantina compost plant and the Amrossieh incinerator and briefly supported their
operation and maintenance, the incinerator is no longer operational. Public protests about
air pollution closed it down and it now functions as a sorting plant.

39.     Electricity. The electricity component covering distribution and metering was
implemented very quickly in Beirut and rural areas. Actually, the main actor in Project
implementation was the Electricité du Liban (EdL) supported by a SIU and Electricité de
France funded by the French Government; the role of the Ministry of Energy has been
very marginal. To take into account the inaccuracies of the Damage Assessment Reports,
flexible contracts were prepared with the Bank's approval. This allowed a rapid and
visible improvement in the electricity services; in 1997, electricity was available on
average 22 hours per day in Beirut compared with about 6 hours per day in 1992. A
major accomplishment was rehabilitation of the 34 MW Markabi Hydroelectric Plant on
the Litani River after the liberation of south Lebanon. Continued support for the sector
and institutional reform was addressed through the Power Sector Restructuring Project
approved in 1966. Although infrastructure was improved by ERRP the power sector has
not solved substantial institutional and financing problems that jeopardize its viability.

40.     Education. The physical rehabilitation of 21 schools and workshops, as well as
the replacement of equipment, has been successful, although delayed by administrative
constraints. On the other hand, the preparation of student textbooks and teacher guides
has been a failure due to inappropriate consultant support and very few textbooks are
reportedly still in use. An accelerated vocational training program in painting, plastering,
bricklaying, carpentry, etc. successfully trained over 9,000 participants. A follow-on
Bank project has built upon these initial rehabilitation efforts.3

41.     Housing. This component was suspended after cheaper concessional financing
made it irrelevant and the original funding was reallocated to the power sector
rehabilitation. Subsequently it was revived following the liberation of south Lebanon and
14,175 housing grants were awarded to induce displaced families to return to the area.

Objective 2: The Borrower's institutional capacity in implementing the NERP was
modestly strengthen and efficacy is rated modest.

42.     The project financed the engineering, design and contract preparation activities
for reconstruction or rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure and extensively
supplemented the skills base of the participating ministries and line agencies. While it
was anticipated that technical assistance would train and expand local capacity the impact



3. Vocational and Technical Education Project, part of the General Education Project.

                                              12


was limited because of lack of counterparts. Many government posts remained vacant
because most potential candidates were not interested in the working conditions and
salaries of the public service.

43.     The project had a substantial institutional impact on CDR's implementation of the
NERP, particularly its facilitation of external support and measures aimed at raising the
efficiency and transparency of public financial management and revenues. However, it
should be recognized that many of the subsectoral institutional improvements in this
period that were covered by the project also benefited from the assistance of other
multilateral and bilateral partners involved in Lebanon's reconstruction.

44.     An important achievement was the preparation of a Water Law (No. 221 of May
2000) that provides for the restructuring of the water and wastewater sector. The 22 local
water companies operating in the 90's have been clustered in 5 regional Water Offices,
public entities responsible for operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater
facilities. The law also introduced the basis of cost recovery. A "Long Term Strategy for
Solid Waste Management in Lebanon" was prepared by the CDR in 1995, based on the
setting up of sanitary landfills in each of the 26 Cazas of the country, and composting
plants in large cities. This strategy has not been officially endorsed.

45.     During the preparation of the ERRP a study was completed that identified
problems in all areas of operations of Electricité du Liban (EdL), the national electric
power utility. Electricity losses (technical and non-technical) were over half of net
available electricity and collections of billed electricity were only 80%. In addition, EdL
lacked the financial and management autonomy for a normal operating utility, its
organizational structure and human resources were inadequate to function effectively,
internal financial management and controls were also weak and unreliable, and the
operating deficit was about $200 million per year requiring large government subsidies.
The strategic program for Bank support that emerged out of the dialogue with the
Government was to focus attention on the development of the new 220 kV transmission
network since most of the generation investments had almost been completed.
Unresolved issues included the internal restructuring of EdL to achieve efficiency and
viability in the shortest possible time frame, and reforms of the power sector to attract
private investments to support the needed improvements in distribution and future
development of the sector. These were addressed in the follow-on Power Sector
Restructuring and Transmission Expansion Project (Loan 41120-LN, 1996-2002) whose
outcome was highly unsatisfactory because there was negligible progress on institutional
reform.

46.     In the telecommunication sector the TA financed a study of restructuring of the
sector and a management contract to help the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
(MPT) to reconstruct, expand and manage the telephone systems. Due to the reluctance
of the MPT to delegate the management to a private operator this support to the MPT was
not very successful.

47.     The TA also assisted in the preparation of the law on privatization, which was
approved and ratified in 2002. Private mobile phone operators have been active until
2004, when the Government decided to terminate their licenses. As a result, the whole

                                              13


telecommunication sector is currently operated by the Ministry utilizing two private
sector management contractors.

48.     Support to the Ministry of Finance was probably the most successful institutional
intervention. Revenue collection was enhanced, economic and financial management was
strengthened and the Value Added Tax system (VAT) was introduced to Lebanon.

SOLID WASTE AND ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

Objective 1, taking into account its reformulation at restructuring, was only partly
achieved with considerable shortcomings and efficacy is rated negligible.

49.     The initial objective, "the elimination of unsanitary and improper dumping of
solid waste" was too ambitious and was not achieved and its efficacy is rated negligible.
Efficacy was dominated by landfill issues. On project restructuring the scope of this
objective was substantially reduced to only "demonstrate improved solid waste
management in the collection and disposal services through the establishment of 2-4
sanitary landfills with private sector participation." Even this revised objective was only
partly achieved and efficacy is rated modest. Only one demonstration plant has been
successful and private sector participation is gradually gaining momentum after a very
slow start. Given that 78 percent of the project disbursement was against the initial
development objective, the overall efficacy (weighted by disbursements) is rated
negligible.

50.     The effect of strong social resistance to solid waste disposal and treatment sites
caused the initial development objective to be abandoned de facto in 1999 and officially
in 2001. Project activities were focusing on only three landfills, Zahle, Ba'albeck and
Jbeil. In Zahle, the landfill, completed in 1999, remained un-operated for the next two
years due to local level financing problems - municipal resources are for waste collection,
not for treatment. Subsequently, it started site operation in 2001 through a contract with
private operator financed by the project. At the same time, another private operator was
contracted by the project to collect waste.

51.     Since project closure, operator remuneration has been provided by government
subsidy through the CDR in accordance with the government's decision in 2003 to
finance all treatment costs throughout the country. This arrangement, although only
properly working since January 2006, remains unsatisfactory because of the deteriorating
macroeconomic situation and the risks of government cost-cutting.

52.     Today, Zahle sanitary landfill is clearly a reference ­ and the only one ­ for the
secondary cities in Lebanon, thanks to the sense of responsibilities of the Municipal
Council and the professionalism of the operator. Thus, the municipality has been able to
attract USAID funds for the extension of the sorting plan, the construction of a compost
plant and a treatment plant, to be commissioned late 2006. More and more municipalities
of the Caza (currently 16 out of 26) are now using the Zahle landfill services. The
participating municipalities contribute to a fund managed by the municipality of Zahle, to
cover the cost of replacing the landfill equipment, extending the landfill and other
activities.

                                               14


53.     In Ba'albeck the municipality acquired land was for the waste disposal site, an
environmental impact assessment and bidding documents for the works were completed.
Currently, the new municipal council ­ elected in 2004 ­ is looking for funds for the
construction of the new sanitary landfill, and the closure and removal of the old dump,
located on an historical site. Grant financing for the construction of a sorting plant and a
compost plant has been awarded by the European Union but the issue of the landfill
remains unsolved.

54.     The site for the Jbeil sanitary landfill (Hbaline) has been acquired, and the EA
satisfactorily completed. Because of considerable public concern that the landfill will also
serve part of the Greater Beirut no significant progress has been made since 2002.

Objective 2, to strengthen the capabilities of CDR, MMRA and participating
municipalities in the area of solid waste management was only partially achieved and
its efficacy is rated modest.

55.     Training manuals on waste collection, environmental assessment, public
consultation, litter management, street sweeping services and technical notes on sanitary
landfills were prepared, and workshops on their use were completed but there are no
indicators that can be used to assess impact. Although the compost marketing study was
fully completed, the hospital waste study was abandoned because of the social resistance
to the proposed site for the hospital specialized incinerator.

56.     A national strategy for solid waste management was developed by the Ministry of
Environment from the recommendation of a national workshop in 1999.4 The strategy
promoted waste minimization programs and a gradual phase-in of source separation, and
use continued use sanitary landfills for the foreseeable future. The strategy falls short on
setting waste reduction targets and defining incentives and instruments to encourage
waste minimization. Subsequently this strategy ran into problems because key
institutional stakeholders could not reach a consensus on how to manage and regulate the
sector and allocate responsibility. Currently, municipalities manage solid waste
independently and because of diseconomies of scale this severely disadvantages rural
areas and small towns.

57.     The project substantially supported development of technical options and training
for solid waste management but there are no indicators for its impact on overall sector
management and strategy that still appears to be under discussion a decade after the
project was approved. Private sector participation (PPP) in solid waste collection and
management did occur at the Zahle project site but is not clear if this can be
unambiguously attributed to the Bank's support. USAID, the EU and UNDP supported
PPP and community participation for solid waste management during this period, as did
the government for Greater Beirut, and these efforts continue.




4. Workshop on "Waste Management Strategy for Lebanon." Organized by the MoE, METAP and the
World Bank. Beirut. May 7-9, 1999.

                                                      15


58.      The Coastal Zone Management Study was dropped at restructuring and a separate
Coastal Zone Pollution Control and Water Supply project costing US$308 million was
approved by the Bank in 1997 (Loan 4136-LE).5 Like the SWEMP, the coastal zone
project ran into strong public and political opposition because of site specific objections
to the Kesrouan wastewater treatment works. In consequence, because the government
could not obtain parliamentary ratification, the loan never became effective and lapsed
after 18 months.

Efficiency

EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT

59.      There were no indicators for efficiency because of the nature of the project and
the lack of ex-ante formal economic or financial analysis, and lack of a reliable baseline.
Total Bank preparation and preparation costs were only 0.5 percent of total project cost
and this is relatively low by Bank standards. Within the project several infrastructure
improvements yielded acceptable and satisfactory rates of return ­ the Markabi
Hydropower plant for example yields an estimated economic rate of return of 12 percent.
During the field assessment IEG requested additional information on the financial aspects
of utility performance but none was made available.6 Overall, despite the paucity of
indicators, efficiency is rated as substantial.

SOLID WASTE AND ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT PROJECT

60.      The principle project benefit was to be a substantial improvement to the
environment. Specifically this was to include cleaning up accumulated refuse in urban
areas and along the coastline, improving the management of existing sites and
eliminating unsanitary and improper piles of refuse in public areas. Overall the project
contributed only very modest improvements to the environment although the efficiency
obtained at Zahle was substantial. The average costs of solid waste management using the
low costs approaches piloted by the project is $28/tonne at Zahle compared with the more
technically demanding system independently established by the government in Beirut that
costs $110/tonne. On a technical basis and considering the shortfall on physical targets,
efficiency is rated modest.

61.      In terms of the Bank's efficiency, the Bank's costs were almost 8 percent of the
total project costs ­ an order of magnitude greater than they would have been if the
project had disbursed as planned ­ yet little was achieved even on the institutional
objectives. On both counts, implementation efficiency is rated negligible particularly as
many of the initial risks had been successfully negotiated by ERRP. Considering the
efficiency of physical components and institutional aspects together, the overall
efficiency is rated negligible.



5. Project Completion Note. January 1, 2001. This project is a good example of the convening power of the
World Bank highlighted in para 20. The World Bank loan of US$53.1 million was cofinanced by the
European Investment Bank (US$62 million) and Japan (OECF ­ 123.9 million) and the EU (US$17.1
million.) With the non-effectiveness of this loan the EIB withdrew it funding that had been contingent on
the Bank. Japan (OECF) proceeded to independently finance the components it had agreed to support.
6. Subsequent follow-up was frustrated by the outbreak of hostilities in July 2006.

                                               16


Risks to Development Outcomes

62.     Both projects have substantial risks to their development outcomes primarily
because of the macroeconomic and political environment, and social concerns. At the
time the projects were assessed by IEG (February 2006) good quality construction of the
projects' infrastructure, allied with good standards of operation but modest standards of
maintenance, posed moderate risks to their technical sustainability. Even so, these modest
risks are threatened by generally inadequate cost recovery (para 35) and dependence on
government subsidies. The damage caused by the recent Hezbollah-Israeli war to some
infrastructure built by the ERRP was substantial; conversely the single successful solid
waste disposal site at Zahle was unaffected.

63.     Economic growth at 2 to 3 percent is less than half of that experienced
immediately post-war. Much of this is because Lebanon's current economic policies are
not conducive to productivity increasing investments (CAS 2006). By the end of 2005
Lebanon's public debt had reached US$38 billion or about 170 percent of GDP, the
highest ratio in the world. While debt restructuring following the 2003 Paris II
Conference reduced the debt service by about a third to 11 percent of GDP this still puts
considerable pressure on government to reform its finances, particularly for subsidies to
the 64 public sector utilities and enterprises.

64.     Prime areas of risk to the projects' development outcomes are the large subsidies
to Electricité du Liban (discussed in para 45) that were about 1.5 percent of GDP
(US$326 million) in 2004, and municipal finances. Municipal finances are heavily
burdened with the operational costs of solid waste management and in 2003, for example,
this formed almost half of the budgetary support (US$ 116 million) supplied through the
extra-budgetary Independent Municipal Fund that is not subject to parliamentary
approval. Recent Bank AAA ­ the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (May
2005) ­ makes a strong recommendation that this lack of public accountability for IMF's
budget be rectified. Should it be then it is likely that budget request will be challenged by
parliament as has happened for public works and transportation, hydraulic and electric
resources, and environment ­ all sectors supported by the assessed projects. In the period
up to 2003, parliament reduced their budget requests of these sectors by 50 to 60 percent
compared with the national average reduction of about 11 percent. And recently the head
of the Association of Banks in Lebanon (the largest holders of the governement's debt)
argued that "the state must end waste in many ministries and named Electricité du Liban
as the best example of squandered resources" (The Daily Star, September 27, 2006.) Thus
external and internal pressure for reform may jeopardize future financing of solid waste
management in Lebanon.

Bank Performance

65.     Bank performance on ERRP is rated as satisfactory on quality at entry and
supervision and was overall rated as satisfactory. The Bank was extremely receptive and
responsive to the country's urgent reconstruction needs, preparing the project in six
months, and was very effective in garnering and coordinating support with other
development partners. Although initial damage estimates proved faulty, the design of the
project allowed the Bank to make timely adjustments as rehabilitation priorities changed.

                                              17


While the Bank was overoptimistic about the time needed to complete rehabilitation and
the existing capacity, this is not unusual in emergency situations, particularly as the Bank
had been absent from Lebanon during the period 1977-91. The extension of the project
by more than 5 years was unsatisfactory but it did enable several key policy reforms to be
introduced.

66.     Overall Bank performance on SWEMP is rated as unsatisfactory. The primary
reasons are that problems emanating from inadequate appraisal plagued project
implementation and led to extremely modest outcomes. The weak institutional status and
capacity of the municipalities was overlooked, the social aspects of consensus building
were underestimated, and insufficient resources were allotted to understanding and
mitigating social distrust on the government and the technical solutions proposed ­ and
this continued for most of the project's implementation.

67.     Quality of SWEMP at entry was unsatisfactory. An in-depth socio-economic
assessment would have revealed that there was a wide range of differing views in the
municipalities and Cazas about how solid waste should be managed in Lebanon
notwithstanding the government's sector strategy. There would have been time to forge a
consensus on a solid waste management strategy before embarking on a national program
because the ERRP had provided basic equipment to enable waste collection. If more
attention had been given to building local and national awareness in project design the
subsequent public objections to project activities may have been averted. Local
municipalities outside the project had proved to be quite creative ­ and highly aware of
local feelings on associated environmental impacts and what was acceptable to their
constituents. Thus in the short term the problems were contained and managed at local
levels according to local preferences, as for example in Greater Beirut.

68.     Supervision of SWEMP was unsatisfactory. The Bank should have been more
proactive in restructuring the project and/or cancelling the loan when implementation
faltered soon after effectiveness. Even then it took the Bank until 1999 before it exerted
pressure on the government to substantially modify the project scope and objectives.
Subsequently restructuring was delayed because of resistance from Ministry of Finance
to any cancellation of World Bank loans in order to avoid loss of confidence in
Lebanon's financial markets under the prevailing macroeconomic situation. In the
circumstances, and because of continued inability of project design to factor in measures
to assuage public and political concerns on technical solutions, it would have been better
to cancel the project and use alternative and more appropriate instruments to address
macroeconomic issues.

Borrower Performance

69.     Borrower performance on ERRP was satisfactory. CDR, as the government's
implementing agency, was very effective at coordinating with the donors that contributed
to the NERP and ERRP, planning the rehabilitation effort and managing the complex
array of government activities needed to establish the recovery program, and at contract
management. CDR was also directly involved in managing the studies and consultants in
the technical assistance component except those for the Ministry of Finance. Government
was effective in passing new laws and regulations (for water, telecommunications and

                                               18


electricity) but subsequent implementation has been patchy. Thus the implementing
agency and government performance is rated as satisfactory.

70.     In SWEMP the performance of government and implementing agencies is rated
unsatisfactory. In this project the foci of activities moved to sector ministries, line
agencies and municipalities, specifically the Ministry of Environment (MoE) and the
Ministry of the Interior and Municipalities (MIM.) MIM froze funding to the project
1999-2001 effectively closing it down and obstructing progress. MIM's and MOE's
support to CDR on site selection and public consultations was also very poor. Both
ministries proved to be very weak at sector coordination because of inadequate capacity
and the politicization of policies affecting municipal management of utilities. While there
was much discussion of sector policy within government, academia the NGOs and civil
society, ineffective ministerial leadership led to indeterminate outcomes on critical policy
issues. Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, particularly for procurement, also slowed
project implementation. As a result, for SWEMP the rating for overall borrower
performance is rated as unsatisfactory.


Looking Forward and Lessons

71.     Government efforts remain concentrated on slowly expanding infrastructure for
water supply, solid waste management and electricity and less on sector reform, although
the there were notable achievements in the Ministry of Finance and Telecommunications.
Institutional issues requiring cross-sectoral coordination have made little progress.
Attention to improving cost recovery, demand management and environmental
conservation has languished as government continues to subsidize the delivery of basic
services on response to political pressure. What little attention there was to long-range
planning, conservation, trade-offs, and efficiency improvements has become hostage to
the uncertain political climate and inability to bridge sectarian differences for the
common good. The most recent 34-day war between Hezbollah and Israeli starting July
2006 underscores the tremendous governance challenges in Lebanon in which political
authority is diffused, by design, among various sects and branches of government.

72.     The war killed 1,100, injured 4,000, displaced over a million people and
devastated infrastructure and the economy. In many respects the sectarian divides and
poor governance has recreated the emergency rehabilitation situation that Lebanon found
itself in the early 1990s. The damage to infrastructure assisted by ERRP and SWEMP is
unknown. According to preliminary estimates, overall direct and indirect damage may
have reached $7-9 billion. Direct damage to civilian infrastructure such as bridges, roads,
power stations, telecommunication systems and the airport, as well as damage to
residential and commercial buildings, is estimated at $3.6 billion. Indirect economic
losses and opportunity costs amount to $3-6 billion. The hardest hit sector is tourism,
which was expected to bring in 2-3 billion dollars to the economy and the government
has registered a drop of $1 billion in projected revenues from VAT, other taxes and
customs. The losses of the private sector, which has recorded a sharp fall in business

                                                 19


activity, have varied widely and have been hardest to assess as this sector is still suffering
from the general economic slowdown.7

73.     A major consequence of the war has been a sharp setback to public finances. The
Paris II reform plan agreed in 2002 aimed to assist government to reduce fiscal
imbalances, maintain fiscal stability and restore growth. The CAS (2006) notes that only
the second pillar ­ fiscal stability ­ was achieved through an injection of $2.4 billion for
restructuring of loans. Lack of consensus on the role of public enterprises and provision
of public goods and insufficient technical preparation hindered reduction of fiscal
imbalances, as did growing opposition to further fiscal adjustment. The effects of the war
exacerbate an already difficult situation. Government revenues are projected to drop by
$1 billion while spending is set to increase by $600 million to pay for emergency relief
and reconstruction. More recently, the Finance Minister stated that the total budget deficit
is projected to reach $3.85 billion dollars by the end of the year, almost twice the total
deficit for 2005. This will add to the already massive public debt, which is now expected
to reach $41 billion by the end of the year pushing up the debt-to-GDP ratio to record
highs, from 175% in 2005 to more than 190% by the end of 2006. Likely consequences
of the growing public debt will be that financing for operation and maintenance of public
infrastructure provided by ERRP and SWEMP will be further threatened (para 64.)

74.     Generally, inefficient water authorities charge prices considerably below the cost
of supply and unaccounted-for-water are typically about 60 percent due to faulty
distribution systems and theft. Cost recovery is low and this threatens the sustainability of
existing infrastructure. Lack of national resolve on solid waste management threatens
health and environmental quality. The master plan for solid waste management is focused
on landfills contracted to the private sector utilizing a modern fleet of waste disposal
trucks and equipment, covers 40 percent of the population living in greater Beirut and
large coastal cities ­ but neglects rural areas. Inadequate collection and disposal of solid
waste, particularly in rural areas, has led to indiscriminate dumping in 80 percent of
villages and open burning in the remainder. Little has changed in 15 years.

75.     The continued importance of sustainable natural resource and environmental
management is recognized by the Bank and forms the third pillar of the 2006 CAS.
However, even though a Bank proposal has been drafted to address this strategically and
to seek support and consensus of key stakeholders, the CAS proposes that no action will
be taken until there is a national consensus on strategy and solution to the governance
issues. And it is likely, as before, that essential institutional strengthening and reform in
the primary water supply, sanitation, solid waste and electricity service sectors will be
sidelined in the new national reconstruction program following the July 2006 war. As a
national consensus on solid waste management seems unlikely in the short to medium
term, the Bank may consider supporting additional pilot projects and PPP in the sector to
overcome the information asymmetry that thwarts a consensus on how to proceed.

76.     An international Donor Conference held in Stockholm at the end of August 2006
agreed on initial steps to assist Lebanon's reconstruction. About $940 million was



7. Economic Intelligence Unit. Lebanon ­ Country Report. September 2006.

                                              20


pledged for emergency relief projects, the rehabilitation of infrastructure and schools in
the south and the de-mining of border areas. This added to earlier pledges by Arab
countries of more than $1 billion that including $500 million from Saudi Arabia, $300
million from Kuwait, and a further $300 million from Qatar. The actual disbursement of
these funds has been slowed by concerns over the government's efficiency, the
transparency of reconstruction procedures, and intense competition between the
government and Hezbollah for the management of, and control over, the reconstruction
process.8 To alleviate concerns that the reconstruction process will not be marred, as in
the past, by lack of transparency, waste, corruption and mismanagement, Lebanese
officials have indicated that the funds will be placed in a special account to be overseen
by the Lebanese government, the UN and the World Bank.

Lessons

77.     Experience with this project confirms three IEG lessons:

Lesson 1. Avoid over-specifying the details of post-conflict reconstruction and give
adequate attention to institutional reform and capacity-building. One of the main reasons
for the success of Lebanon's ERRP was the flexibility introduced at the very origin of the
project that allowed re-allocations of funds between sectors according to demand and
readiness for implementation. Failure to address systemic institutional problems and
capacity constraints in parallel with the restoration of physical infrastructure may allow
continuation of out-dated practices, market failures and low levels of efficiency.

Lesson 2. Big bang approaches to solid waste management do not work when political
consensus and good governance are lacking. The failure of SWEMP stems mainly from
the lack of consensus on the government's overall strategy for solid waste management
albeit with some successful exceptions locally. Continued debate on the best way forward
among national and local politicians, NGOs and businessmen, combined with strong
local resistance to dump sites, effectively halted implementation and the project failed. In
the few places where local political consensus was achieved ­ following long, patient and
transparent dialogue built on clear information and sound technical advice on alternatives
­ the pilot project was successful.

Lesson 3. In the absence of national consensus on environmental management it is
better to develop local solutions that can later be scaled up. In the case of Lebanon's
solid waste management the primary issue appears to be lack of information
dissemination and little practical experience with solid waste disposal. Development of
pilots and study tours to orientate decision-makers and NGOs would inform the
contentious debate and pave the way for practical solutions.
.




8. Oxford Analytica. October 4, 2006.

                                          21                                  Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3562-LE)

KEY PROJECT DATA (AMOUNTS           IN US$ MILLION)

                                        Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                        estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate

Total project costs                       224            294.8             131

Loan amount                               175            219.7             125

Cofinancing                                10            30.4              304

Cancellation                                -             5.3                -



CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS

           FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03

Appraisal 20.0      70.0 135.0 165.0 175.0 175.0 175.0 175.0 175.0 175.0 175.0
estimate
(US$M)

Actual        0     23.9  81.7 110.0 134.9 155.5 174.9 186.7 196.6 212.1 219.6
(US$M)

Actual as     0      34    60   66     77    88     99   106    112   121   125
% of
appraisal

Date of final disbursement:



PROJECT DATES

                                              Original                 Actual

PCD                                              -                   02/06/1992

Appraisal                                        -                   11/17/1992

Board approval                                   -                   03/04/1993

Effectiveness                                    -                   09/17/1993

Closing date                                 12/31/1996              03/01/2002

Annex A                                           22


STAFF INPUTS (STAFF           WEEKS)

                                    No of staff weeks                            US$ (`000)

Identification/preparation                    -                                   380,258

Appraisal/negotiations                        -                                       -

Supervision                                   -                                   937,465

Completion                                    -                                    20,000

Total                                         -                                  1,337,723

Notes: The costs figures shown above associated with Identification/Preparation and Supervision exclude:
(1) Identification/Preparation TF026410 - $ 10,070
(2) Supervision                TF039389 - $ 37,774


MISSION DATA

      Stage of project cycle       No. of        Specializations represented        Implementati    Develop
        (Month/date/year)          persons                                          on progress      ment
                                                                                                   objective

 Identification/Preparatio
 n*
                 12/30/1992

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                 12/30/1992              7     SR.MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                               REG. PROC. ADVISOR, SR.
                                               FIN. ANALYST, SR. FIN.
                                               OFFICER, PR.MUNICIPAL
                                               ENGINEER, POWER
                                               ENGINEER, URBAN
                                               SPECIALIST
                 5/8/1993                7     SR.MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                               REG. PROC. ADVISOR, SR.
                                               FIN. ANALYST, SR FIN.
                                               OFFICER, PR.MUNICIPAL
                                               ENGINEER, POWER
                                               ENGINEER, URBAN
                                               SPECIALIST
  Supervision 8/19/1993                  3     URBAN SPEC. SR. FIN.
                                               ANALYST, SR. FIN.
                                               OFFICER, PR. MUNICIPAL
                                               ENGINEER
                 11/16/1993              5     SR.MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                               SR. FIN. ANALYST, ENVIR.
                                               SPECIALIST, PR. MUNICIPAL
                                               ENGINEER, POWER
                                               SPECIALIST
                 2/4/1994                3     SR. FIN. SNALYST, PRIVATE
                                               SECTOR SPEC., SR. POWER
                                               SPEC.
                 4/30/1994               5     CONSULTANT, SR. FIN.
                                               ANALYST, PRIV. SECT. SPEC.,
                                               PR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                               SR. POWER SPEC.

                                                    23                                           Annex A



    Stage of project cycle         No. of          Specializations represented       Implementati    Develop
       (Month/date/year)          persons                                            on progress      ment
                                                                                                    objective

               7/23/1994                  5      CONSULTANT, SR. FIN.                     HS        S
                                                 ANALYST, PRIV. SECT. SPEC.,
                                                 PR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER,
                                                 SR. POWER SPEC.
               10/14/1004                 4      CONSULTANT, SR. FIN.                     HS        HS
                                                 ANALYST, PRIV. SECT. SPEC.,
                                                 PR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
               7/19/1995                  4      CONSULTANT, SR. FIN.                     HS        S
                                                 ANALYST, SR. PSD SPEC.,
                                                 PRINC. ENGINEER
               2/11/1996                  3      CONSULTANT, SR. FIN.                     S         S
                                                 ANALYST, SR. PROJECTS
                                                 OFFICER
               7/25/1996                  3      SR. FIN. ANALYST, 2 HUMAN                S         S
                                                 RESOURCES SPEC.
               7/14/1997                  1      SR. SANITARY ENG.                        S         S
               9/30/1997                  1      SR. SANITARY ENG.                        S         S
               12/15/1997                 2      SR. SANITARY ENG.,                       S         S
                                                 ENGINEER
               5/12/1998                  2      SR. SANITARY ENG.                        S         S
                                                 ENGINEER-CONSULTANT
               2/16/1999                  3      SECTOR LEADER, FIN.                      S         S
                                                 ANALYST, SANITARY ENG.
               11/18/1999                 2      FIN. ANALYST, SANITARY                   S         U
                                                 ENG.
               2/2/2000                   2      FIN. ANALYST, SANITARY                   S         S
                                                 ENG.
               6/25/2000                  2      FIN. ANALYST, SANITARY                   S         S
                                                 ENG.
               12/8/2000                  2      FIN. ANALYST, SANITARY                   S         S
                                                 ENG.
               4/20/2001                  2      FIN. ANALYST, SANITARY                   S         S
                                                 ENG.
               12/1/2001                  4      FIN. ANALYST, SANITARY                   S         S
                                                 ENG., FINANCIAL
                                                 MANAGEMENT SPEC., PROC.
                                                 SPEC.
 ICR
               5/31/2002                 2        SR. FIN. ANALYST, SR.
                                                  ECONOMIST -
                                                  CONSULTANT

* Because of the emergency nature of the project, there was no identification/preparation missions prior to
Appraisal. The date shown above for identification/preparation mission implies it was done along with
appraisal.

Annex A                                      24


OTHER PROJECT DATA

Borrower/Executing Agency:

    FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS


Operation                                      Credit no.    Amount        Board date
                                                           (US$ million)

Ba'albeck Water and Wastewater Project       IBRD 71170        43.1         06/04/2002


Industrial/Hazardous Waste Mgmt Project        Technical       0.18         12/31/2001
                                              assistance



First Municipal Infrastructure Project         Ln. 7026        80.0         06/22/2000




Solid Waste Environmental Management Project (Loan 3899-LE)

KEY PROJECT DATA (AMOUNTS              IN US$ MILLION)

                                           Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
                                           estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate

Total project costs                          135            11.2               8

Loan amount                                   55            10.1               18

Cofinancing                                   55              0                 -

Cancellation                                   -            13.8                -



CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS

            FY96     FY97      FY98   FY99   FY00     FY01  FY02     FY03  FY04     FY05

Appraisal     2.6      9.2     24.8    38.2  49.2     53.4    55      55    55        55
estimate
(US$M)

Actual        0        0.2     0.4     3.9    4.5      5.9    6.1     8.2   9.9       9.9
(US$M)

Actual as      -        2       16     10      9       11     11      14    18        18
% of
appraisal

Date of final disbursement:

                                             25                                   Annex A


PROJECT DATES

                                                Original                    Actual

PCD                                                 -                    12/10/1993

Appraisal                                           -                    10/16/1994

Board approval                                      -                    06/06/1995

Effectiveness                                       -                    08/13/1996

Closing date                                  12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



STAFF INPUTS (STAFF        WEEKS)

                                No of staff weeks                    US$ (`000)

Identification/preparation            n.a.                               n.a.

Appraisal/negotiations                n.a.                               n.a.

Supervision                           161.3                             654.9

Completion                            6.8                               45.5

Total                                 213.3                             861.0



MISSION DATA

    Stage of project cycle    No. of    Specializations represented Implementati Developme
       (Month/date/year)     persons                                on progress  nt objective

 Supervision

               07/19/1995           4   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S      S
                                        ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                        SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                        (1); PRIVATE SECTOR DEV.
                                        (1)
               02/11/1996           5   CONSULTANT (1);                  S      S
                                        ENVIRONMENTALIST (2);
                                        SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                        (1); PRIV. SPECIALIST (1)
               05/17/1996           1   SR FINANCIAL ANALYST             S      S
                                        (1)
               00/00/0000           1   SR. ENV. SPEC. (1)               S      S
               10/30/1996           2   SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           U      S
                                        (1); SR. ENVIRONMENTAL
                                        SPEC (1)
               04/16/1997           2   PR. ENVIRONMENTAL                S      S
                                        SPEC (1); SOLID WASTE
                                        SPECIALIST (1)
               01/27/1998           3   PR. ENVIRONMENTAL                U      S
                                        SPEC (1); SOLID WASTE
                                        SPECIALIST (1); WASTE
                                        MANAGEMENT SPEC (1)
               08/13/1998           1   PR. ENV. SPECIALIST (1)          S      S

Annex A                                  26



  Stage of project cycle   No. of   Specializations represented Implementati Developme
    (Month/date/year)      persons                              on progress  nt objective

            05/16/1999           3  REGIONAL ENVIR. COORD.           U      U
                                    (1); SOLID WASTE MGT
                                    SPEC. (1); SR. ENVIRON.
                                    SPECIALIS (1)
            12/22/1999           3  PORTFOLIO MANAGER (1);           U      U
                                    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                    ENVIRONMENTAL
                                    SPECIAL. (1)
            05/27/2000           4  TEAM LEADER (1); SOLID           U      U
                                    WASTE/ENVIRONMEN (1);
                                    SOLID WASTE (1);
                                    PROCUREMENT (1)
            11/25/2000           1  TEAM LEADER (1)                  U      U
            01/26/2001           6  TEAM LEADER (1); SOLID           U      U
                                    WASTE SPECIALIST (1);
                                    PRIN. FIN. SPECIALIST (1);
                                    PROCUREMENT
                                    SPECIALIST (1); FM
                                    SPECIALIST (1); ENVIRON.
                                    SPECIALIST (1)
            06/16/2001           2  TEAM LEADER (1); SOLID           U      U
                                    WASTE MANAGEMENT (1)
            09/15/2001           1  TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S      S
            04/23/2002           4  TEAM LEADER (1); CO-             S      S
                                    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                    PROCUREMENT
                                    SEPCIALIST (1); FM
                                    SPECIALIST (1)
            11/13/2002           1  TTL & ENV SPECIALIST (1)         U      S
            08/26/2003           4  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U      U
                                    PUBLIC PARTICIAPTION
                                    (1); PROCUREMENT
                                    SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                    MANAGMENT (1)



ICR
            08/26/2003          4   TASK TEAM LEADER
                                    (1); PUBLIC
                                    PARTICIAPTION (1);
                                    PROCUREMENT
                                    SPECIALIST (1);
                                    FINANCIAL
                                    MANAGMENT (1)

                                          27                             Annex A


OTHER PROJECT DATA

Borrower/Executing Agency:

    FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS


Operation                                 Credit/Loan   Amount       Board date
                                              no.     (US$ million)

Ba'albeck Water and Wastewater Project    IBRD 71170     43.1        06/04/2002


Industrial/Hazardous Waste Mgmt Project    Technical     0.18        12/31/2001
                                           assistance



First Municipal Infrastructure Project     Ln. 7026      80.0        06/22/2000

