Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13548-CH&
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
TELECOHOMNICATIONS PROJECT
NOVEMBER 18. 1993
(Revised Version September 19 
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of July 15, 1993)
Currency Name      Renminbi
Currency Unit      Yuan (Y) - 100 Fen
US$ 1.00        = Y 5.8
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter         =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer    =  0.63 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AT&T      -   American Telephone and Telegraph
BITS      -   Swedish Board for Investments and Technical Support
CoCom     -   Co-ordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Control
CTBSC     -   China Telecommunications Broadcasting Satellite Corp.
DDD       -   Direct Distance Dialing
E-Mail    -   Electronic Mail System
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FAX       -   Facsimile Service
FRR       -   Financial Rate of Return
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IDD       -   International Direct Dialing
KDD       -   Kokusai Denshi Denwa
Mb/s      -   Megabits per second
MOF       -   Ministry of Finance
MOFTEC    -   Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation
MPT       -   Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
NPG       -   National People's Congress
PBX       -   Private Branch Exchange
P&T       -   Posts and Telecommunications Enterprise
PTA       -   Posts and Telecommunications Administration
ROR       -   Rate of Return
SAA       -   State Audit Administration
SOE       -   Statement of Expenses
SPB       -   State Pricing Bureau
SPC       -   State Planning Commission
TOR       -   Terms of Reference
VSAT      -   Very Small Aperture Terminal



i
CHINA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) and Posts and
Telecommunications Administrations (PTAs) in Heilongjiang,
Jiangsu and Liaoning Provinces.
Amount:          US$250.0 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years,  including five years  of grace,  at  the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
On-lending       Loan funds will be made available by the MOF to the MPT for
Terms:          the long distance and sector reform components, and directly
to the three provincial PTAs for the local investments, under
the same terms and conditions as the Bank's loan, the foreign
exchange risk being borne by the MPT and the PTAs.
Proiect          The objective of the proposed project is to help develop a
Obiectives:      modern commercial telecommunications sector that will evolve
increasingly towards allocation of resources on the basis of
market forces.  The project will include priority tasks that
are part of an agreed Medium Term Policy Action Program of
sector reform for 1994-97, thus helping develop conditions for
increasing  competition  and  private  participation.    The
Government expects the reforms will enable sustained rapid
sector  development  as  needed  to  overcome  widespread
telecommunications shortages which result in high costs
throughout the economy and impede effective implementation of
development programs in other productive and social sectors.
In the course of helping the Government achieve these
objectives, the project will finance investments in modern
technology for fiber optic long distance links connecting
eleven provinces and local digital switching in three
provinces.



ii
Benefits:       Accelerated reforms supported by the project will  contribute  to
sustained telecommunications expansion and modernization, which will
benefit all sectors of the economy countrywide.   The project also
directly supports development of the basic infrastructure in three
provinces included in the local network expansion program and in 11
other provinces served by the long distance cables. This will benefit
businesses and consumers in the rapidly growing market economy,
improve delivery of social services and government administ,ration, and
enhance the quality of life.
Risks:          There are two main risks regarding the reform component. First, there
is some uncertainty regarding the pace of the reform program agreed
with MPT. However, the Government's formal commitment to the Action
Program for 1994-97 and MPT's interest in subsequent Bank loans which
would be linked to further progress in sector reform, provide support
for change. The second risk is that MPT may be unable to change as
fast, as needed.   Measures to contain this risk have included Bank
assistance in legal and regulatory matters during project preparation
and would be followed up as part of the project.
The  main  risk  regarding  the  investment  comPonent  is  delayed
procurement of local switching equipment. However, MPT recognizes the
urgent need to greatly expand the urban telephone network in
developing industrial centers, and is likely to seek prompt action by
the PTAs.
Poverty
Cateqory:        Not Applicable



liii
Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
ESTIMATED COSTS:
Equipment & Services                 18.6      242.3     260.9
Construction and Installation       262.7        0.0     262.7
Training and Consultants'
Services                              0.0        1.6       1.6
Total Base Cost               281.3      243.9     525.2
Physical Contingencies               34.2       12.1      46.3
Price Contingencies                  12.8        9.4      22.2
Total Project Cost /a         328.3      265.4     593.7
Interest During Construction /b       0.0       29.3      29.3
Total Financing Required      328.3      294.7     623.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------_
FINANCING PLAN:
MPT and PTAs                        328.3       43.4     371.7
Grant from BITS /c                      -        1.3       1.3
IBRD                                    -      250.0     250.0
Total                               328.3      294.7     623.0
DISBURSEMENT:
Bank FY          1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
(US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__
Annual            5.8   170.2    64.7      7.3     1.0     1.0
Cumulative        5.8   176.0   240.7   248.0   249.0   250.0
Economic Rate of Return: 36t
Mar-: IBRD No. 25093
/a   Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.
/b   Interest during Construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected
disbursement of loan proceeds. Foreign exchange portion of IDC is based on
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
/c   Co-financing from the Swedish Board for Investments and Technical Support
(BITS).






iv
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Staff Aprraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     i
I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
A. Sector Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        .
B. Telecommunications Services and Networks . . . . . . . .      2
Local Telephone Services ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
Long Distance Network  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  4
Nonvoice and Other Facilities  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4
C. Service Access and Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
Access to Service  .5.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  S
Unmet   Demand   .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  6
Quality of Service ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
D. Manufacturing, Construction, and Procurement . . . . . .      7
E. Financial Performance  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Accounting and Financial Management  . . . . . . . . . .       7
Tariffs  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  a
F. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector . .      9
II.   SECTOR  REFORM   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
A. Sector Strategy and the Beginnings of Reform (1988-91)        10
B. Sector Reforms Accelerate (1991-93)  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
C. Next Stage of Reforms (1994-97) ............ .               11
This report is based on the findings of a June/July 1993 appraisal mission
comprising Bjorn Wellenius (task manager), Alberto Cruzat, David Delgado, and
Peter Wright. Alfred Kennefick, Natalie Lichtenstein, Naiqin Lu, Nicholas Miller
(consultant), and R. Venkateswaran assisted in selected matters.   The peer
reviewers were Dinshaw Joshi (engineering), Selina Shum (finances), Peter Harrold
(economics and country strategy), and Timothy Nulty (sector policy).   The
Division Chief is Richard Newfarmer and the Department Director is Shahid Javed
Burki.



v
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
III. THE PROJECT   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ....... .       14
A. Project Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  .14
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   14
C. Project Description   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
D. Reform Components   ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  15
Enterprise Accounting   .5..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iS
Tariffs   ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
Legal and Regulatory Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   18
E. Investment Components   ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  19
Long Distance Investments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  19
Local Telephone Switching Investments   . . . . . . . . .                  19
Project Investments and the Overall Investment Program .                   20
F. Status of Project Preparation   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   21
G. Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   21
H. Project Implementation   . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .                   23
I. Procurement   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
J. Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .                   26
K. Audits  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  26
L. Environmental and Health Aspects . . . . . . . . . . . .                    26
M. Monitoring, Reporting, and Supervision . . . . . . . . .                    27
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    28
A. Past and Present Financial Performance    . . . . . . . .                   28
B. Projected Financial Performance and Targets   . . . . . .                   32
C. Tariffs   ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  35
D. Financial Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   35
E. Economic Benefits and Rate of Return . . . . . . . . . .                    36
F. Project Risks   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  37
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . .                     38
A.  Agreements   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  38
B. Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    39



vi
ANNEXES
1.1   Access to Telephone Services in Selected Countries . . .        43
1.2    Basic Statistics of Networks and Services . . . . .  . .       44
1.3    Installed Local Exchange Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . .       45
1.4    Long Distance Exchange Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . .       47
1.5    Telephone Lines and Service/100 Population   . . . . . .       48
1.6    Telephone Demand and Supply in Urban Areas   . . . . . .       49
1.7    Quality of Telephone Service   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       50
2.1    Summary of Recommendations of Sector Study . . . . . . .       51
2.2    Outline of Sector Reforms in 1994-97 . . . . . . . . . .       53
2.3    Policy Letter from Vice-Minister of MPT  . . . . . . . .       59
3.1    Accounting Systems Development & Training TOR  . . . . .       67
3.2    Study of Telecommunications Tariffs Terms of Reference .       71
3.3    Long Distance Investment Component . . . . . . . . . . .       75
3.4    Fiber Optic Cable from Beijing to Lanzhou  . . . . . . .       81
3.5    Fiber Optic Cable from Hangzhou/Fuzhou to Chengdu  . . .       85
3.6    Heilongjiang Province  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       89
3.7    Liaoning  Province    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  97
3.8    Jiangsu  Province   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  105
3.9    Project Cost by Year   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      113
3.10   Project Timetables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      115
3.11   Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  117
3.12   Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      121
3.13   Environmental Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      123
3.14   Performance Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      125
3.15   Progress Reports and Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . .      127
4.1    Historical Financial Statements 1988-1992  . . . . . . .      131
4.2    Rate of Return by Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      137
4.3    Financial Statements Projection Methodology  . . . . . .      139
4.4    Projected Financial Statements 1993-2000 . . . . . . . .      145
4.5    Tariffs  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  151
4.6    Return on Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      153
5.1    List of Documents in Project Files .       . . . . . . . . . .  155
FIGURES AND TABLES IN THE TEXT
1.1    Telephone Lines In Service and Telephone Density . . . .        2
3.1    Estimated Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       22
3.2  Project Financing Plan .23
3.3    Summary of Procurement Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . .       25
3.4    Disbursement of Bank Loan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       26
4.1    Summary Historical Financial Statements, 1988-92 . . . .       29
4.2    Key Ratios and Historical Financial Indicators, 1988-92        30
4.3    Summary Projected Financial Statements, 1993-2000  . . .       33
4.2    Key Ratios and Projected Financial Indicators, 1993-2000       34
MAP IBRD Map No. 25093






I. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
1.1       The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) is the functional
organ of the State Council responsible for postal and telecommunications services
throughout China.   Its main responsibilities are: to formulate the policies,
laws, plans, and reform programs related to these services and to supervise their
implementation; to participate in international telecommunications organizations
on behalf of the state; to set and enforce telecommunications standards; to
coordinate the dedicated telecommunications networks of numerous ministries and
state enterprises; to oversee and regulate the posts and telecommunications
operating entities and administrative agencies throughout the country; and to
engage directly in the operation and management of various telecommunications and
postal services. The MPT, including its reporting entities, has 15 headquarters
departments and about 1,200,000 employees (of which 49% are attached to
telecommunications) in the whole country. A number of other agencies, mainly the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), the State Planning Commission (SPC), and the State
Pricing Board (SPB), also have jurisdiction over certain telecommunications
sector matters.
A. Sector Organization
1.2       Public telecommunications networks and services are operated by MPT
through some 2,500 Posts and Telecommunications Enterprises (P&Ts) at the
municipal/city and county levels, organized in a hierarchical structure. Each
of about 2,150 county P&Ts provides local service in the county capital and
extensions to the county's rural areas. At the next higher level, each of some
350 municipal/city P&Ts provide local service in the respective urban and close
rural areas, and coordinates development and operation of the long distance
network with and among the subordinate county P&T enterprises. Thirty of these
municipal/city P&Ts are in the provincial capitals.   One further step up,
coordination of long distance networks among municipal/city P&Ts is the responsi-
bility of each of 30 provincial P&T Administrations (PTAs), which are distinct
from the municipal/city P&Ts that provide local service in the provincial
capitals. Paralleling the provincial PTAs, the central MPT is responsible for
coordinating inter-provincial and international long distance services,
investment planning, consolidated accounts, and other operational functions on
a nation-wide basis. Administrative functions follow the same hierarchy.
1.3       Large industrial complexes (e.g., oil fields, mines) are allowed by MPT
to provide public telecommunications services in their limited areas. Many other
ministries and public enterprises (mainly the ministries of railways, water
resources, electric power, petroleum, forestry, river and coastal navigation, and
the armed forces and police) have their own dedicated networks to meet their
specialized needs and overcome shortages in the public network. Likewise, small
exchanges, financed and installed partially or wholly by rural communities, are
allowed connection to the public network.



- 2 -
B. Telecommunications Services and Networks
1.4       China has the largest public telecommunications system among developing
countries, the third largest in Asia (after Japan and the Republic of Korea), and
the twelfth largest worldwide (Annex 1.1).
1.5       In support of economic reforms taking place in the country, steps were
taken as early as 1978 to accelerate telecommunications development. Targets
under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) were directed at (a) development in
medium-size, coastal cities which are open to foreign joint venture investment,
and (b) modernization and expansion of the long distance and international
networks. During this period the telecommunications sector's growth rate began
surpassing that of the national economy (twice the GDP), marking an important
turning point. The Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) targets continued expansion
of the domestic long distance network, with 21 projects providing about 100,000
km of fiber optic cable and microwave radio facilities, and the installation of
20 million additional lines of local digital switching equipment (to a total of
over 32 million lines installed). The Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-2000) is yet
to be fully formulated, but MPT expects to exceed 90 million installed telephone
lines by the year 2000.
1.6       The number of telephone lines in service experienced an average annual
growth rate of 15% for the period 1986 to 1990.   This high rate of growth
continues.   In 1991,  the number of lines in service grew to 9.3 million
representing an increase of 21% over the previous year. In 1992 it grew to 12.2
million representing an increase of 32%. Over the first six months of 1993, more
than 2.2 million telephones lines were installed in cities. This marks a record
increase for a half year.  MPT forecasts a sustained growth equivalent to at
least 20% annually to the year 2000 (Figure 1.1) . These achievements and targets
are well above what any other developing nation has ever experienced.
60                                              10
509
S
Lines     6
.30 
.E20
204                                               3 
10                                  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                              0
oo  4  co c-  o2 go co   g co co °0  C)   °> °% >
Year
Figure 1.1 - Telephone Lines in Service and Telephone Density



-3-
Local Telephone Service
1.7      By the end of 1992 there was an installed switching capacity of 19.2
million lines. This included 13.5 million lines in the urban network, of which
9.4 million, or 70%, were in digital exchanges, and 5.7 million lines in the
rural networks.   The local telephone system is still dominated by analog
technologies, despite recent progress in modernization. Many towns are served
with obsolete electromechanical equipment manufactured in China in the 1960s and
1970s, and in rural areas most of the local exchanges are still manual.
1.8      The total number of lines in service in 1992 was 12.2 million, of which
9.8 million were in the urban network, and 2.4 million lines in rural areas
(Annex 1.2). Lines in service vary considerably among provinces, from about 2.1
million lines in Guangdong to 10,600 in Tibet (Annex 1.3). In 1992 local traffic
totaled approximately 32 billion calls.  MPT indicates that about 24 billion
calls were made in the first six months of 1993, a rise of 70% over the same
period in 1992.
1.9      Development of the local telephone access cable networks has lagged
behind that of exchanges, resulting in idle switching capacity. Nationwide in
1992 only 64t of the exchange lines were connected to subscribers. In the urban
areas 72% of capacity was utilized, compared with over 90% that normally should
be expected given the existence of large unmet demand. This is a major problem
in many developing countries, resulting from the complexity of constructing
underground cable works on a continuing basis and the relative ease of cutting
back on cable network construction when funds are limited.   This has been
recognized by several of the PTAs and considerable effort and funds are planned
to be directed to correcting this situation.l/
1.10     Extensive use is made of private branch exchanges (PBXs) to provide
telephone service in urban office and residential developments.   In 1991,
although only about 6% of the urban lines in service were used as trunks for
PBXs, they supported about 47% of the connected telephones. This proportion is
far higher than in other countries (e.g., India 18%, Thailand 26%) where direct
lines are also in short supply.
1.11     Rural telephone service is mainly provided by the municipal/city and
county P&Ts.   However, many of the rural telephone lines are operated by
cooperatives and local governments in townships and villages.   This mixed
operation is the result of a demand that cannot be satisfactorily met by the
P&Ts. Although the percentage of installed lines which are in operation in small
rural exchanges can be expected to be lower than in larger urban exchanges, out
of the total installed rural capacity of 5.67 million lines in 1992, the ratio
of only 42% is low, and provides some opportunity for expansion.
jI/  Support from the municipal governments to attact foreign investment for development of the local economy has led the local P&Ts
to plan for grmater expenditure in expanding urban access cable networks in the 1993-2000 period. In Heilongjiang province their
objective is to improve urban utilization from 79% in 1991 to 90% by 2000. Similar utilization improvement objectives in Jiangsu
are from 62% to 90%. and in Liaoning from 67% to S7%.



-4-
Long Distance Network
1.12      Backbone routes mainly use medium- and low-capacity coaxial cables, and
analog microwave radio systems of indigenous design and manufacture installed in
the late 1960s. Modern 34Mb/s and 140Mb/s capacity digital microwave and fiber
optic systems are increasingly being added beginning from the late 1980s.
1.13      The domestic long distance satellite network is composed of two
geostationary satellites (which were designed, built, and launched by China),
transponders leased and bought from INTELSAT and ASIASAT, and 42 large (30 m
diameter) earth stations. In addition to TV channels, there are approximately
2,000 satellite backbone telecommunications trunks linking 7 major cities.
Completion of a further 19 large earth stations by 1994, equipped with digital
transmission terminals, will increase the satellite backbone capacity by
approximately 10,000 channels. In addition, there are presently more than 600
VSATs (Very Small Aperture Terminals) and other earth stations (6m up to 16m in
diameter) of various types.   It is estimated that the total number of VSATs
required to serve private networks and smaller access points will grow to several
thousands by 1995.
1.14      International  service  is provided  through  gateways  in  Beijing,
Shanghai, and Guangzhou using more than 5,000 satellite circuits via five earth
stations as well as terrestrial microwave and optical fiber cable circuits to
Hong Kong and Macao and submarine cable circuits accessed though the Sino-
Japanese submarine cable. AT&T (USA) and KDD (Japan) have agreed to build a new
1,200 km submarine optical fiber cable between Shanghai and Kyushu (Japan) to
expand communications capacity with both Japan and the USA. International direct
dialing (IDD) calls can be made to 198 destinations throughout the world.
1.15      In 1992,  domestic long distance traffic was 2.67 billion calls,
representing an increase of 68% over the previous year. MPT indicates that in
the first six months of 1993 2.09 billion domestic direct dial (DDD) calls were
made, an increase of 89% over the same period in 1992.   International long
distance traffic was 207 million calls in 1992, representing an increase of 46%
over 1991. Eighty-six percent of long distance calls in 1992 were completed by
the automatic network.
1.16        By the end of 1992 there were 234,276 domestic and international long
distance circuits available in the national network (Annex 1.2). Long distance
domestic exchange circuit termination capacity (which leads the actual number of
connected circuits by a period of one to two years) almost doubled from 1990 to
1992.   Future planned growth of exchange capacity at 24% annually (over the
period to 1997) recognizes the vast unsatisfied demand (Annex 1.4).
Nonvoice and Other Facilities
1.17      The telex network connects about 14,600 telex subscribers in 118 cities
(Annex 1.2). Telex uses both the public switched telephone network access and
separate telex switches. Telegraph in China continues to be widely used. The
annual volume is about 282 million telegrams, with more than 80% handled through
the use of intelligent terminals. Traffic is expected to remain at about the
present level through the year 2000. Other services include public facsimile
(FAX), with about 200,000 machines in use and generating 1.7 million messages per



- 5 -
year; videotex, in an experimental stage, expected to grow to about 5,000 users
by 1995; and electronic mail systems (E-Mail), with a capacity of 18,000
mailboxes, currently being put into operation in six major cities.
1.18      A public packet switched data network for domestic and international
data traffic began service in 1989 and presently has more than 800 users. This
network allows telephone and telex subscribers in all provincial capitals to
access computer communication, high-speed facsimile, data bases and other
advanced services as and when these become available. A new network is 'being put
into service in 1993 to provide service to all the capital cities of provinces
or municipalities.  The total number of ports is expected to reach 10,000 by mid-
1993, with forecast annual growth rates of 50% through 1995.
1.19      Cellular telephones have proliferated, particularly in the coastal
cities and special economic zones, and help to overcome local wired telephone
shortages.  By the end of 1992, cellular telephone systems had been put into
operation in 350 cities with about 177,000 subscribers. Radio paging systems
were in place in about 1,075 cities with some 2.2 million subscribers.
C. Service Access and Quality
1.20      Despite rapid growth in recent years, the Chinese telecommunications
system is nowhere near meeting pent-up and rapidly growing demand. Local and
long distance service quality is still poor in many areas, and many parts of the
system are obsolete and costly to maintain and operate.
Access to Service
1.21      China's density of 1.03 telephone lines in service per 100 inhabitants
as of 1992 is one of the lowest among large developing countries, and lags far
behind the newly industrialized and developed countries.   Even with forecast
telephone density of 2.5 by 1997, this situation will remain for many years.
Annex 1.1 gives some comparative examples for telephone density as of 1991.
1.22      Telephone line density varies considerably among provinces, ranging
from 0.4 in Henan to 5.9 in Shanghai.  While  the municipalities of Beijing,
Shanghai, and Tianjin average 4.7 lines per 100 inhabitants, the provinces and
autonomous regions have only 0.9 (Annex 1.5).
1.23      Although the number of P&Ts' public pay phones is extremely low, the
public is also served by private entrepreneurs who offer "sidewalk" telephone
service for a charge - a practice which appears to receive tacit approval by the
P&Ts.
1.24      Rural telecommunications are widely spread and most communities have
access to service.   However,  recent telecommunications investment is being
directed mainly to the major cities and industrial development zones. Although
almost 20% of all telephone lines in service is in rural areas, average growth
of subscribers from 1988 to 1992 was only 6.4% annually as compared with 26% in
urban areas.



-6-
Unmet Demand
1.25      In 1988 there were 0.5 million outstanding registered applicants for
telephone service in the urban areas.  In spite of rapid growth in connected
lines, this increased to 1.6 million in 1992. Over 29% of these applications
were in the municipality of Shanghai and another 201 were in the province of
Guangdong. Nationally, outstanding registered applications equalled 17" of urban
lines in service (Annex 1.6) . Registered applications continue to increase, and
this is not expected to change appreciably until after 1995.
1.26      Total unmet demand is likely to be much higher. Experience in other
developing countries indicates that when, as in China, there are acute service
shortages, the number of outstanding registered applicants greatly understates
total unmet demand. Furthermore, demand registration is being restricted by high
installation fees.   While high installation fees are useful to price-ration
scarce supply and help finance investment, they cloud the full magnitude of
potential demand for service.
Quality of Service
1.27      Fault Rate and Repair Time.  The incidence and duration of faults
appears to be considerably better than in other developing countries. China's
reported average of 5.3 faults per 100 telephone lines per month is lower than
in other Asian developing countries (e.g., Indonesia 6.5, Philippines 12, India
19) and comparable to that in some developed countries.   In recent years the
average duration of faults in switching and inter-office facilities has improved
significantly (from 4.7 hours in 1988 to 0.2 hours in 1992), as a result of the
introduction of digital stored program control (SPC) exchanges and fiber optic
digital inter-exchange facilities (Annex 1.7).
1.28      The fault rate varies considerably among provinces and municipalities,
from 0.03 faults per 100 lines per month in Jiangsu to 21 in Shaanxi (including
eleven regions in excess of five faults per 100 lines per month). Performance is
probably affected by important differences among PTAs regarding maintenance
organization, reporting and recording practices, availability of fault location
and test equipment, and other factors.
1.29      Call Completion Rate.  Telephone service is severely congested and is
probably unusable in many places during peak business hours. On average, only
about 58% of local calls and 31% of domestic long distance calls are completed
(Annex 1.7). These results are slightly better than in some other Asian
developing countries (e.g., Indonesia 40t and 20% respectively in a sample of 50
cities), falling far short of about 70% in well developed systems. Experience in
other developing countries suggests that the low completion rate of local calls
is largely due to shortages in telephone lines. When the supply of lines falls
far short of demand, the few available lines are in use an excessive proportion
of the time, frustrating incoming call attempts. Extensive use of PBXs, while
making it possible to provide service to more urban subscribers than could be
otherwise achieved with the small number of available lines, results in average
traffic per line well in excess of normal design ranges, contributing to local
traffic congestion.



1.30      The low completion rate for domestic long distance calls indicates the
existence of major shortages in transmission facilities (cables and microwave
systems) . Completion rates vary somewhat among provinces, with the lowest being
42% in Shanghai, perhaps indicative of its high usage of long distance services.
In a few provinces the averages are in the range of what would be expected in
well-developed networks (Annex 1.7).  In recent years, domestic long distance
call completion rates have improved in most of the country, which is a reflection
of the rapid expansion in long distance circuits, averaging 39% annual growth
since 1989.
D. Manufacturing, Construction, and Procurement
1.31      Telecommunications equipment and materials required by P&Ts at all
levels are procured from domestic and international markets. Modern switching
equipment is imported or manufactured in China in association with leading world
suppliers. Network construction and installation is carried out mainly by China
National  Telecommunications  Construction  Company2/,  with  five  regional
branches, 71 other companies reporting to provincial PTAs, and other construction
companies.
1.32      Procurement, both domestic and international, is generally based on
inviting quotations from a wide range of suppliers. Competitive bidding is used
in projects financed by foreign loans.  The P&Ts procure telecommunications
equipment from the international market when domestic products or manufacturing
capacity cannot meet their needs.  The main criteria for the P&Ts to choose
telecommunications equipment relate to technical standards, quality, cost
(including future operating and maintenance costs), and after-sales service. MPT
is responsible for setting and enforcing standards of equipment quality and
performance, closely related to the set of technical specifications that govern
the manufacturing, procurement, installation, and operation of every component
in the network. MPT advises provincial PTAs regarding the procurement, and in
turn these provide advice and guidance to subordinate P&Ts.
E. Financial Performance
1.33      MPT's services are overall profitable. Financial performance, however,
varies considerably among services and provinces, and large cross-subsidies take
place within the telecommunications sector, and between telecommunications and
posts, indicating a need for revising tariffs. Successive increases in postal
tariffs in recent years to reduce the transfer from the telecommunications sector
have been rapidly offset by inflation.
Accounting and Financial Management
1.34      MPT's accounting system is based on norms prescribed for all Chinese
state enterprises.   Historically, MPT's accounts had some features that were
consistent with internationally accepted principles (e.g., double entry, historic
valuation of assets), but differed from these principles in important ways --
treatment of personnel expenditures, debt, equity, and work in progress -- common
to all Chinese enterprises.   Other differences with international accounting
principles include the treatment of depreciation, various earmarked funds, and
2/  An enterpnse established from former constrution depaunents of MPT.



- 8 -
the grouping of expenses, which were specific to MPT. Effective July 1, 1993,
MOF introduced a moc .fied accounting system which reflects the decision to follow
the basic principles underlying accounting practices in developed market-oriented
economies.
1.35      Financial statements for the urban network are prepared by the 2,500
municipal/city P&T enterprises and county operating entities; they are
consolidated at the level of provincial PTAs.  Each PTA prepares an income
statement up to the point of determining the difference between revenues and
expenditures.   However, the final enterprise net profit is determined after
calculating the long distance revenue re-distribution using the so-called
"economic accounting system". After calculation of the net profit, calculation
of taxes, personnel bonus and welfare payments, and own investment funds is done.
Each PTA also produces a balance sheet. Separate financial statements, with less
detail than those for the urban network, are prepared at the provincial level by
each P&T rural branch.
1.36      The accounting system in use up to July 1, 1993 was not well suited for
managing the P&Ts as commercial enterprises, and full implementation of the new
commercial accounting system will take some years.   However,  the general
direction of the recent changes is correct.  For instance, among the changes
introduced, the payment of bonuses, which was earlier reported outside the income
statement, will be incorporated into this statement, and the payment of pensions,
which was included as a negative Net non-Operating Revenue, will also be
incorporated into the income statement. Additionally, new depreciation rules
recognize shorter useful lives for some telecommunications equipment, and allow
accelerated depreciation for switching equipment. Two of the main outstanding
issues are: (a) adjustment to the long distance revenue re-distribution system
resulting from a tariff study to be carried out under the proposed project (see
para. 3.15), and (b) changes in the housing system which could result in an
increasing amount of welfare funds being transferred to salaries.
Tariffs
1.37      Tariffs mainly comprise (a) charges to apply for service and become
connected to the network (installation fees), (b) access charges to remain
connected to the network (sometimes including a limited number of local calls),
and (c) call charges (local, domestic long distance, and international) . In the
past, countrywide uniform telecommunications tariffs were set by the central MPT
subject to approval by the SPB. However, MPT has been delegating more pricing
responsibilities to the P&Ts.  At present, the MPT rates are mainly used as
guidelines by the P&Ts to set their own local rates, and add surcharges on local
and long distance rates, with the approval of the provincial pricing bureaus
3/ .
1.38      Compared with other large countries, initial telephone connection fees
in China are high, access and local call charges are low, and international call
charges are high. Annex 4.5 presents a summary of basic tariffs with indication
of typical surcharges.
3/  The difference between officially established rtes and locally applied surcharges is that the provincial financial statements to MPT only
reflect the effect of the official rtes - revenues generted by the surharges are not reponed to MPT.



1.39      The connection fee (Yuan 1,000-5,000, varying by city) is very high
compared to the incremental cost of connecting a subscriber to the network and
also in terms of Chinese incomes. This serves both to finance investments and
to ration scarce new connections. The high connection fee, however, has adverse
welfare effects, since it essentially places the telephone outside the reach of
the vast majority of the population. The high initial payment is partly offset
by the low local service monthly charges, which may include up to 300 calls, and
which are about one-tenth of those in other countries (including North America
where some subsidy of local service still remains). This practice, if sustained
in the long term, is likely to both suppress connections demand and lead to
insufficient revenue to meet operating costs.
F. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.40      Although this would be the first telecommunications loan to China,
there have been substantial telecommunications components in railway projects,
and special efforts are under way to coordinate Bank work in both sectors. The
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2423-CHA) also includes
support for developing a satellite-based bank payments system, which is
consistent with Bank policy recommendations in the telecommunications sector.
Accounting reform under the telecommunications project is consistent with the
more general activities under the Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project
and the Planning Support and Special Studies Project (Credit 2423-CHA) being
implemented by MOF.
1.41      From the late 1980s, the Bank has been involved in an increasing number
of telecommunications restructuring programs in other countries. Traditional
state monopoly utilities are giving way to market-driven business structures
featuring greater private sector participation, increasing competition, and a
shift of government role from ownership and operation to policy and regulation.
These reforms aim at overcoming persistent shortages of telecommunications
services, which have come to be widely perceived as critical constraints on
economic development. The reforms under way in China are consistent with this
trend. In particular, the private sector already has a strong presence. For
example, major telecommunications equipment is manufactured in China by joint
ventures with the world's leading suppliers, and independent companies provide
paging services in over 1,000 cities. The next steps of reform supported by the
project are expected to create new opportunities for private participation. For
example, some operating enterprises to be spun off from MPT will become joint-
stock companies; P&Ts will start issuing bonds; cellular and other advanced
services will be opened to competition, presumably by a wide mix of public and
privately owned companies; and several large Chinese consortia are reportedly
vying to enter the long distance and other fast-growing market segments currently
reserved for MPT.   State Council decisions expected by the end of 1993, and
legislation and regulations being prepared as part of the project, will further
clarify the prospects for domestic and foreign private investors and operators.
1.42      More detailed information on the telecommunications sector is available
in Report No. 9413-CHA, "People's Republic of China, Telecommunications Sector
Study: Survey, Assessment and Strategy Recommendations, " issued February 14,
1992.



- 10 -
H. SECTOR REFORM
2.1       The Government has underway an ambitious program for telecommunications
development, the success of which is central to realizing the economic growth
objectives of China. The development program comprises accelerated expansion and
modernization of the telecommunications network, as well as a process of sector
reform begun in the 1980s and likely to continue beyond the 1990s. The main
thrust of sector reform aims at transforming the operating entities into
commercial enterprises and developing an increasingly competitive market of
telecommunications  equipment,  networks,  and  services.    This  strategy  is
consistent with the Bank's overall approach to economic reforms in China.
A. Sector Strategy and the Beginnings of Reform (1988-91)
2.2       The reform process began with a reorganization of MPT initiated in 1988
aimed at gradually (a) separating enterprise from government functions, (b)
decentralizing management decisions, (c) making each operating enterprise
responsible for its profits and losses, and (d) separating telecommunications and
postal operations. By 1991, important progress had been made along these lines.
In particular:
-  decision-making with regard to operations, network development, and
financing had been shifted from MPT headquarters to the 2,500 city and
county P&Ts;
-  as a step towards increasing P&T accountability as well as day-to-day
management independence from local and central governments, a contract
responsibility system was established focusing on output, quality, and
financial targets;
-  at MPT headquarters, two directorates-general, one each for posts and
telecommunications, had become mainly responsible for operations,
while government functions started to cluster around existing and new
administrative departments;
-  postal operations had been separated in all provincial capital cities,
trials were under way in several other places, and accounts were
separated at all levels; and
- manufacturing, construction, and purchasing departments of MPT were
transformed into separate legal entities and began to operate more
like businesses in increasingly competitive markets.
2.3     The Bank's Sector Study (para. 1.42) recognized the importance of these
initial changes, and recommended taking the reform process much farther. This was
deemed necessary to attract new sources of capital and entrepreneurial talent to
sustain rapid network growth and modernization, as well as to enhance efficiency
and encourage innovation. Five main areas for further reform were emphasized:



- 11 -
(a) reorganize operations along fully commercial lines, including reform of P&T
enterprises, (b) diversify the supply of telecommunications services and networks
and develop competition, (c) rationalize tariffs and reduce cross-subsidies, (d)
develop regulation, and (e) separate posts from telecommunications. A summary
of the main recommendations is in Annex 2.1. Further details are in the Sector
Study, pp 21-40.
B. Sector Reforms Accelerate (1991-93)
2.4     In the early 1990s, growth of the telecommunications system continued to
accelerate to new world record levels while unit investment costs dropped to
about one-half of the average in Bank projects in other countries. At the same
time, the reform process gathered considerable momentum. In particular, by 1993:
- the P&Ts effectively are permitted to choose among competing domestic
(and to some extent foreign) suppliers of network equipment; prices
recently paid by the P&Ts for major equipment, which accounts for
about 38% of MPT's $5 billion 1993 investment program, are among the
lowest in the world 1/;
- subscriber terminal equipment 2/ is provided to end users under
competition by many domestic manufacturers, mostly associated with
foreign suppliers; as a result, a wide range of products, of better
quality and at lower prices, has become available;
- a vibrant market for residential and small-business telephone service
has built up, where virtually none existed only a few years ago;
- many companies compete to provide radio paging services, and now have
some 2.2 million users in about 1,075 cities and towns 3/; and
- major users are developing new networks for their own use and for use
by related entities as alternatives to MPT's public network, and
existing dedicated networks by Government entities have been expanded
and modernized.
C. Next Stage of Reforms (1994-97)
2.5        The Government intends to move considerably further along the reform
road in the next four years, mainly as follows (further details are in Annex
2.2):
I/  Major nerwork equipment is manufactured in China through joint ventures with the world's leading suppliers (e.g.. Alcatel. Ericsson,
Siemens). In addition to manufacturing capabilities, the foreign partners are investing in building up domestic research and development.
The latest additions have been the highly publicized contract with AT&T and, more rccently, a memorandum of understanding with
Northern Telecom of Canada.
2V  Such as telephones sets, fax machines. data modems, PBX, and PABX.
3t For example, in the city of Hangzhou, in addition to the city P&T there are 10 companies.



- 12 -
- Restructure APT: the State Council will decide on a reorganization of
MPT. DGT and DGP will become autonomous operating units respectively.
This will eventually lead to the MPT's operation departments being
reorganized as separate state-owned enterprises, and the MPT focusing
mainly on policy, regulation and strategic planning; spin off new
national enterprises for non-basic services; further separate
telecommunications and posts; take steps towards transferring
responsibility for workers' welfare to other organizations; and
refocus the scaled-down MPT on policy, regulation, and strategic
planning.
- Develop ccopetition: competing providers of cellular, trunk mobile,
domestic VSAT, and other wireless services will be licensed; dedicated
networks will be allowed to lease capacity, provide service to others,
and interconnect with the public network; and there will be open entry
for providers of value added services.
-  Rationalize tariffs and reduce cross-subsidies:   revise tariffs in
relation to costs; revise and further decentralize tariff setting and
approval procedures; raise postal tariffs and gradually end cross-
subsidy from telecommunications to posts.
-  Introduce modern  management  tools:    design  improved  enterprise
accounting systems and procedures; implement these in two pilot
provinces; and extend them to all provinces, including training of
some 25,000 staff.
- Attract new capital:   manufacturing,  construction,  and non-basic
services enterprises spun off from MPT that meet Government require-
ments will become organized under the new companies law; P&Ts will
start to raise long-term financing by issuing bonds in the domestic
markets; and users and others will be encouraged to invest in new
business networks and possibly to build-out local infrastructure.
- Develop legal and regulatory framework: issue basic telecommunications
regulations for competitive services, dedicated networks, and
interconnection of dedicated and public networks; submit a telecom-
munications law to the National People's Congress.
2.6     A Medium Term Policy Action Program is presented in Table 2.1. The Action
Program was agreed with MPT in 1991 and updated in July 1993. It reflects the
main sector changes achieved and planned by the end of 1993 and further reforms
expected in 1994-95 and 1996-97. The pace and extent of these reforms exceed
those envisaged at the time of the Sector Study, and are consistent with its
recommendations.
2.7     The Government's intention to carry out the Action Program has been
confirmed in a policy letter to the Bank from a Vice Minister of Posts and
Telecommunications (Annex 2.3).
2.8     The proposed project will support the implementation of three priority
tasks in the Action Program:   improvement of enterprise accounting systems,



- 13 -
policies and procedures; undertaking of a study of telecommunications tariffs and
preparation of a plan and timetable to adjust tariffs; and development of a basic
legal and regulatory framework for the sector.
2.9     In addition, in supervising the proposed project, the Bank will monitor
closely the Government's progress in implementing the Action Program.



- 14 -
m. THE PROJECT
3.1       By developing a modern commercial telecommunications sector that will
evolve increasingly towards allocation of resources on the basis of competitive
market forces, the Government hopes to overcome acute and widespread
telecommunications shortages that impose high costs throughout the economy and
impede effective implementation of development programs in other productive and
social sectors. While in the immediate future investments will continue to be
self-financed to a large degree, sustaining the growth pace will eventually
require substantial private investment and access to domestic and international
capital markets.
A. Project Objectives
3.2       The overall objective of the proposed project is to help create
conditions for increasing competition and private participation, including
setting up an appropriate policy, legal, and regulatory framework. In the course
of helping the Government to achieve this objective, the Bank will assist in
financing selected investments to expand and modernize the infrastructure for
both long-distance and local telephone service in designated regions and
provinces now experiencing rapid market development.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3       Through sector work and project preparation the Bank has helped the
MPT articulate policies that enhance sector efficiency and responsiveness to user
needs, develop competition, and gradually open the sector to a wide range of
public and private sources of investment capital. The Bank's continued support
of the reform process is a necessary complement to its interventions in most
other sectors and in general economic reform. The prospect of Bank financing of
some investments has added weight to the policy dialogue.
3.4       The proposed project will give the Bank the opportunity to continue
this policy dialogue, taking it from MPT headquarters to a sample of provincial
administrations and enterprises as well as working with the central MPT in
greater depth on key policy, regulatory, and enterprise reform issues.
Implementation of commercial accounting, rationalization of tariffs, and
preparation of a telecommunications law and regulations will, in addition to
supporting priority improvements, provide specific focal points for this broad
involvement.   The proposed loan may be followed with other loans linked to
further stages of sector reform.
C. Project Description
3.5       The project comprises a reform component and an investment component.
The reform component would support implementation of the accounting, tariff and
legal/regulatory reforms included in the Government's Action Program.   Such



- 15 -
support would include, inter alia, financing for: (a) consultant assistance to
help MPT develop an appropriate accounting system as well as a program to train
about 25,000 P&T accountants in enterprise accounting; (b) expert assistance to
carry out a study of telecommunications tariffs and prepare an implementation
plan for tariff adjustment; and (c) overseas training of MPT staff to enhance
their expertise in legal and regulatory fields.
3.6      The investment component comprises: (a) provision of two segments of
the long distance interprovincial network - one in the north (Beijing - Lanzhou)
and the other in the south (Fuzhou/Hangzhou - Chengdu) of China and (b) expansion
of 920,000 lines of the local telephone systems in three provinces (Heilongjiang,
Jiangsu and Liaoning). Technical training for installation and operation of new
equipment would also be included in the contract with suppliers.
D. Reform Component
Enterprise Accounting
3.7      As identified in the Bank's Sector Study, a significantly revised and
enhanced enterprise accounting system is needed as a basic tool for business
management at all levels, from MPT headquarters to the smallest P&T enterprise.
Such a system is also needed to respond to new MOF accounting guidelines
(effective July 1, 1993) which require that enterprise financial transactions be
recorded and reported according to generally accepted market-oriented accounting
principles. This would enable MPT and its enterprises to calculate undistorted
financial indicators that provide an accurate picture of the operating
enterprises' financial position and performance; it would also provide a basis
for reviewing the system for revenue settlements and profit redistribution
currently in place.'/
3.8      MPT is moving rapidly toward establishing an enhanced enterprise
accounting. In response to new MOF enterprise accounting rules, MPT made
some basic revisions to its enterprise chart of accounts and summary report
formats. The accounts and reports were tried on a pilot basis during May 1993
in several P&Ts in Fujian and Liaoning Provinces, and they now are being used in
all provinces. A first training course for senior accountants, one from each
province and several from MPT headquarters, took place in March 1993.
Additionally, a program to train about 50 senior accountants and 500 middle-level
accountants and teachers in the next two years at higher education establishments
has been started. These are important achievements.
3.9       A full appreciation of the accounting reform objectives, however,
indicates that considerably more work and training is needed for MPT to have
truly effective enterprise accounting systems based on market-oriented
principles:
1/  The 'economic accounting system' used by MPT is, according to MPT, essentially a system for the settlement of revenues reccived from
services provided jointly by two or more enterprises. particularly interprovincial long distance services. This also seems to be a
mechanism for substantial cross-subsidy among provinces, which weakens P&T managemnent incentives to contain costs and develop long
distance services. The nature of the accounting data available has not permitted an informed discussion of this topic. It has been agreed,
however, that as accounting data following internationally accepted practices build up, the subject could be revisited on an objective basis.



- 16 -
a detailed analysis based upon P&T transactions is needed to fully
develop requirements for revised computerized journals and ledgers,
charts of accounts, and various types of financial reports;
detailed accounting policies and procedures need to be developed and
documented for the various types of MPT and P&T financial
transactions;
-    the new systems,  policies and procedures have to be implemented
throughout all P&Ts; and
-    extensive training is needed for MPT, P&T, and PTA financial staff in
the new systems as well as in the principles underlying the new
accounting policies and procedures.
3.10      At least one full year of pilot implementation will be necessary to
test the new system and procedures,  including closing of accounts at P&T,
provincial, and MPT levels. A plan and timetable to train the 25,000 P&T accoun-
tants countrywide must be drawn up with the provincial administrations that will
be largely responsible for implementation. Plans also need to be prepared for
computerization of new journals, ledgers and other accounting records. Careful
review of the experience gained will be needed after full pilot trials, and again
some time after implementation has been completed countrywide.
3.11      Under the project, MPT will carry out a work and training program to
attain these goals.   The program comprises selecting a major international
accounting firm to assist and guide MPT in improving the existing systems, and
developing and implementing the needed systems, policies, and procedures in two
pilot provinces (Jiangsu and Liaoning). Key MPT staff would receive intensive
training in the application and practice of market-oriented accounting principles
and standards. These key MPT financial personnel would then play the lead role
in replicating the process of systems development and training in other
provinces.   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that MPT would, by
December 31, 1995, develop accounting standards for the sector, undertake pilot
implementation of the new system in two provinces in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, and prepare and furnish to the Bank an
assessment of this experience, including a plan for extension of the new
accounting system to other provinces.
3.12      The Swedish Board for Investments and Technical Support (BITS) has
confirmed its interest in supporting the accounting reform program outlined above
with grant funds of about US$1.0 million equivalent. The grant would meet the
full cost of consultants and their travel to China, as well as expenses in Sweden
of MPT staff during professional visits and training.   MPT would cover the
consultants' expenses in China (e.g., subsistence per diem, domestic travel) and
the cost of travel of MPT staff to Sweden.   Any foreign exchange costs of
training not eligible for BITS financing could be met from the proposed Bank loan
if other sources are not available.
3.13      Draft terms of reference for the consulting firm are in Annex 3.1.
During negotiations, MPT agreed to submit to the Bank, by November 30, 1993, a
detailed timetable for processing the contracts with BITS and the consultants.



- 17 -
Tariffs
3.14      For effective commercial operation of P&T enterprises and MPT's long
distance and other national services and facilities, whatever corporate form they
may take after restructuring, it is essential that tariffs increasingly reflect
the structure and level of costs to produce each type of service by major region
of China. Tariffs must also reflect expected system capacity shortages and the
need to generate funds for accelerated investment. In the past, MPT supported
a centralized, uniform tariff system that inevitably resulted in major imbalances
between prices and costs. Since 1989, MPT has taken a more flexible position.
For example, for telephone monthly fee and local call charges MPT issues
indicative tariffs, but each P&T has some latitude to deviate from these
indicative tariffs and set tariffs in consultation with the corresponding local
government authorities. Likewise, P&Ts levy and retain surcharges on MPT-defined
long distance tariffs. Telecommunications and postal tariffs have been adjusted
in recent years to better reflect costs.   However,  tariffs are still very
distorted and result in significant cross-subsidies and inefficiencies. Some
tariff elements (e.g., telephone rental and local call charges) are still
probably well below cost, while some others (especially international calls) are
overpriced. A more systematic review of tariffs structure, level, and management
practice is needed. This need becomes more urgent due to the sustained rapid
network growth, increasing operational autonomy and commercial orientation of the
P&Ts, government policies that require postal services to be financed separately
from telecommunications and open up parts of the non-basic telecommunications
business to competition, and inflation that has partially eroded the gains from
recent tariff adjustments.
3.15      Under the project, MPT will carry out a study of telecommunications
tariffs and prepare a plan and timetable to change tariffs and tariff management
taking into account the study's recommendations. The objectives of the study are
to (a) recommend changes to the current tariff structure and level and a program
to implement these changes, (b) establish a methodology for reviewing tariffs
from time to time, (c) recommend improvements in the process of tariff change and
approvals, and (d) make recommendations on accounting rates and settlements for
international traffic.   The tariff changes are expected to reinforce MPT's
current trend toward giving the individual P&Ts greater freedom in setting
tariffs within broad principles and quantitative guidelines. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that MPT would, by June 30, 1995 complete the tariff
study and present to the Bank a plan for implementing tariff adjustments, taking
into account the findings of the study.
3.16      A team of telecommunications experts has been established by MPT's
Department of Finance to carry out the tariff study. This team includes experts
drawn from the Department of Finance, the Directorate General of Telecommunica-
tions, the Directorate General of Posts, the Center for Economic and Technology
Development, and the Beijing P&T University. One member of the team has been
designated by the Department of Finance to lead the team. The team leader and
most members are assigned on a full-time basis to the study for its duration.
3.17      Technical assistance to the study team under the project will include
(a) about 6 man-months of experts mainly in the areas of cost analysis, tariffs



- 18 -
management, and economic and financial analysis of telecommunications tariffs and
(b) about 15 man-months of professional visits to foreign operating companies and
regulatory agencies to become familiar with their approaches to tariffs, and
training abroad over a period of about two years, by members of the team and
other MPT staff.   MPT will employ a specialized consulting firm to provide
experts and help organize the program of visits and training abroad. The study
will take about 12 months, starting about one month after the contract with
consultants has been signed.
3.18      BITS confirmed interest in providing about US$250,000 equivalent in
grant funds to meet the cost of technical assistance for the tariff study. The
grant would cover the cost of Swedish experts who would visit China on several
occasions to assist MPT in carrying out the study, as well as training of MPT
staff in Sweden. Any foreign exchange costs of technical assistance not eligible
for BITS financing could be met from the proposed loan if other financing is not
available.   Draft terms of reference for the consultants, including further
details of the tariff study outline and timetable, are in Annex 3.2.  During
negotiations, MPT agreed to submit tot he Bank, by November 30, 1993, a detailed
timetable for processing the contracts with BITS and the consultants.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
3.19      Successful implementation of the reforms expected to materialize in
1994-97 require an appropriate legal and regulatory framework.   The National
People's Congress (NPC) has entrusted MPT with preparation of a draft telecommu-
nications law, and substantial consensus had been reached through an extensive
consultative process. However, in order to reflect accelerated reforms, it is
currently being revised. By the end of 1993, the State Council is expected to
make key policy decisions on MPT's structure, functions, and number of staff.
3.20      As part of the reform program, a draft telecommunications law that
reflects these policy decisions will be prepared and sent by mid-1994 by MPT to
the State Council's Bureau of Legal Affairs for review and consultations. The
NPC is expected to promulgate a law by 1995 which will help consolidate the
emerging legal framework as needed to sustain the reform process beyond 1997.
However, at least a partial legal framework will be needed to accompany key
sector structural changes likely to come into effect before the law is passed.
3.21      In parallel with preparing and processing the telecommunications law,
MPT is developing guiding principles for regulating competitive services. Under
the project, MPT will prepare and issue in 1994 basic regulations for competitive
services, as well as for dedicated networks and their interconnection to public
networks.    Basic  regulations  will  be  critically  important  to  implement
competition and interconnection among networks.
3.22      During the project period, MPT is expected to seek the Bank's advice
for preparation of the law and regulations, as well as assistance in arranging
grant financing for training visits by senior MPT officials abroad. The foreign
exchange costs of such training will be financed from the proposed loan if
alternative sources are not available.



- 19 -
E. Investment Component
Long Distance Investments.
3.23        The project would provide fiber optic digital transmission networks
to increase the number of long distance transmission circuits, in conjunction
with other financing sources (Annex 3.3) to: (a) alleviate existing long distance
facility shortages and resultant low call completion rates; (b) digitalize the
network, which has already started through the installation of digital telephone
exchanges for local and LD services; (c) discontinue expenditures for costly
digital/analog conversion equipment; (d) improve transmission quality; and (e)
provide the medium for a diversity of future services.
3.24      The project includes two segments of the east-west inter-provincial
long distance networks, connecting the nation's capital and industrial coastal
provinces in the southeast with vast zones in the country's central areas, which
are rich in energy and mineral resources and agricultural products:
(a) a 2,084 km long fiber optic cable in the north of China will link the
regions of Beijing, Hebei, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia and Gansu from east
to west, connecting 45 population centers including some 35 cities
(see Annex 3.4); and
(b) a 4,461 km long fiber optic cable in the south of China will start in
the eastern provinces of Zhejiang and Fujian, join in Jiangxi, and run
through Hunan, Guizhou, and terminate in Sichuan Province, connecting
up to 80 population centers consisting of provincial capitals, major
cities and county towns (see Annex 3.5).
3.25      These transmission routes are based on the 140 megabits per second
(Mb/s) standard presently available to China.   It is expected that 565 Mb/s
technology will be available when required by traffic growth, and higher rates
when a synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH) is justified. For the first expansion
of the fiber optic systems, expected around 1998, the spare fibers in the cables
will be activated with 140 Mb/s or 4x140 Mb/s transmission systems.
Local Telephone Switching Investments.
3.26      The project would provide digital switching equipment to increase
telephone penetration in urban areas and newly instituted industrial zones to
expand the availability of lines and services, reduce existing waiting applicant
intervals, and improve network local call completion rates in three east coast
provinces experiencing rapid telecommunications growth demand as a result of
foreign investment:
(a) 160,000 lines of digital switching equipment in six offices in the
three district capital cities of Qiqihar, Mudanjiang and Jiamusi in
the most north-easterly agricultural, mineral and oil rich province
of HeilonqiianQ, bordering on eastern Russia (see Annex 3.6);



- 20 -
(b)  170,000 lines of digital switching equipment in seven offices in the
three district capital cities of Dandong, Jinzhou and Yingkou plus in
Bayuquan, a new port city, in the northeast industrial province of
LiaoninQ, situated at the head of the Yellow Sea (see Annex 3.7); and
(c)  590,000 lines of digital switching equipment in 30 offices in seven
districts - including the district capital cities of Changzhou,
Huaiyin, Nanjing, Suzhou, Wuxi, and Yancheng; the major industrial
cities of Wujin and Yangzhou; and industrial suburban areas (Jiangdu,
Jintan and Taixing) of two of the above cities in the industrial
province of Jiancsu, which bridges the Yangtse River, sits on the
Yellow Sea, and is just west and northwest of Shanghai (see Annex
3.8).
3.27      For both the long distance network and local telephone switching
expansion components, the associated facilities of buildings, local access and
inter-office cable networks, long distance switching, and ancillary equipment
needed to fully utilize the Bank-funded components, are being provided separately
under MPT and PTAs' financing.
Project Investments in Overall Investment Program.
3.28      Bank-assisted investments would be carried out from 1993 to 1997. The
long distance investment program would be part of China's Bth Five Year Plan
(1991-95). The local telephone expansion program would include investments in
the 8th Five Year Plan as well as some in the 9th Five Year Plan (1996-2000),
although the latter is not yet fully articulated.
3.29      During the 8th Five Year Plan, fiber optic cable facilities for the
long-distance network will be expanded by 50,000 km (34,000 km interprovincial)
from 3,000 km to a total of 53,000 km of installed fiber optic cable, and will
expand the microwave facilities by 50,000 km (15,000 km interprovincial) from
33,000 km for a total of 83,000 km of installed microwave facilities.  Interpro-
vincial long distance facilities would increase by around 500,000 circuits (from
112,000 to 610,000) and LD terminals in toll exchanges would increase by
1,100,000 (from 360,000 to 1,460,000). The project would provide for expansion
of 6,550 km of fiber optic cable (19 percent of the total interprovincial network
expansion), spanning 11 provinces. Bank financing includes two of the 21 fiber
optic cable projects scheduled, and represents an investment of 12.4% of total
fiber optic expansion (see Annexes 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5).
3.30      The number of local switching lines is forecast to increase in the 8th
Five Year Plan by 22 million, from 12 million to almost 34 million (as well as
replacement for a number of analog lines with digital switching equipment) .2/
During 1995-97 the network is expected to grow by a further 18 million lines to
almost 52 million total lines installed (with a continuing replacement of analog
and rural manual lines to digital equipment) (see Annex 1.3). In the case of the
2/  Urban lines increase by 18 million lines from 8 million to 26 million. and rural switching lines increase 4 million, fmm 4 million to
8 million lines.



- 21 -
three provinces of Heilongjiang, Liaoning, and Jiangsu, the Bank would finance
a small part of the local exchange expansion planned from 1993 to 1997; 920,000
lines of digital switching equipment, about 14.4 percent of the urban local
network line expansion program of 6,392,800 lines.   All ancillary network
expenditures and all rural network additions and replacements would be funded
through local financing, with the Bank investing approximately 1.6 percent of the
total projected construction program expenditures (see Annexes 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8).
F. Status of Project Preparation
3.31      Draft terms of reference for consultants in accounting and tariffs
were agreed in July 1993. During negotiations, it was agreed that contracts with
the consultants would be signed by June 30, 1994. The team responsible in MPT
for carrying out the tariff study has been designated.
3.32      Feasibility studies for the two fiber optic cable projects were
prepared by the Beijing Design Institute (Beijing - Lanzhou route) and the
Zhengzhou Design Institute (Fuzhou/Hangzhou - Chengdu route) under the direction
of the MPT Planning Department. Studies for the expansion of local telephone
networks were prepared by staff from each of the Municipality or County
Engineering Departments under the direction of the Planning Department for the
three concerned PTAs.
3.33      Procurement documentation was prepared by MPT, the concerned PTAs, and
the China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CMC), which has been
appointed to manage all procurement of foreign goods for the project and is
familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures.
G. Project Costs and Financing
3.34      The total project cost is estimated at US$593.7 million equivalent
(excluding interest during construction), with a foreign exchange component of
US$265.4 million equivalent or 44.7% of the total cost. Detailed cost estimates
for the project are presented in Annexes 3.4 to 3.8 and summarized in Table 3.1.
Annex 3.9 provides a yearly distribution for project costs.
3.35      Project costs have been estimated based on recent contracts resulting
from competitive bidding for similar projects in China. Physical contingencies
for the two long distance components are 5* for imported goods and 15% for local
goods and works.   While the equipment in the Bank-financed components is
specified in detail, the locally financed components for procurement and
construction of ancillary works are less well quantified, so a more significant
physical contingency has been utilized. Physical contingencies for the digital
switching equipment components are 5% for imported goods and 10% for local goods
and works. The price escalation for costs expressed in terms of local currency
equivalent is calculated to the following projected local inflation rates: 10.5%
in 1993,  7.5% in 1994 and 6% thereafter.   The price escalation for costs
expressed in terms of US dollars equivalent is calculated according to
anticipated international price escalation of 2.8% per annum.



- 22 -
Table 3.1:       ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Yuan Million                US$ Million    Foreign Cost
-----------------           ------------------- as % of
Project Element                Local  Foreign       Total   Local Foreign   Total   Total
Eauipment & Services           102.3  1,332.2  1,434.5    18.6   242.3   260.9    92. 9
Fiber Optic Cables               0.0    281.3    281.3           0.0    51.2    51.2   100.0
Optical Digital                  0.0    353.0    353.0           0.0    64.2    64.2   100.0
Transmission Equipment
Telephone Exchanges              0.0    684.5    684.5           0.0   124.4   124.4   100.0
Tools & Instruments             19.5        9.7       29.2       3.5      1.8      5.3    34.0
Power, A/C, Miscell.            82.8        3.7       86.5    15.1        0.7    15.8        4.3
Construction and            1,445.1         0.0  1,445.1   262.7          0.0   262.7        0.0
Installation Works
Cables                         360.9        0.0    360.9    65.6          0.0    65.6        0.0
Transmission Equipment   111.9              0.0    111.9    20.3          0.0    20.3        0.0
Telephone Exchanges             25.4        0.0       25.4      4.6       0.0      4.6       0.0
Outside Plant (Material  685.7              0.0    685.7   124.7          0.0   124.7        0.0
& Construction)
Buildings &                    154.0        0.0    154.0    28.0          0.0    28.0        0.0
Site Preparation
Miscellaneous                  107.2        0.0    107.2    19.5          0.0    19.5        0.0
Technical Assistance             0.0        8.9        8.9       0.0      1.6      1.6   100.0
Training                         0.0        1.7        1.7       0.0      0.3      0.3   100.0
Consultancy /a                   0.0        7.2        7.2       0.0      1.3      1.3   100.0
Total Base Cost             1,547.4  1,341.1  2,888.5   281.3   243.9   525.2    46.4
Physical Contingency           187.9       66.6    254.5    34.2    12.1    46.3    26.2
Price Contingency              400.5    305.0    705.5    12.8            9.4    22.2    42.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST /b  2,135.8  1,712.7  3,848.5   328.3   265.4   593.7    44.7
Interest during                  0.0    189.1    189.1           0.0    29.3    29.3         100
Construction /c
TOTAL FINANCING             2,135.8   1901.8  4,037.6   328.3   294.7   623.0    47.3
REQUIRED
NOTE: Costs ore rounded to the nearest 0.05 mitlion.
(a) LocaL counterpart costs of consultencies are not shown as study teams
training and introduction of new accounting procedures are being handied as ongoing operations.
(b) The project is exempt from import duties and taxes.
(c) Interest during construction CIDC) is based on ontending rates for projected disbursements of loan
proceeds. The foreign currency portion of IoC is based on the Bank loan variable rate.



- 23 -
3.36        The financing plan for the project is presented in Table 3.2.  The
proposed Bank loan of US$250.0 would finance 40.1% of the total project
cost and 84.8k of the foreign exchange costs. A grant of US$1.3 million
from the Swedish BITS would finance 0.2%. The remaining cost of US$371.7 million
(59.7%) would be covered by MPT.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent)
Local     Foreign        Total        % of Total
MPT                       328.3         43.4        371.7               59.7
Swedish BITS Grant             -         1.3          1.3                0.2
IBRD                           -       250.0       250.0                40.1
Total                     328.3        294.7       623.0               100.0
3.37      The proposed Bank loan would be lent to the People's Republic of China
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace on repayment of the principal, at the
standard variable interest rate.
3.38      On-lendinQ Terms.  Loan funds will be made available by the MOF to the
MPT for the long distance and sector reform components, and directly to the three
provincial PTAs for the local investments, under the same terms and conditions
as the Bank's loan, the foreign exchange risk being borne by the MPT and the
PTAs.
H. Project Implementation
3.39      MPT would be responsible for implementing the sector reform component
of the project, and would, in collaboration with the PTAs of Jiangsu and Liaoning
Provinces,  be  responsible  for  implementing  the  accounting  reform.    The
consultancies  associated with the sector reform components  are under  the
responsibility of the MPT.
3.40      Detailed design, specifications and tender documents for the two fiber
optic cable routes have been completed, and issued to potential bidders with
receipt of bids due by December 15, 1993. Detailed design, specifications and
tender documents for the local digital switching equipment will have been cleared
by the Bank for issue to the bidders prior to Board presentation.
3.41      The long distance investments will be carried out by MPT, using CMC
as purchasing agent and construction companies with experience in installing and
commissioning optical fiber systems under supervision of the suppliers of the
equipment.
3.42      The expansion of urban exchange facilities will be carried out by the
P&Ts, under the direction of the respective PTAs, in the three provinces. The



- 24 -
contract with suppliers will include supervision of installation and
commissioning of the telephone exchanges. Specialized construction companies or
the P&Ts' own staff will build the associated cable networks. Where equipment
installation and operations procedures are new to the P&Ts, the suppliers will
be contracted to provide adequate training abroad and locally. A schedule of
project implementation activities is given as Annex 3.10.
3.43      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
I. Procurement
3.44      Technical assistance, following terms of reference as agreed with the
Bank, will aid MPT in accounting reform implementation and training, as well as
in carrying out  the tariff study.   Action has been  initiated to retain
consultants.
3.45      Procurement of equipment and related services has been structured
around the major network components of fiber optic cable systems for the two
long-distance transmission routes, comprising five bidding documents for: (a)
fiber optic cables, (b) jointing closures, (c) measuring instruments, (d) fiber
splicing equipment, and (e) optical digital transmission equipment, for
procurement in 1994. Procurement of subscriber switching equipment is comprised
of one tender document (including a lot for each of the three provinces included
in the project) for procurement in 1994.  A summary of items to be procured
through ICB is given in Annex 3.11.
3.46      Local manufacturers are likely to compete for cables (fiber optic and
multipair cables), jointing closures, instruments, digital switching equipment,
ducts, power plants, air conditioning, and other accessories.
3.47      Contracts for about US$263.1 million (including contingencies)  for
supply of foreign goods, services and technical training will be awarded
following international competitive bidding (ICB). A preference limited to 15%
of the CIF price of imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to domestic manufacturers meeting the criteria of a minimum of 20%
value added, in evaluating bids. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation
for ICB would be required for those contracts estimated to be larger than US$1.0
million.   Six bidding documents, with a price equivalent to US$263.1 million
(including contingencies) have been reviewed before negotiations. Procurement
of consultants  (US$1.3 million) is in accordance with BITS procedures.   The
procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.



- 2 5 -
Table 3.3:  SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (a)
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
__ ____________________
Project Item                           ICB     Other(b)N.B.F.(c)    Total
Equipment:
Fiber Optic Cables                    55.2         -       -          55.2
(55.2)       -       -         (55.2)
Optical Digital                       69.3         -       -          69.3
Transmission Equipment             (69.3)        -       -         (69.3)
Telephone Exchanges                  136.7         -       -         136.7
(123.3)       -       -        (123.3)
Power Equipment, Air                   -           -      18.1        18.1
Conditioning & Misc
Tools & Instruments                    1.9         -       4.1         6.0
(1.9)       _       _          (1.9)
Constzuction/Installation Works:
Cables                                 -           -      77.8        77.8
Transmission Installation              -           -      24.3        24.3
Outside Plant (Material &              -           -     143.8       143.8
Construction)
Telephone Exchange Inst.               -           -       5.3         5.3
Buildings & Site Preparation            -          -      32.4        32.4
Miscellaneous                           -          -      23.2        23.2
Technical Assistance:
Training                                -          0.3      -          0.3
-         (0.3)     -          (0.3)
Consultancy                            -           -        1.3        1.3
Total Procurement:                   263.1         0.3   330.3       593.7
of which Bank Financed:              (249.7)      (0.3)     -       (250.0)
NOTES:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank loan.
(a) Including contingencies.
(b) Includes direct purchases, international and local shopping, and Bank
procedures for selection of consultants.
(c) N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed items which include equipment, services,
works, and expenditures on engineering design and administrative
overhead.



- 26 -
J. Disbursement
3.48      The Bank  loan would be disbursed against:  (a)  100% of  foreign
expenditures for equipment and materials imported directly, or 100t of the ex-
factory cost (excluding taxes) of locally procured equipment, and (b) 100% of
expenditures for consultants'  services and training abroad.   The estimated
disbursement schedule and a profile of disbursement performance under previous
Bank-assisted telecommunications projects in Asia is given in Annex 3.12.  A
summary of projected disbursement is summarized below:
Bank FY                    1994    1995    1996    1997        1998   1999
Annual                      5.8   170.2    64.7        7.3       1.0    1.0
Cumulative                  5.8   176.0   240.7   248.0    249.0  250.0
3.49      It is envisaged that due to the size of the projected equipment
contracts, the use of a Special Account will not be necessary. The training and
consultancy component, which is expected to be about US$300,000 equivalent, would
be pre-financed by MPT, with the Bank reimbursement based on SOE procedures. The
loan would be closed on April 30, 1999.
K. Audits
3.50      The State Audit Administration (SAA) will have overall responsibility
for auditing project accounts.   The actual audit work,  in the case of the
provincial PTAs, accounts, will be conducted under SAA's supervision by the Audit
Bureaus of the respective provinces.   During negotiations,  assurances were
obtained that the following annual audited reports will be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the end of the financial year: (a) project accounts, with
separate opinions on any SOEs; and (b) financial statements of the three PTAs
involved in the local network expansion investment. projects.
L. Environmental and Health Aspects
3.51      The proposed project is not expected to cause any adverse health
problems and would have only minor environmental effects. The Anti-Earthquake
and Environmental Protection Office of MPT, granted a certificate to act on
behalf of the National Environmental Protection Agency, has completed an
environmental assessment of the two long distance cable routes, and issued
construction specifications to address environmental matters. The long distance
fibre optic cables will be buried mostly along existing roads and river
crossings, so no disruption of virgin land is expected. Standard construction
practices will prevent ground erosion and minimize vehicular and pedestrian
traffic disruption while digging trenches for local networks, and preparing sites
and undertaking construction of new equipment buildings in urban areas.  See
Annex 3.13 for details.



- 2 7 -
M. Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision
3.52      The Bank will monitor overall performance of MPT and the PTAs during
the project implementation period aided by selected performance indicators
relating to subscriber connection, financial performance, staffing, and measures
to attain institutional improvements as shown in Annex 3.14. In addition, the
Bank will monitor procurement and project implementation. Continuous monitoring
will assist MPT and the PTAs in improving management and will allow timely
corrective action to be taken where necessary. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that MPT and the three PTAs would monitor financial and operational
performance in accordance with annual targets indicated in Annex 3.14.
3.53      MPT will prepare progress reports on the project's investment and
reform components in a form acceptable to the Bank, and will submit them to the
Bank within one month of the end of the period.   Project accounts will be
maintained currently by MPT's Project Coordinating Unit, so that the cost of each
project component and the disbursement flow can be clearly established.
Reporting requirements are summarized in Annex 3.15.
3.54      Supervision of the investment components of the project will focus
upon the following key aspects: (a) implementation of the agreed institutional
reforms; (b) timely and effective procurement of goods and related services in
the early stages of the project; (c) implementation coordination of the various
project elements of civil works, fiber optic cable placement, transmission and
switching equipment installations, outside plant construction, and progress
towards connection of subscribers; (d) proper coordination of these projects with
related elements of MPT's other fiber optic cable projects; (e) compliance with
financial covenants to assure provincial PTAs' financial health while they
undertake a large investment program; and (f) assurance that adequate steps are
taken to protect the environment. A substantial amount of supervision time will
be spent reviewing and assisting MPT's efforts toward institutional reforms.  The
total estimated staff inputs are: (a) specialists in telecommunications policy,
law and regulation -- 1B staff-weeks; and (b) telecommunications engineers and
finance specialists, with assistance from an economist being drawn as required--
44 staff-weeks.   A supervision plan is given in Annex 3.15.



- 28 -
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
4.1       The financial and economic analyses of the project investments are
based on the whole program of regional or provincial investments, of which each
project investment is an integral part. For the long distance investments, the
program is defined as the total investment to develop the network in the 11
provinces linked by the two fiber optic cable systems funded by the Bank. For
the local telephone expansion investments, the program is the total investment
for telephone development in the three respective provinces. This approach has
been taken because attempts to separate the costs and benefits exclusively
attributable to the investment components alone would give results that are
excessively dependent on assumptions regarding the separation of costs and
benefits from the overall programs, and the performance of these separate
investment elements would be difficult to monitor because there are no separate
financial statements for these investment elements.
4.2       The financial data used in these analyses are based upon those
presented in Annex D of the Sector Study, updated from 1989 to 1991. Hence, the
concerns about the Government accounting results discussed in the Sector Study
are applicable here.   However, several changes already decided by MPT to be
introduced in 1993 were considered in this new presentation of the financial
statements.   The methodology used for projection of,  and the details of,
financial statements for each of the provinces included in the local and long
distance expansion projects are in the project files (Annex 5.1).
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
4.3       Historical financial performance, key financial ratios, and historical
indicators for 1988-92 for the three local expansion investment components under
evaluation are summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2, respectively. In general, the
key ratios and financial indicators for 1988-92 portray a picture of financial
strength. The ratio of staff per 1,000 operating lines shows healthy decreases
from around 75 staff/l,000 lines to around 30 staff/l,000 lines. While still
high compared to Latin America (about 15) or developed countries (about 5), this
is an unprecedented improvement in labor productivity. The range of telephone
density for the urban network provincial population increased from 1.3-1.6 in
1988 to 2.6-3.4 in 1992. All three provinces have more than doubled their number
of operating lines in the past five years, with annual investments between US$150
million to US$200 million. The average value per operating telephone line 1/
is in the range of US$500 to US$1,000, which is low by international standards,
but it is credible for China due to the low labor cost.   A more detailed
presentation is in Annex 4.1.
4.4       It is important to note that Jiangsu and Liaoning are provinces that
make a substantial contribution to the long distance distribution fund as a
result of the "economic accounting system", while Heilongjiang is a receiving
i/    Value of Gross Fixed Operating Assets divided by the number of working lines.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 1988-92
(values in million Yuan, except when other unit indicated)
Year Ended 31 December                            1988         1989           1990         1991          1992
HEILONGJI4NG PROVINCE
GROSS OPERATING REVENUE                        265,027       314,649       398,770      533,560       692,699
TOTAL OPERATING COST                           208,586       258,632       320,855      458,488       603.796
REVENUE LESS EXPENSES (a)                       48,195       46,212         64,919       57,694        68.121
GROSS OPERATING ASSETS                         710,163      855,881      1,083,663     1,364,476    1,807,973
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                           149.689       165,381       251,721      444,898       905,309
RETURN ON ASSETS                                 19.6%        16.1%         17.8%         17.7%        24.5%
SELF FINANCING RATIO                            88.3%         90.2%         82.5%        65.8%         60.3%
LIAONING PROVINCE
GROSS OPERATING REVENUE                        381,211      481,713        642,703      928.522     1,296,429
TOTAL OPERATING COST                           292,047       331,036       430.019      618,116       762,412
REVENUE LESS EXPENSES (a)                       77,178       135,329       191.725      280.111       495,124
GROSS OPERATING ASSETS                        1,162.877    1,405,305      1,831,909    2.660,226    3,111.637
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                           216,925       481,753       504.416      889,859       703.327
RETURN ON ASSETS                                 4.9%         25.7%         22.4%        20.0%         31.2%
SELF FINANCING RATIO                            48.2%         73.2%         77.4%        57.7%        144.7%
JIANGSU PROVINCE
GROSS OPERATING REVENUE                        444,093       520,014       677,670      988,690      1.390.205
TOTAL OPERATING COST                            294.540      344,146       419,186       694,652      858,129
REVENUE LESS EXPENSES (a)                       135.536      159,215       236.306      261.670       490,370
GROSS OPERATING ASSETS                         978,197     1,215,603      1,669,204    2,380,416    3.332.937
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                           255,526       402,729       421,408       873,564     1.043.112
RETURN ON ASSETS                                 21.7%        23.6%          20.4%        19.4%        25.0%
SELF FINANCING RATIO                             81.9%        73.6%          80.1%        73.5%        96.6%
Note (a): this difference is before the long distance revenue re-distribution: therefore, does not include bonuses, surcharges and
connection fees.



- 30 -
Table  4.2:   KEY  RATIOS  AND  HISTORICAL  FINANCIAL  INDICATORS,  1988-92
(values in Yuan, except when other unit indicated)
Year Ended 31 December                           1988         1989          1990         1991         1992
HEILONGAIANG PROVINCE
t INSTALLED LINES                             239,800      296,560       375.360      395,660       563,000
t OPERATING LINES                             187,320      197,291       247,958      309,892       412,631
URBAN NETWORK DENSITY (lines/100 people)          1.3          1.3           1.6          2.0           2.6
STAFF11,000 OPER. LINES                            71           69            57           47           38
LOCAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                      336          353           391          520          438
TOTAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                      911          938         1,081         1,174        1,235
TOTAL EXPENSES/OPER. LINE                         735          772           835          988         1,165
LIAONTNG PROVINCE
# INSTALLED LINES                             386,260      446,767       500,367      616,800       798,210
# OPERATING LINES                             258,101      305,154       351,811      415,809       564,516
URBAN NETWORK DENSITY (lines/100 people)          1.6          1.9           2.2          2.5           3.4
STAFF/1,OOOOPER. LINES                             53           46            42           36           28
LOCAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                      435          479           581          683          749
TOTAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                      999         1,151         1.391        1,797        2,052
TOTAL EXPENSES/OPER. LINE                         768          758           851         1,064        1,093
JIANGSU PROVINCE
# INSTALLED LINES                             331.390      382,126       463.698      684,356       926,000
I OPERATING LINES                             216.135      265,053        322,378     426,849       666,479
URBAN NETWORK DENSITY (lines/100 people)           1.6         1.9           2.3          3.0           3.3
STAFF/1,OOOOPER. LINES                             73           61            51           39           26
LOCAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                      478          519           555          712           761
TOTAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                     1.150        1.178         1,347        1.659        1.871
TOTAL EXPENSES/OPER. LINE                         788          810           820         1,119        1,040



- 31 -
province where final availability of self-generated funds for investment depends
heavily on the amount received through redistribution. The current and projected
financial statements are based upon the existing revenue redistribution scheme.
It is assumed that any change in the existing revenue redistribution mechanism
resulting from the proposed tariff study, which is an integral part of the
proposed project's sector reform component, and/or of a possible re-structuring
of the sector, would be compensated through tariff level adjustments.
4.5         The local total telephone revenues per operating line show healthy
increases  and  are  in  the  acceptable  international  range.    The  total
telecommunications expenses per operating line are also in line with
international averages; however, in Heilongjiang Province they account for a high
percentage of revenues per line, another indicator of the relatively lower
development of this province. All provincial PTAs collect sales tax, currently
around 3%, on behalf of the Government.   They are also subject to corporate
income tax, normally around 10% of Net Allocated Profit; pay a dividend to MPT
of about 20% of the same Net Allocated Profit; and send remittances to MPT equal
to 70% of their interprovincial long distance depreciation charges.   The
percentage of custom duties is dependent upon the type of equipment and the
specific financing, being lower for more concessional financing. Assets were not
revalued in the fund accounting system nor will be in the new commercial
accounting system. If inflation continues at current levels for several years,
it would be necessary to incorporate "inflation accounting" in the system.
4.6         In Heilongjiang and Liaoning, PTAs' past financial performance has
been characterized by a robust rate of return (ROR) on local and long distance
services, together with substantial losses in post and in telex and telegraph
services. In Jiangsu, the results are very variable (Annex 4.2). However, there
is a pattern of constant improvement in the consolidated picture of the three
provinces.
4.7         Heilongjiang, more than the other provinces, shows a very modest
impact of international traffic in its total revenues (around 5%), which is
another indicator of its relative remoteness and lower economic development.
Tariff surcharges are applied to local and long distance telephone services.
These surcharges are variable by county, but as an average, they represent 40%
of local revenues for business subscribers (no surcharges are applied to
residential subscribers and public phones), and around 1% for domestic and
international long distance calls. The revenue resulting from the surcharges is
neither included in the long distance revenue re-distribution, nor is accounted
for taxes and dividends. It goes directly to investment.
4.8         In Liaoning Province the percentage participation of international
traffic in its total revenues has increased from 2.5% in 1988 to 12% in 1991,
showing the effect of rapid economic development during the last years. Tariff
surcharges in Liaoning Province are applied to local and long distance telephone
services.   These surcharges are variable by county, but as an average, they
represent 40% of local revenues for all subscribers and around 8% for domestic
long distance calls. No surcharges are applied to international calls.
4.9         In Jiangsu Province the percentage participation of international
traffic in its total revenues has increased from 2.1% in 1986 to 11% in 1991,



- 32 -
showing the effect of rapid economic development during the last five years.
Tariff surcharges in Jiangsu province as an average represent 20% of local
revenues for all subscribers, and around 6t for domestic long distance calls and
0.2% for international calls.
4.10        The historical financial performance of the group of four northern
provinces covered by the Beijing-Lanzhou Fiber Optic Cable and the group of six
southern provinces covered by the Fuzhou/Hangzhou-Chengdu Fiber Optic Cable was
analyzed using the provincial financial statements of the four and six provinces
respectively involved, which are available in the project files.
B. Projected Financial Performance and Targets
4.11        The provincial financial statements for Heilongjiang, Liaoning and
Jiangsu were projected for the period 1993-2000 as explained in Annex 4.3. The
projected financial statements and the key ratios and projected financial
indicators for 1993-2000 are summarized in Tables 4.3 and 4.4, and Annex 4.4.
The provincial financial statements were projected up to the year 2000 in nominal
terms. In order to calculate the return on investment, some items from these
projections were transformed into real yuan of December 1992 and projected up to
the year 2007 (12 years average life for project components). Basic assumptions
used in the financial projections are: (a) data refer only to the urban network;
(b) operating revenues are projected by service using the current tariff
structure and levels, and the projected number of working lines, but assume
changes in the proportion of business and residential subscribers; (c) even when
the projections include revenues and expenses for postal services, postal amounts
are frozen at their 1992 values; and (d) salaries in all provinces include a
projected strong decrease in the ratio of staff per 1,000 lines and adjustments
in the salary per staff for inflation.
4.12        The  projected  financial  statements  for  this  period  have  a
satisfactory outlook with around 40% of investment to be financed by
depreciation, 10 by direct net profit, and 40t to 50% by surcharges and
connection fees. The external requirements are only around 10% cumulatively for
the three provinces.   However,  there are important differences among the
provinces which are discussed below. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on a minimum internal cash generation ratio of 40% as a financial requirement for
each of the three PTAs.
4.13        Heilongjiang PTA's projected financial performance is based upon the
assumption of increasing the number of installed lines from 563,000 in 1992 to
4,630,000 in the year 2000, which would permit an efficiency improvement from 38
staff/l,000 lines in 1992 to 6 staff/l,000 lines in year 2000, assuming an
increase from 15,536 to 23,086 staff, respectively. The urban network density
would increase from 2.6 to 23.8 operating lines per 100 people in the same years.
A key factor in analyzing Heilongjiang's projections is the feasibility of
accomplishing their ambitious plan of installing 4 million lines between 1993 and
the year 2000 starting from a position where the province receives a net
contribution from the long distance revenue re-distribution, and where the impact



- 33 -
Table 4.3: SUMMARY PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 1993-2000
(values in million Yuan, except when other unit indicated)
Year Ended 31 December                        1993        1994          1995         1996        1997       2000
HEELONGJILANG PROVINCE
GROSS OPERATING REVENUE                    981,970   1,388,718      1,850,983    2,384,302   3,067,954  6,481.507
TOTAL OPERATING COST                       918,728    1,587,423     1.731,136    2,157,955   2,674,163  5.191,895
REVENUE LESS EXPENSES (a)                   33,783   (240,366)        64,318       154,818     301,752  1,095,166
GROSS OPERATING ASSETS                    3,991,785   6,636,285     8,960,865   11.859,7531   15.355,088 34,340,372
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                      1,722,000   2,644,500     2,324,580    2,898,888   3,495,334  8,874.965
RETURN ON ASSETS                            23.1%       22.6%          23.1%        21.7%       21.9%      22.2%
SELF FINANCING RATIO                        66.1%        82.7%        112.0%       111.1%      115.8%      94.8%
LIAONING PROVINCE
GROSS OPERATING REVENUE                   1,788.511   2,526,769     3,442.537    4,260,040   5,171.252  9,098,102
TOTAL OPERATING COST                      1,061,023   1,710,753     1.851,613    2,310.523   2,846,130  4,813,349
REVENUE LESS EXPENSES (a)                  673,833     740.213      1,487,648    1,821,717   2,169,984  4,011,810
GROSS OPERATING ASSETS                    4,378,589   6,970,134     9,704,934    12.603,822   16,291,208 28,734,718
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                      2,410.740   2.580,000     2,734,800    3,478,666  -3,687.386  4,391,735
RETURN ON ASSETS                             38.9%       39.5%         34.9%        39.1%       32.3%      34.0%
SELFFINANCINGRATIO                           68.5%      112.9%        116.1%       126.9%      132.0%     177.6%
JIANGSU PROVINCE
GROSS OPERATING REVENUE                   1.788,578   2,281.529     2.961.820    3,704,290   4,640,165  8.656.295
TOTAL OPERATING COST                      1,173,825   1.972,547     2.088.543    2,624,739   3.258,967  5,292,525
REVENUE LESS EXPENSES (a)                   561,095     240,536       784,422      968,422    1.241.992 3,10440813
GROSS OPERATING ASSETS                    5,024,040   8,210,340    10,808,400    14,432.010   17,965,754 29,890,785
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                      2,964,000   2,451,000     3,418.500    3.333.721   3,533,744  4,208,746
RETURN ON ASSETS                             19.0%       11.2%         12.2%        14.0%       12.8%      13.7%
SELF FINANCING RATIO                         44.4%       82.6%         66.7%        94.9%      106.6%     143.2%
Note (a): this difference is before the long distance revenue re-distribution; therefore, it does not include bonuses, surcharges and
connection fees.



- 34 -
Table 4.4: KEY RATIOS AND PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1993-2000
(values in Yuan, except when other unit indicated)
Year Ended 31 December                        1993        1994          1995         1996        1997      2000
HEILONGJILNG PROVINCE
# INSTALLED LINES                          850,000   1,260,000     1,600,000    2,000,000   2,455.000  4,630,000
t OPERATING LINES                          690,000    1,050,000    1,360,000     1,720,000   2,155,000  4,166,000
URBAN NETWORK DENSITY (lines/100 people)       4.3         6.4           8.2         10.3        12.7       23.8
STAFF/1,000OPER. LINES                         24          17            13            11           9          6
LOCAL REV/OPER. LINE                          470         497           518           534         544        541
TOTAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                 1,293       1,284         1,308        1,368       1.438      1,682
TOTAL EXPENSES/OPER. LINE                    1,335       1,614         1,285        1,283       1,286      1.344
LIAONING PROVINCE
I INSTALLED LINES                         1,200,000   1,600.000    2,000,000    2,480,000   2.960,000  4.400,000
# OPERATING LINES                          815,000   1.125,000     1,409,400     1,852,040   2,266,040  3.814,920
URBAN NETWORK DENSITY (lines/100 people)       4.9         6.7           8.3         10.9        13.2       21.7
STAFF/1,000OPER. LINES                         20          15            12             9           8          5
LOCAL REV/OPER. LINE                           786        802           793           816         792       755
TOTAL TELEPH. REV/OPER. LINE                 2,161       2,297         2.480        2.428       2,365      2,488
TOTAL EXPENSESIOPER. LINE                    1.209       1,530         1.282        1.278       1.272      1,297
JLkNGSU PROVINCE
# INSTALLED LINES                         1,420,000   1,800,000    2,300,000    2,760,000   3.220,000  4,600,000
# OPERATING LINES                          931,000    1,231,000     1,550,000    2.068,000   2.586,000  4,140,000
URBAN NETWORK DENSITY (lines/100 people)       4.5         5.9           7.4          9.7        12.0       18.7
STAFF/1,0000PER. LINES                          19          15            12            9           8          5
LOCAL REV/OPER. LINE                           739         716           740          720         699        638
TOTAL TELEPH. REVIOPER. LINE                 1,779       1,771         1.866         1.845       1,836     2.136
TOTAL EXPENSESIOPER. LINE                    1.107       1,557         1,294         1,291       1,276      1.289



- 35 -
of the newly implemented commercial accounting system will be a substantial
increase in depreciation for 1994.  After analyzing several scenarios, it is
found that the project is viable only if surcharges and connection fees are
increased to the level set by Liaoning Province. Under the proposed scenario the
required external funds would be around 10% of investment, plus an increased
participation of long distance revenue redistribution, equivalent to around 1%
of investment, which is assumed to be treated as a loan.
4.14        Liaoning and Jiangsu PTAs' projected financial performance are based
upon the assumptions of increasing the number of installed lines from 798,200 in
1992 to 4,400,000 in year 2000 in Liaoning Province, and from 926,000 in 1992 to
4,600,000 in year 2000 in Jiangsu Province, which would permit an efficiency
improvement from 28 staff/1,000 lines in 1992 to 5 staff/1,000 lines in year 2000
in Liaoning Province (assuming an increase from 15,697 to 19,075 staff,
respectively), and from 26 staff/1,000 lines in 1992 to 5 staff/1,000 lines in
year 2000 in Jiangsu Province (assuming an increase from 17,296 to 21,910 staff,
respectively) . The urban network density would increase from 3.4 operating lines
per loo people in 1992 to 21.7 operating lines per 100 people in year 2000 in
Liaoning Province, and from 3.3 operating lines per 100 people in 1992 to 18.7
operating lines per 100 people in Jiangsu Province.
C. Tariffs
4.15        Annex 4.5 shows the current telecommunications tariffs, including
notes about the surcharges applicable in the three provinces, with local
expansion partially financed by the proposed project.  A conclusion from the
detailed financial statements for the three provinces is that the total rate of
return is satisfactory for local and long distance services.   However,  the
proposed tariffs study should analyze, inter alia, the merits of the current mix
of a very high connection or installation fee followed by a very low monthly
payment.   Additionally,  the tariffs study should analyze the effect of the
current international rates, which are among the highest in the world.
4.16        Postal, telex, and telegraph services have negative rates of return.
The rates for Post must be increased at least up to the point of eliminating the
losses which currently demand cross-subsidies from the telecommunications
services. Telex service is stagnant and will have little impact on the total
operating entity finances; its future should be discussed as a part of the
tariffs study. Telegraph is still considered by Government as a social service
provided through a combination of telephone and telex facilities, at lower than
cost price. This situation should also be included in the tariff analysis.
D. Financial Covenants
4.17        With the aim of directing the three provincial PTAs and reporting
P&Ts toward prudent financial management, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that each of the PTAs would:
(a)   maintain self-financing ratios of no less than 40%; and



- 36 -
(b)   by May 31 of each year, starting from May 31, 1994, annually prepare
and furnish to the Bank for review, until completion of the project,
a rolling long-term financial plan (including projected income
statements, sources and uses of funds and balance sheets for a
period of no less than five years) and exchange views with the Bank
on the entities' financial position.
E. Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
4.18        The proposed project's benefits would accrue to all sectors of the
economy through improved access to telecommunications facilities and improved
service quality.   Users would benefit from increased access,  from around
2,400,000 installed lines in 1993 to 11,850,000 installed lines in the year 2000
in the three provinces, and from greatly increased access to the long distance
network.   The business community would benefit from expanded transmission
facilities for information exchange. Extended facilities would also widen the
reach of emergency and government services.
4.19        The proposed project investment components would address the most
significant unsatisfied telephone demand for long distance calling and local
expansion in major urban areas and economic development zones. Development and
modernization of the existing rural manual and analog telephone facilities has
been deferred until urban network demand has been satisfied to an adequate level.
This strategy represents the highest revenue-generating solution for both long
distance and local services. Minimum access to the network is ensured by the
past preferential development of rural facilities, even if the quality is low by
today's standards.
4.20        The estimated real financial rate of return (FRR) of the investment
projects, based on incremental financial flows, is around 34%, which is
considered to be above the cost of capital for MPT and the provincial PTAs. A
summary of the calculations is given in Annex 4.6. The economic rate of return
(ERR) is estimated to be around 36%. The economic rate of return is calculated
by: (a) applying an exchange rate of 7.5 yuan/US$; and (b) increasing the skilled
labor salaries through a conversion factor of 2.0.   The resultant ERR is
considered conservative and does not take into account consumer surplus and
benefits that accrue to the economy in general as a result of improved
telecommunications services but are difficult to quantify. In testing the ERR's
sensitivity, the most likely worst case scenarios and their effects on the ERR
were considered, with the following results:
(a)   a delay of 6 months in the connection of new subscribers resulting
in a delayed revenue stream (ERR - 29%);
(b)   an increase of 15% in the investment cost (ERR . 28%);
(c)   combining the above would result in a fall in the estimated ERR to
around 23%.   Therefore,  even under this improbable worst case
scenario, the project component is still well justified; and
(d)   the implementation of the Heilongjiang province project was tested
in its sensitivity to the assumptions on surcharges level and



- 37 -
connection fees discussed in para. 4.13, finding that the FRR would
decrease from 37% to around 14% if those tariffs adjustments are not
done.
F. Project Risks
4.21        There are two main risks regarding the reform component. First, there
is some uncertainty regarding the pace of the reform program agreed with the MPT.
The Government's formal commitment to the Action Program for 1994-97, and MPT's
interest in subsequent Bank loans which would be linked to further progress in
sector reform, provide some incremental support for change. The second risk is
that the MPT may be unable to change as fast as needed. MPT reforms are largely
driven by powerful technological and market forces unleashed by accelerated
economic reform. Measures to contain this risk have included Bank assistance in
legal and regulatory matters during project preparation, which would be followed
up as part of the project.
4.22        The  main  risk  regarding  the  investment  component  is  delayed
submission to the Bank of digital switching equipment bidding documents and
subsequent procurement. The Government's urgent need to greatly expand the urban
telephone network in developing industrial centers should help minimize any
delay.



- 38 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
5.1       During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower
that it will:
(a) the Borrower will, by June 30, 1994, employ consultants to assist the
Borrower   in   (i) developing   accounting   standards   for   the
telecommunications sector, undertaking pilot application of such
standards in two of the provinces where local switching systems will
be expanded under the Project, and developing an implementation plan
for  national  application,   and   (ii)  undertaking  a  study  of
telecommunications tariffs and developing an implementation plan for
tariff restructuring (paras. 3.11 and 3.31);
(b) the Borrower will develop accounting standards under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank; by December 31, 1995, complete pilot
application of said standards in two project provinces; and
immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank an
implementation plan for national application of the said accounting
standards taking into account the experiences of the pilot
applications (para. 3.11);
(c) the Borrower will, by June 30, 1995, complete the tariff study in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank, and,
immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank an
implementation plan for tariff restructuring taking into account the
findings of the said study (para. 3.15);
(d) MPT will, by November 30, 1993, submit a detailed timetable for
processing the contracts with BITS and the consultants for accounting
and tariffs studies (paras. 3.13 and 3.18);
(e) the Borrower will carry out the training financed under the project
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.11, 3.17 and 3.22);
(f) the Borrower will monitor various telecommunications performance
indicators in the provinces and autonomous regions included in the
Project, in accordance with annual targets agreed with the Bank (para.
3.52);
(g) the Borrower will ensure that the consolidated financial condition of
the telecommunication operating enterprises reporting to each of the
PTAs in Heilongjiang, Jiangsu and Liaoning will meet the following
financial requirements:
(i)       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the PTAs
will produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal
year ending on December 31, 1993, funds from internal



- 3 9 -
sources equivalent to not less than 40% of the annual
average of its capital expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and
the two next following fiscal years (paras. 4.12 and 4.17).
(ii)      Before May 31 in each of its fiscal years, each of the PTAs
will, on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (i) above in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year and will
furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon   its
completion.
(iii)     If any of such reviews shows that one of the PTAs would not
meet the requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (i) for the
fiscal years covered by such review, it shall promptly take
all necessary measures (such as adjustments of the structure
or  levels  of  its  tariffs)   in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
(h) the Borrower will (1) by May 31 in each year, commencing May 31, 1994,
prepare and furnish to the Bank for review, until completion of the
Project, a rolling long-term financial plan of each of the three PTAs
(including projected income statements, sources and uses of funds, and
balance sheets) covering a period of at least five years; and (ii)
thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on its financial position
(para 4.17-b).
5.2       Agreement was also reached that loan funds will be made available by
the MOF to the MPT for the long distance and sector reform components, and
directly yo the three PTAs for the local investments, under the same terms and
conditions as the Bank's loan, the foreign exchange risk being borne by the MPT
and the PTAs (para. 3.38).
5.3       Approval of the Loan Agreement by the Borrower's State Council was
specified as a condition for loan effectiveness.
B. Recommendation
5.4       Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$250.0 million equivalent for a period of 20
years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The Borrower would be the People's Republic of China.






ANNEXES






- 43 -
Annex 1.1
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Acees to Telephone Service in Selected Countries (1991)
Popuiation   Main Lines    I ines100      Rank
Countrv                  (Million)     (Mi1lion)   Inhabitants      ()
Indonesia                   187.8           1.3          0.68       31
India                       849.6           5.8          0.68       30
P'R]Cv fQn(i*4)            1,150.1          3            0.73!      i-  28
Philippines                  62.9           0.6          1.03       25
Thailand                     56.9           1.6          2.73        19
D.P.R. Korma                 22.2           0.8          3.69        16
Mexico (1990)                85.8           5.2          6.05        --
Brazil (1990)               150.4           9.4          6.26        --
Malaysia                     18.3           1.8          9.91        12
Korea (Rep. of)              43.3          14.6         33.68         7
Singapore                     2.8           1.1         39.85         5
Japan                       123.9          56.3         45.39         3
Hongkong                      5.8           2.6         45.92         2
Australia                    17.3           8.0         46.41         1
Source: Asia-Pacific Telecommnumcations indicators. May 1993 (Except Brazil and Mexico)
) In Asia-Pacific reeion.
* Maun lines increased to 12.2 million and densitv to 1.03 in 1992.
00O&6kaccmzu  111,)



- 44 -
Annex 1.2
Pple Reublic of CiSna
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
8eC St astc ot NetWks NW SOre 119921
Total Exchange Caoacitv                           19.222 million lines
Urban Exchange Caoacitv                           13.555 mwiion lines
- Automaic                                        99.0 %
Digital                                          69.7 %
Rural Exchange CaaDCtV                             5.667 mullOn lines
- Feent of Totai Exchange CapaCrtV                29.5
Total Uines in Service                            12.208 million
-Uban Service                                     80.3 %
*ORiaenu  Suscibner                            46.1 %
DOD Subsacne                                   56.3 %
- 100 Subscnhes                                 23.0 %
Rurtl Service                                    19.7 %
Telephones                                        18.96l milison
in uroan areas                                   81.6 %
in rurai areas                                   16.2 %
L -eam  iD OWO 
Exchange Circuit Terminals                       717.300
Automatic                                        72.7 %
Digrtal                                        96.9 %
Domnetic ano international Circuits in Servic    234.276
Microwave Lnks                                  54,418.0 km
Dignite                                          46.0 %
Cable inks                                      38,757.6 km
-Medium Coaxal                                    17.4 %
Small Coaxl                                      14.4 %
- Svmm.tncai                                      25.8 %
OotlCOi                                          37.1 %
Othes                                              1.6 %
Earth Satelifte Stations tor Domestc Traffic          42
Eartn Satelite Stations tor intrnaionI Trafttic        5
Gatowevs tor internationai Tratfic                     3
Total 1D Calls                                     2.874 mfilon
Interational Calis                                7.2 %
Telex Exchange Caoscitv                           51.147 lines
Telex Circuits                                     2.304
Cri Connetood by the Telex Network                   116
Telex Subacnbe                                    146643
Tedx CAls                                          6 757 million
Teeron Exchange CSPeanv                           10.660 circuits
Teapon CircuIs                                    12.338
Public Tegrasms                                  281.893 mllion
Ctes with Paging System                            1.075
Pagi   Subabers                                    2.220 million
Cities with Clukar Sevce                             350
Cdr Sbernbers                                    17i6.900
Soume: iPT - J1jv 1993
_      _ -  w     _ 



- 45 -
Annex 1.3
Page I of 2
People' RepubL;c of hims
TEWCONOwUMCATIONS PROJECT
IuIhed Local  Uiban A Ruml) EFcmg Capsy (OW Line.)
AAI                                      Tarut
Reion                        19339 99            1990       199l      i992                 1995      1997
MUNICIPALYFIES
Beijing                      355.9     461.0      524.6     643.0     330.3      902.0   1,366.0   2,1Z6.0
Sbaagbi                      429.9      576.2     741.7    u36.8    1,069.3   1,369.0   2,200.0   2,950.0
Tanjin                       219.6      259.1     260.9     304.9     397.6      462.0     727.0    1.991.0
Subtotal:    1,005.4   1.2963    1.527.2   1,714.7   2.298.2   2.733.0   4.293.0   7,127.0
PROVINCES
Anhui                        246.5     n72.5      325.9     393.7     470.3      600.0   1,000.0   1.300.0
Fujian                       220.7      300.1     400.4     550.3     300.2   1,400.0   1.300.0   2,200.0
G mu                          111.2     122.5     139.3     160.4     201.6      236.0     330.0     426.0
Guangoag                     927.4      129.6   1,742.7   2.136.5   3.050.3   2.300.0    3.700.0   9,006.0
Guizhou                       111.9     115.4     122.1     124.4     146.8      156.0     240.0     479.0
Haiaan                        46.4       57.9      74.2     106.0     131.4      111.0     304.0     553.0
Hebel                        429.6      469.9     535.2     637.3     734.5      721.0    1,173.0    1343.0
Hemman                       322.4      353.1     407.0     544.6     660.4      433.0     762.0   1,299.0
Hubei                        3273       375.6     406.3     415.0     571.7      653.0    1,329.0   1.500.0
Hu _                         291.7      331.5     363.3     416.2     6753       933.0    1,630.0   2.000.0
Jiang,x                       206.0     236.5     253.2     297.4      347.4     672.0    1,175.0    1300.0
Jilun                         273.3     335.2     3912      465.6      564,3     730.0    o,000.0    1200.0
Qiagha,                        37.6      33.5      33.3      42.9       47.3      62.0      95.0      139.0
Sh"aat                        132.7     193.5     212.9     281.1      309.6     335.0     590.0      706.0
Shandong                      576.4     633.9     695.7     901.6   1.215.5      926.0   1.500.0   2.137.0
Shanui                        246.6     233.9     305.3     352.7      475.9     424.0     674.0      30.0
Sichuan                       3363      415.3     472.9     600.7      730.4     642.0   1,000.0   1.629.0
Yunna                         154.4     163.2     176.0     '67.5      292.9     298.0     497.0     609.0
Zbejiang                      603.5     701.3     824.3   1,00.7   1.203.6       950.0   1.360.0    2524.0
Suboul:    7.193.7   7.235.1   9.169.3  12307.9   15.9273   17.415.0  27,924.0  42,325.0
AUTONOMOUS REGIONS
Guangxi                       157.3     193.5     201.6       7.5      355.2     350.0     700.0      300.0
Inmr Mogoli                   214.3     253.9     263.1     373.9      373.9     329.0     490.0     623D0
N -                            32.6      33.5      36.3      41.9       49.7      77.0      39.0      131.0
Tibet                          12.1      12.7       14.2      16.9      21.9      27.0       40.0     400.0
Xingjiag                      109.4     122.5     133.3     174.1      195.9     240.0     347.0      431.0
Subal:       526.7     626.1      650.0     333.0     996.     1.023.0   1.666.0   :.3U50
TITAL                       3.725.3   9.157.5  12.046.5  14.975.6  19,222.1   21.171.0  33,23.0   51.97.0
Ragiam whezciaag wl be funded by doe WI Projec an dadowed.
Soae: MfT - July 1993
Do  Onto   U)CWJ 1m



- 46 -
Annex 1.3
Palo. 2 of 2
Pswpe's Republic of Min
TELCOMtOUNICATIONS PROJECr
L1 Ulahag. (Ugbea & Ral) Lam - Sow   r0oo
ACOW    ~ ~ ~ ~ ITahgm
1osim                          19U        19m       1990       1991      19927      1993       1995      1997
WMUNC1PALZr1ES
Raijia                        2S3.1      216.9     347.5      414.1      496.3     611.0      77s.0    1s5.0
Slagi                         269.4      363.4      412.2     567.7      769.7     M0O    1,352.0   2,065.0
ulu.                           11S.6     142.5      117.3     199.7      254.2     349.0      773.0    194.0
Suascaal:    631.1      7923      577.5    1.1322    1,520.2    1.U32.0   2.900.0    4,962.0
PROVINCE
Ani                           146.3      164.1     190.3      2293      322.4      330.0      514.0     671.0
Fuji.                          92.4      192.6     2423       305.5      4S0.5     450.0      1S0.0    I,X1.0
Gamu                           72.1       32.1      92.9      104.6      133.5     136.0      212.0     291.0
Guangdong                     622.6      169.4    1.160.5    1,553.0    2,101.2    2.630.0    4,661.0   6,304.
Guizbou                        673        73.1      30.0       36.9       973      126.0      139.0     335.0
Hainan                         2S.4       33.7      44.2       59.7       37.1     102.0      196.0     337.0
Hai                           244.0      267.0     2943       351.2      412.4     522.0      6U.0      940.0
::e __ r    ____
Hum                           1U.5      2123       2S0.2     292        31S.5     415.0      606.0      909.0
Hubei                         213.6      23.1      2623       297.7      361.4     491.0      72S.0      930.0
Hum                           1933       209.1     225.1      263.5      337.      421.0      630.0      3U0
rumsai                         1279      13S3       149.5     175.0      230.5     245.0      294.0      444.7
JiWm                           131.7     22.9       262.9     315.9      405.     434.0      610.0     320.
Qughotni 22.1                             24.5       27.1      29.7       35.4      44.S       66.0      132.0
Shaaa)u                        115.7     126.0      137.7     152.4       35.6      190.0     327.0      494.0
Sbhadong                       335.9     379.6      436.9     5112.      659.1      776.0    1,142.0    1,531.0
Shbasu                         134.8     143.1      161.1      IO6       225.2     259.0      346.0      437.0
Sichuan                        239.0     269.4      3m3       356.       411.7      543.0     73S.0    1.140.0
Yunana                         101.9     111.       120.      140.6      10.4       150.9     236.0      426.0
Zmuni..                        391.2     560.7      5t33      625.9      314.5      37.0    1,270.0   1,757.0
Suaibma:    4,449.2    53114    6,271.0   7,553.6   10,073.6   12,240.4   19,6W0.0  23,417.7
AUTONOMOUS REGIONS
Gu gza                         107.3     119.2      133.7      157.      209.5      233.0     331.0      475.0
Imroao  g oia                  139.4     1592       1I53       190A      222.7      255       336.0      436.0
Niugm                           19.6      22.7       27.5       29.9      36.2       44        66A.      920.0
TlR                              73         7.9       9.6       10.4       10.6      14.0       193      210.0
Xiaijisz"                       72.1      31.2       91.7      109.0     134.1      163.0     217.0      302.0
SubeoeJ:      346.2     390.2      442.1     497.2      613.2      709.5     969.5   2,413.0
TOTAL                        5,433.5    6,564.4    7.5913    9.233.0   12,207.6   14,711.9   23.549.5  35.792.7
Ragim whexdnba           heM be Amdd by de WS P. anmhjadowed.
Soure: MPT -. asy 19
OD                   imm



- 47 -
Annex 1.4
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LD Exchange Capacity (Automatic and Maual Circuit Temiadons) - ('0001
I                ActuS                 I           Twgets           I
Region                      1989      1990      1991      1992     1993      1995      1997|
B^. t . ^   v-.. ...:                         ~   ; 'i.............. ...... . ;
Shangnai                     15.8     12.7      14.7      24.6      43.0      90.0    140.0
Tianjin                       4.4      4-4       4.8       8.8      15.0      30.0     44.0
PROV1NCS
Anhui                        10.9      12.0     15.8      18.7      27.0      50.0     71.0
Fupn            -13.6   t7.4                    Z. 27     45.7'  r8.v         97.0  7 1I.
Ft*an:      ~~~ .*             A58
Guangdong                    43.1     60.7      67.8    117.4    155.0    250.0    281.0
Hainan                        4.4       7.9      7.5       7.1       7.1      1 5.0    21.0
Hebi .            :c.-. - --4 19.                      T2o. tt-.4~            66.0C TZW
Heilongliang                  6.8       7.0      8.1      19.2      23.0      51.0     75.0
Henan                         9.1      11.7     16.6      20.2      20.2      33.0     48.0
Hubei                         7.4       8.0     11.0      16.8      30.0      54.0      85.0
Huma                                    3Z       2.
Jiangsu                      14.5      18.8     33.8      65.9    107.0    120.0    174.0
Ji~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.             - . 1           tZ.4                    U;Q'
Jilin                         8.1       8.4     14.3      17.9      25.0      30.0     45.0
Qinghai                       2.8       2.8       2.9      3.0       3.0       3.0   .  3.0
Shaanxi                       8.5       9.1      13.0     16.9      17.0      36.0      52.0
Shanoong                     16.2      18.4     32.7      40.3      41.0      63.0      91.0
Shanxl                        8.1      10.1      10.7     16.6      16.6      25.0      36.0
Sichuan -1;,,, ... -         t7.C      15.0O:    list - t ..A. 25.8   ^ 2$ -   43.0     52.0'
vunnan                       12.2      13.4      17.0     19.5      19.5      22.0      32.0
Zh, ;i ,g:.       ,,8.6                22       . 25.0   44B.8 .. ..., 50.0 '0. O        ...0.
AUTONOMOUS REIONS
Guangxi                      10.4       8.6      10.0      17.4     17.4      22.0      31.0
Inner Mar.8a..                5*        6.2       71       IO12_~    ¶6.0 ...
ribet                         1.1       1.1       1.1       1.4      1.4       2.0       3.0
Xinggiang                     7.1       7.0       6.8       8.3      8.3       8.3      20.0
TOTAL                       309.8    361.8    483.2    717.3    936.9   1,532.4   2,13S5.0
Regions crossed by cables funded by the WB Project are shadowed.
Source: MPT - Jgjy 1993
00      awmas __



- 48 -
Annex 1.5
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telephone Lines in Service perlOO Population (End of 1992)
Population       Lines   Telephone
Region                     (Million)  (Thousand)   Densiv (%)
Beijing                      10.58        496.3         4.69
Shanghti                     12.97        769.7         5.93
Tianjin                       8.98        254.2         2.83
Subtotal:                            .... .. . ... 4
PROVINCES:
Anhui                        60.64        322.4         0.53
Fujian                       32.34        450.5         1.39
Gansu                        23.53        133.5         0.57
Guangdong                    67.14      2,101.2         3.13
Guizhou                      33.45         97.3         0.29
Hainan                        6.77         87.1         1.29
Hebei                        66.01        482.4         0.73
Heilongjiang                 36.10        472.2         1.31
Hem                          92.72        385.8         0.42
Hubei                        56.86        361.4         0.64
Hunan                        63.09        387.8         0.61
Jianpu                       69.33        904.4         1.30
Jiangxi                      38.98        230.5         0.59
Jiin                         25.32        405.8         1.60
Tiaoing                      40.39        665.7         1.65
Qinghai                       4.50         35.4         0.79
Shaanxi                      34.35        188.6         0.55
Shandong                     89.31        659.8         0.74
Shanxi                       29.92        225.2         0.75
Sichuan                     110.00        481.7         0.44
Yunnan                       38.01        180.4         0.47
Zhljiang                     42.88        814.5         1.90
Subtotal:                             ...... ........
AtFMNOMOUS REGIONS:
Gui                          44.31        209.5         0.47
Imma Mongolia                22.2         222.7         1.00
Ningxa                        4.88         36.2         0.74
Tibet                         2.22         10.6         0.48
Xingjiang                    15.92        134.8         0.85
Subtotal:   P.R       - 63)$.          1L,
TOTAL-- ..
Soure: MPT - July 1993
Do Cmmn&  Su,In32.8 I IM1



- 49 -
Annex 1.6
Peopie's Rebpu of rhim
TELECOMMUNICATnONS PROJECT
Tepbhooe Demnd and Supply i Urban Arsi (1992)
Region                     Exchange Luie         Lues in    Outsading Regimred Deman
CACItV          Servcme             Lins            ' ()
MMNICIPALrrS:
Beijing                          803.000        477.513            65.S13            13.8
Sbaghiai                         863.004        664.870           475.630            71.5
Tianjim                          349.900        226.380            26.426            11.7
Subeoal:      2.015.904-    1,3K763                  ;              416.
PROVINCES:
Anhui                            326.7S6        253.947            19.562             7.7
Fujian                           619.516        371.912            62.700            16.9
Gansi                            164.144        115.192             7.833             6.3
Guangdong                       1.790.41S      1.328.662          318.171            23.9
GuiZbou                          106.250         76.425             4.927             6.4
Haman                            109.840         78.947            11.628            14.7
Hebei                            559.672        3t2.990            30.147             7.9
Heilonejing                      563.407        412.631            82.198            19.9
Henan                            474.495        309.331            24.331             7.9
Hubei                            366.706        258.567            11.096             4.3
Hunan                            442.746        268.263            17.707             6.6
Jiagsu                           933.736        697.962           110.316            15.3
Jianxi                           228.352         175.436            15.387            8.5
Jilin                            437.350         330.927           33.973            10.3
Liaonnng                         798.210        565.093            52.501             9.3
Qinghai                           43.650          33.656            2.68              8.0
Sbaanxi                          226.210         148.494            12.894            8.7
Shadong                          70S.851        459.246            44.063             9.6
Shamsi                           360.902         132.074            8.432             4.6
SwAclan                          606.870         387.585            16.591            4.3
Yunnan                           217.300         135.342            19.216           14.2
Zhejang                          675.292         499.196            82.953           16.6
SuboxsiL   iv.T               7471.U53                               ;2,
AUTONOMOUS REGIONS:
Guangal                          257.912         160.137            20.604            12.9
Inner Mongo4s                    2U.610          L86.641            23.423            12.5
Ningaa                            43.562          33.336             1.900            5.7
ribet                             20.995          10.390               63             0.6
Xinviang                          161.234        120.110            17.253            14.4
Subtal:         7iZ              1A0*4       .                          '-.'
TOTAL:         54S7 .0 ...... .. 5....      -.                    - ...
( ) Pe..m wih rcrpect mo fines m servce.
S ue: MPT - July 1993
DO CHOA4   6.U8L 11Mm



- 50 -
Annex 1.7
Pps Republic of Chi
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PRO1EC!T
Quarloy of Telepbos Sernic
Indicamrs
Reia                         (1)  I  (2)       (3)      (4)      (5)       (6)
MUNICIPALSTIES
Beijing                        1.75    30.00    70.00     0.10    48.51    30.19 
Sh ngt i                      7.53    89.00    11.00      0.01    42.20    2SU5
ruSngm                        5.051   98.00      2.00     0.05    4        27.50
Aveng-:     4.           43 OW   :t36- 2:
PItOVNCES                [
Anklu                         3.l51   97.00      3.00     0.15    54.92    40.78
Fujian                        8.991   99.00      1.00     0.04    60.13    34.22
Gau                           0.23    62.00    38.00      0.01    65.731   64.54
Guangdong                      1 771   93.001    7001    0.121   47.361   30.05
Guizbou                        1.371   56.001   44.001    0.02i   65.471   24.30
Haina                          1.101   99.00     1.001    0.3S1   46.091   20.68
Hebei                         2.211  100.00      0.00j    0.49i   62.351   30.28
HedomWitang                    1.94w   983.0     2.00     0.611   61.92    I,.9"
Heng                          4.001   99.00      I.00     0.561   68.U1    28.90
Hubi                           11.77    99.W     1.00     0.05    63.401   23.00
Hum                           13.081   99.00     1.00     0.05    56.91    40.16
JinasgiU                      0.03    99.00      I.W      0.33    45.62    21.92
Janglu                        9.7   100.W        0.00     0.49    56.70    31.36
1idm                          3.90    92.00      8.00     0.34    52.31    28.56
Lamoazug                      9.52    71.00    29.00      0.49    42.58    27.34
Qighbac                       4.001   77.00    23.W       0.02j   66.41    35.41
Shaanai                      21.40k   96.00      4.00     0.24    57.52    33.24
Shandong                      6.67   100.00      0.W      072    66.04    30.53
Shinma                        9.02    99.00      1.00     0.33    65.35    27.2
Sichuan                        4.371   89.001   11.00W    0.341   60.21i   24.42
Yunn                          0.311  100.001    0 001    0.01   50.741   29.64
Zheiaag                        1.201   99.001    I.W1    0.431   66.051   28.20
Aveng      iEfSj  -ti*ij       &uJ:    0a2C    5LS    31ff 
AUTONOMOUS REGIONS                 I
GUana                          3.11    99.00     I.00     0.01    80.201   39.77
lir MoUgoir                   4. 14    98.00    2.00     0.01    59.501   Z3.35
N.gxa                          1.74    40.00    60.00     0.16    56.291   28.65
Tibet                          1.57   100.00!    0.00     0.07    65.01        -
Xijnn                         15.65    69.001    31W00    0.02    55.471   30.26
Avsmp:~
Couy AveTa.e0                                           SSS:G  ..
(1) Fal apes 100 wor.g hiu  per  _         n(awg)
(2)    in mk cables and tbscnber lins- 5
(3)   - in uwiaglead a facc bfdibs - S
(4) Datn of balm ckwd (alung) - Hamm
(5) Comlimon rme of ocal calls (effomi calos u-% of ow calls diad) - %
(6) Com mm  m of doioc LD coals- S
Sommm: bMPT - July 1993
Do o__A m*nva llH



- 51 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 2
People's Republic of China
Ministnv of Posts and Telecommunications
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF SECTOR STUDY
The Bank's report "People's Republic of China - Telecommunications
Sector Study: Survey, Assessment and Recommendations" (Report No. 9413 of
February 14, 1992) made a number of recommendations for the next stages of the
reform process underway. These are summarized below.
Cmercialize operations:  (a) separate the functions of enterprise
ownership control, enterprise management, and government policy-making and
regulation,  eventually vesting these three types of functions  in different
entities or persons, dispersing public ownersnip of operating enterprises, and
restructuring some enterprises as joint-stock companies; (b) create national
enterprises to develop facilities and services that fully decentralized local P&T
enterprises cannot effectively undertake; (c) introduce modern business
management tools, beginning with a system of commercial accounts linked to MOF s
broader accounting reform program; and (d) once commercial accounting data are
available, review policies for redistributing profits among P&T enterprises.
Diversify supply and develop ccopetition: (a) facilitate commercial
interworking of dedicated and public networks; (b) encourage TVEs, other large
users, and independent entrepreneurs to build parts of the public local network.
and either run them as separate operating enterprises interconnected to the
public network or make arrangements for their operation by the local P&Ts; (c)
promote schemes wherebv groups of users can build and manage separate networks
to meet specialized business needs; and (d) develop competition especially in
.SAT, _ellular, and value-aaded services.
Rationalize tariffs: (a) change the structure and level of tariffs to
better reflect costs and reduce cross-subsidies among services and provinces;
(b) revise arrangements for revenue settlement among enterprises for services
provided jointly.
Develop regulation: (a) complete separation of policy and regulatory
functions from enterprise functions in MPT and the provincial P&T administra-
tions; (b) develop regulatory policies and procedures especially with respect
to tariffs, licensing and interconnection of new providers, service access and
quality, technical standards, and radio spectrum use; and (c) enact a telecommu-
nications law.
Separate  posts  and  telec^-munications:   (a)  end  subsidies  from
telecommunications operations; (b) extend separation of postal and telecommunica-
tions operations to all administrative levels; and (c) where appropriate,



- 52 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 2
continue joint provision of services in small places through contractual arrange-
ments between post and telecommunications enterprises.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 5
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
OUTLINE OF SECTOR REFORMS IN 1994-97
The State Council is expected to decide by the end of 1993 on the
directions and first steps of a reorganization of MPT that would eventually
restructure MPT's operations as separate state-owned enterprises and refocus the
scaled-down MPT on policy, regulation, and strategic planning. At the same time,
policy decisions are expected with respect to new entry, competition in non--
basic services and networks, and interconnection of public and dedicated
networks. Steps would be taken to attract new resources, including opening
opportunities for independent businesses to invest and manage telecommunications
facilities, and starting to raise debt and equity capital in domestic capital
markets. National legislation and ministerial regulations are being developed to
provide the framework to implement these new policies and structures.
R~trrL the MF
The 1994-97 reform agenda includes the extensive restructuring of MPT.
Operations.  All telecommunications and postal operations would be
reorganized outside MPT. Basic telephone operations, which account for the bulk
of MPT's business including the 2,500 P&Ts and remaining enterprise functions of
the central MPT and 30 provincial P&T administrations, would be restructured as
one or more state enterprises.   Various possible corporate forms are being
considered. Postal services would be eventually separated fully from telecommuni-
cations, and also structured as one or more state enterprises.
MPT's non-basic telecommunications operations would become national
enterprises separate from those providing basic telephone services. That is
already the case of China Telecommunications Broadcasting Satellite Corporation
(CTBSC), the domestic satellite company established in 19B8 as a separate legal
entity. Several new national enterprises would be spun off from MPT, such as for
data transmission and countrywide cellular service.
Policy, Regulation, and Strategic Planning. MPT would retain responsi-
bility mainly for policy, regulation, and strategic planning functions in both
the telecommunications and postal sectors. In particular, the MPT would (a)
formulate sector policies and broad sector strategic plans, (b) draft laws for
consideration by the State Council and the People's Congress, (c) issue operating
licenses and approve types of equipment for connection to the public network, (d)
promulgate and enforce regulations and basic technical standards, (e) manage and
issue licenses for the use of the radio spectrum, (f) facilitate coordination
among sector companies, and (g) carry out government administrative functions in-
cluding representing China in international telecommunications organizations and
treaties. Some of these functions will be organized in two tiers, as they are
now, namely MPT headquarters and 30 provincial P&T administrations.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 5
Ownership Control. The restructured MPT may also be asked to exercise
ownership control over the operating enterprises, on behalf of the State. MPT
would also, for the time being, oversee the operation of the national basic
network.
This would inevitably result in conflicts of interest between.MPT as
owner of operating enterprises and as regulator of an increasingly diverse and
competitive market in which these enterprises are major participants.
Welfare. Initial steps are also being taken towards spinning off the
P&T enterprises' housing, health, and pension responsibilities. Housing is
expected to be privatized. In preparation for this, employees of some P&Ts are
being required to pay an increasing share of housing costs, offset by higher
remunerations; in some other P&Ts, houses are being sold to employees at reduced
prices. Some of the P&T hospitals are really public hospitals used by P&T
workers, who get part of the cost of these services paid by the P&Ts. Work is
also underway to reorganize the pension system. This is complicated by pensions
being paid as part of the P&T operating expenses to compensate for insufficiently
funded pension reserves.
The divestiture of P&T social responsibilities for staff, however, can
only pick up speed once the much-awaited reform of government employee salaries
is implemented. Real cash income of P&T workers must rise substantially before
they can afford to buy services which used to be provided as employment benefits.
A related issue is the need to pay skilled P&T staff salaries that are
commensurate with those offered by alternative employers in other highly
technical sectors (e.g., electronics, computers, air transportation, banking),
which are also growing at a fast pace.
Developing Competitive Markets
There is already effective competition in some lines of business. A
number of companies offer paging services, which have grown at a fast pace in
major cities.  The market for subscriber terminal equipment (e.g., telephone
sets, private branch exchanges, facsimile and telex machines) is highly
competitive, and equipment is available to the customers from many suppliers
whose products have been approved by MPT for connection to the public network.
As a result, a wide variety of products, of better quality, has become
available.l/ The market of network equipment is also highly competitive, and
P&Ts which earlier were bound to purchase equipment for network modernization and
expansion from MPT factories and other preassigned sources, now do most of their
procurement through competitive bidding. The result is some of the world's lowest
equipment prices (e.g., switching). The construction market has begun to open.
I/   The liberalization of tie subscriber terminl market has had an impact on the esmblished manufacturers. For example. the MPT factory
in Tienjui that supplied much of the telephone set to P&Ts obligated to buy from it. has seen its market taken over by a joint venture
manufacturer tn Guangdong producing more modern set of better quality.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 3 of 5
Several key policy decisions towards more competitive telecommunica-
tions markets are expected to accompany the restructuring of MPT by the end of
1993. However, state-owned enterprises to be spun off from MPT would retain the
monopoly of basic telephone service and related networks, which accounts for the
bulk of the telecommunications business.
Dedicated Networks. Of particular importance are steps to encourage
construction of dedicated networks and their full use to provide public and
private services. Dedicated networks will be allowed to (a) lease or sell excess
transmission capacity among themselves and to/from the public network, (b)
interconnect to the public network, subject to technical standards and access
charges, and (c) offer services to the public (e.g., in mining towns, using
facilities built for operation of the mining complex) and extend service to new
places. These measures have potential for achieving substantial efficiency gains
in both the public and dedicated networks, and for expanding coverage of public
services at low incremental cost. The measures also would help develop major
trunk networks independent from MPT; these could become competing long distance
carriers in the future, should government policy evolve in that direction.
Non-Basic Services. A wide range of non-basic public telecommunications
services and networks will be opened to competition. Cellular (450 MHz), trunk
mobile, VSAT, and other wireless services and networks will be open to competing
providers subject to MPT license.2/ A 900 MKz countrywide cellular service,
however, will be reserved for state monopoly.  Value added services, such as
information services, electronic mail, electronic data interchange, and shared
data processing, will be open to unlimited competitive entry, subject only to
notifying MPT but without requiring licenses. State-owned enterprises to be spun
off from the MPT will compete in some of these markets.
Construction. The construction market will become fully liberalized.
While individual operating enterprises are likely to retain some construction
capability of their own, as is customary in other countries, they will rely
mainly on independent contractors for civil works, installation of major
equipment, laying and splicing of cables for transmission as well as local
networks, and other large works. National, provincial, and local firms will
compete for these contracts.
Attracting New Resources
Although at present investments are largely self-financed3/ and hence
access to capital is not a critical constraint on telecommunications development
in the immediate future, sustained high rate of investment will eventually
require raising large amounts of equity and debt from outside the sector. The
2/ The argument for licensing is mauily that the radio spectrum has a limited capacity. For example, with current technology, two or three
cellular networks is die mniximum that can be operted in one locality.
3/   Mainly from depreciation, mained earnings, and Ilre mandatory user connection fees an  call surharges.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 4 of 5
policy decisions under consideration should improve the prospects for capital
mobilization.
Access to Capital Markets. As a first step, MPT expects that selected
P&T enterprises will, on a pilot basis, issue bonds in the domestic markets. Some
manufacturing and construction enterprises would be restructured as joint-stock
companies and raise new capital in domestic markets.4/ Several of the national
telecommunications enterprises to be spun off from MPT for the provision of non-
basic services would likewise be organized as joint-stock companies. The sector's
ability to raise capital in domestic and international markets in the future,
however, will be mainly conditioned by the corporate structure and ownership
decisions regarding the enterprises that would take over MPT's basic services and
networks.
Build-Out of Local Networks. Following trials underway in some
provinces, joint ventures and private investors will be encouraged to build
extensions of the local telephone network (e.g., to serve office or residential
complexes) as integral parts of the basic infrastructure. This is expected to
play a key role in both sustaining high network growth rates and attracting new
sources of capital to the public infrastructure. Various alternatives are being
considered to operate these new facilities, including independent management by
the developer and leasing to the local P&T.
Specialized Business Networks. The development and management of
independent national networks to meet the needs of numerous users in particularly
communication-intensive sectors, such as banking and civil aviation, is expected
to multiply. This will both offer users greater flexibility in meeting their
needs, and attract capital and management skills from other sectors to
telecommunications.
Township and Village Enterprises. TVEs, which in the past have
contributed significantly to developing local telephone facilities, are expected
to further mobilize investment funds for this purpose.
Developing the Iegal and Regulatoy Fraork
The legal and regulatory framework for the reformed sector will be
provided by a telecommunications law (there is none at present) and basic
regulations in key areas.
Telecumication  Law. A telecommunications law is expected to be
promulgated by the National People's Congress in 1995. A draft, reflecting the
policy decisions expected by the end of 1993 on restructuring the MPT, will be
submitted by MPT to the Department of Legal Affairs of the State Council in mid-
1994. This Department undertake will all necessary inter-agency consultations
before finalizing a draft to be sent in 1994 or 1995 to the NPC.
4/ Tbe objective is to zansform all of these enterprises into companies. but not all will meet the govemnment requirements to do so.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 5 of 5
Basic Regulations. In parallel with preparing and processing the
telecommunications law, MPT is preparing guidelines for the regulation of
competitive services. In 1994-95 MPT and the State Council expects to issue
regulations competitive services, dedicated networks, and the interconnection of
dedicated and public networks. Other regulations will follow.






ANNEX 2.3
- 59 -                  Page 1 of 8
Mr. Shahid Javed Burg:i
Directcr
China and c         Department
September, 1993
Dear M!r. Burki;,
As   we   approacn   the   time   to   negotiate   the   proposed
telecommunications loaib,   would like to summarize the scope and
mairi directions      the  reforms  underway  and  planned  in  the
-elecommunic=::ons sectcr.
The Government  cf Chin;:  -- successfully  implementing  a large
program for telecommunications development, the success of which is
central to realizing the economic growth objectives of China. The
Program comprises accelerated expansion and modernization of the
telecommunications network, as well as a process of sector reform
begun in the 1980s and likely to continue beyond the 1990s.
The sector reform aims at the separation of the government and
enterprise   functions   within   the   Ministry   of   Posts   and
Telecommunications (MPT', and the transformation of the operation
entities into the market-oriented enterprises. Meanwhile, it is
also our target to aeveiop a prosperous telecommunications market,
rationalize economic relations and maintain communications order
with   the   growth   of   increasingly   competitive   market   of
telecommunications equipment, services and networks. Important
progress has already been made in these directions. In particular,
management decisions have been decentralized to the individual P&T
Administrations (PTA), tariffs have been adjusted, and competitive
markets have been developed for network and customer equipment and
some non-basic services.
The next steps include the program on the reorganization of the MPT
made public at the end of 1993 and the implementatiorn  of it.
Government and enterprise functions will be separated within the
XPT by means of transferring the enterprise functions from the
government functional departments into the Directorate General of
Telecommurnications  (DGTJ  and  the Directorate  General cf Posts
(DOP), while the government functions within these two Directorate



ANNEX 2.3
-60-                    Page2of8
Generals  will  be  transferred  into  the  government  functional
departments.  As v  resu't. DGT and  DGP will  become  autonomous
operating units respectively.  this  will eventually  lead to the
result that the HPT', operation departments are reorganized as
separate state-owned enterprises, and the MPT focuses mainly on
Policy, regulation and strategic planning. Soon policy decisions
will be taken by the MPT with respect to new entry, competition in
non-basic services and the networks, and the interworking between
public and private networks. Financially independent companies will
be established in the field of industry, construction, materials
and competitive telecommunications services. and measures will be
adopted to attract new financial resources for investment. State
legislation and ministerial regulations are being developed in the
MPT to provide the framework to implement these new policies and
structures.
The Medium Term Policy Action Program. attached t_ this letter,
summarizes important achievements in telecommunications sector
reform until 1993 as well as key steps that the Government expects
to undertake in the next four years.
Sincerely,
Yang .:ianzu
Vice Nlinister
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
Attachment: Action Program



- 61 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 8
Table 2.1: MEDIUM-TERM POLICY ACTION PROGRAM
OBJECTIVE             ACHIEVEMENTS BY             EXPECTED IN            EXPECTED IN
END 1993                  1994-95                1996-97
I. RESTRUCTURE MPT
1.1  DZCENTRALIZE        Decisions on opera-
MANAGEMENT.              tions, network devel-
opment, and finances
shifted from central
MPT to P&Ts.
1.2  SZPARATE GOVERN-   Contract responsibil-
MINT AND ENTERPRISE      ity system in place
FUNCTIONS.               between MPT and 30
provincial PTAs, and
between each of these
and the city P&Ts, and
between city and coun-
ty P&Ts.
Begin separation of      Telecommunications and postal operations
government and enter-   to be restructured as separate enter-
prise functions within prises. MPT to remain responsible mainly
central MPT.             for policy, regulation, and strategic
planning.
1.3  CREATE NATIONAL    China Telecommunica-    MPT to spin off sev-    Pilot projects to
ENTERPRISES TO COM-      tions Broadcasting        eral new national         establish joint-
PLEMENT LOCAL P&Ts.      Satellite Corporation   enterprises for data,   stock companies.
(CTBSC) established as cellular, and other
national enterprise      non-basic services.
under separate manage- CTBSC to initiate
ment.  Initiated very   mobile satellite ser-
small aperture termi-   vice.
nal (VSAT) services.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 4 of 8
OBJECTIVE             ACHIEVEMENTS BY            EXPZCTED IN            EXPZCTED IN
END 1993                  1994-95               1996-97
1.4 SEPARATE MAJOR       MPT and PTA depart-      Some manufacturing and construction en-
LINKS OF BUSINESS.       ments in charge of       terprises to become joint-stock compa-
manufacturing, con-      nies.
struction, and pro-
curement reorganized
as autonomous enter-
prises.
Postal operations        Gradually extend sep-
separated from tele-    aration of posts and
communications in all   telecommunications to
provincial capitals      lower levels.
and on pilot basis in
some other c:ties.
Postal and telecommu-
nications accounts
separated at all lev-
els.
Steps towards transferring responsibility
for workers, housing, health, and
pensions from P&Ts to other organiza-
ions.
|I. DEVELOP COMPErTITION
2.1 DEVELOP COMPETI-    Effective countrywide
TION IN SUPPLY OF        competition in provi-
EQUIPMENT AND WORKS.    sion of subscriber and
network equipment.
Some competition among Fully competitive
national and provin-    construction market.
cial construction
companies.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page S of 8
OBJECTIVE             ACRIEVEMENTS BY             EXPECTED IN         EXPEC`TD IN
END 1993                  1994-95                1996-97
2.2 DEVELOP COM3PETI-    Numerous independent    License existing and    License competing
TION IN PUBLIC SER-      providers of paging       new paging operators.   providers of 450
VICES AND NETWORxS.      services.                 License new providers   Mhz cellular and
of trunk mobile and       other wireless
domestic VSAT.            services.
Open.entry for com-
petitive provision of
value-added services.
2.3 FACILITATE DEVEL-   Large users have built  Dedicated networks
OPMENT OF DEDICATED      own dedicated net-        will be allowed to
NETWORKS AND INTER-      works.  Regional dedi-  lease excess capacity
WORKING WITH PUBLIC       cated networks are       to each other and
NETWORKS,                allowed access to the   to/from public
public network.          networks.
Interconnection of dedicated networks
(including VSAT) to public networks to be
allowed subject to access charges and
technical standards.
I$I. RATIONALIZE TARiFFS AND REDUCE CROSS-SUBSIDIES
3.1  ADJUST TARIFFS       -elepnone rentai and
TO REFLECT COSTS.          ocai cail charges
raised, nut still
below costs.
Postal charges in-                                  End cross-subsidy
creased to reduce                                   from telecommuni-
postal losses.                                      cations to posts,
by adjusting
postal tariffs
and, if neces-
sary, direct
state subsidies.
Initiate study of        Complete tariff study
telecommunicartions      and im=lement recom-
tariffs and tariff       mendations.
management.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 6 of 8
OBJECTIVE             ACRIEVDMWNS BY              E-zCTED IN            ErWZCTED IN
END 1993                  1994-95                1996-97
3.2  STRZAKLZNE TAR-    P&Ts given authority    Revise and further
IFr MANAGEMZNT.          to set local telephone  decentralize proce-
tariffs and surcharges  dures for setting and
in consultation with    approving tariffs.
local authorities.
IV. ATTRACT NEW CAPITAL
4.1  MOBILIZE LOCAL      High subscriber con-    P&Ts to start selling
PRIVATE CAPITAL.         nection fees and long   bonds in domestic
distance surcharges      markets.
used to help finance
investment in public
network.
4.2  ATTRACT RESOURC-   Some multi-user dedi-   Encourage development
IS FROM OTHER SIC-       cated networks devel-   of specialized net-
TORS.                    oped.                    works to meet the
needs of particular
economic sectors
(e.g., banking, c:vil
aviation)



- 65 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 7 of 8
OBJECTIVE             ACRISVEMENTS BY             FXECT5D SN             EXPZCTED IN
END 1993                  1994-94                1996-97
4.3  ATTRACT TVE RE-    incentives available    Examine options to
SOURCES.                 to TVEs for building    further facilitate TVE
networks jointly with   participation.
P&Ts.
V. INTRODUCE MODERN MANAGEMENT TOOLS
5.1  DZSIGN AND IM-      General guidelines for  Implement new ac-           Extend to all
PLEMENT COMMrRCIAL       commercial accounts       counting systems,         provinces.
ACCOUNTING SYSTDE.       agreed by MOF ana MPT   policies, and proce-
effective July 1,        dures in two pilot
1993.                    provinces.
Initial MPT training    Train some 25,000
of senior and middle-   accountants.
level accountants and
instructors.
VI. DEVELOP LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORX AND CAPABILITY
6.1  ENACT TELECOM-      Draft law prepared by   Draft to be revised in
UNNICATIONS LAW.          MPT on behalf of         line with MPT restruc-
Naticnal People's Con-  turing and related
gress. ;.. consultation  policy decisions.
with otner agencies.
Revised draft law to
State Council by mid-
1994.
National People's
Congress to enact
telecommunications law
in 1995.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 8 of 8
OBJECTIVE             ACZIEVEMrNTS BY             WECTED IN             EZ"ZCTZD IN
END 1993                 1994-95                1996-97
6.2  ESTABLISH TELE-    Establish guiding         Enact regulations for
CO)MONICATIONS REGU-    principles for regu-    competitive services,
LLTIONS.                 lating competitive       dedicated networks,
services.                and their intercon-
nection to public
networks.
6.3  ESTABLISH AND       Service targets are      Service targets to be
MONITOR SERVICE TAR-    included in contract    made public.  Improve
GETS AND  zcEMacAL       responsibility svstem.  monitoring.  Penalties
STANDARDS.                                        when targets are not
met.
Subscriber equipment    Additional types of
standards set by MPT.   equipment to be li-
Licenses issued for      censed as they reach
new types after test-   the market.
ing by specialized in-
stitutes.
Networks standards set
and enforced by MPT.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 1 of 3
People's Republic of China
Ministrv of Posts and Telecommunications
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
ACCOUNTING SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND TRAIN1NG:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
Objectives
The basic ob)ectives of this technical assistance and training are: to
design required systems enhancements to be used by all MPT enterprises and guide
the implementation of these enhancements in two pilot provinces to better enable
them to record and report their financial activities according to market-oriented
accounting principles and international standards; and to provide intensive
training to key MPT financial staff in the application and practices of such
principles and standards.
Scope of Work
Accounting nyst3:
Requiremenrs analvsis.  Requirements for new systems, or for enhance-
ments to existing systems will be analyzed and documented taking into account.
inter alia, the kinds and volumes of transactions; required journals, ledgers and
other accounting records; and the tvpes and contents of needed financial reports.
Evaluacion of software options. Based upon the requirements analysis,
options for meeting accounting system software needs will be evaluated.
Particular attention will be given to the cost effectiveness of MPT using proven
commercially available software packages. Specific software purchases would be
recommended to MPT, together with changes to existing software, as appropriate.
Hardware and Software procurement. Technical assistance will be given
to MPT in the procurement of any needed systems hardware and software.
Chart of Accounts.   Assistance will be given to MPT in revising, as
necessary, ;ts enterprise charts of accounts.
Policies and Procedures. Accounting policies and procedures will be
documented.   The documentation will comprise clear policy statements for the
various accounting functions related to the MPT enterprises, as well as step-by-
step procedures supplemented by flow charts.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 3
Systems Installation.   The installation of any new hardware and
software systems, as well as the initial application of new policies and
procedures and any modifications to existing systems, will be supervised at each
enterprise site, as needed.
Training of Esterprise Finacial Staff.   Formal training will be
provided to enterprise financial staff in the operation of any new computerized
systems, and in the documented accounting policies and procedures.
Operations Assistance.    Direct  assistance  will  be  provided  to
enterprise financial staff, and to MPT management, in making new systems
operational; in the on-going operation of the systems and in the use of various
financial reports.
Lazge-scale Implementacion Planning.   Prior to completion of the
accounting systems work in the pilot provinces, assistance will be provided to
MPT in the detailed planning for their replicating the systems in other
provinces.
Training:
In addition to the systems-related training, an intensive program of
formal training will be provided to selected MPT financial staff in the
application and practice of market-oriented accounting principles, international
accounting standards, and of telecommunications industry standards and practices.
It is expected that such training will comprise various seminars and workshops
ranging in duration from one day to perhaps several weeks. The specific topics
and contents of the seminars and workshops will be agreed with MPT management,
as appropriate, during the time the accounting systems support is being provided.
Levei of Effort
The pilot accounting systems work will be undertaken in some 140
separate enterprises with identical accounting requirements. It is expected that
no more than six foreign specialists from a major international accounting firm
will be required during a period of no more than fifteen months. The foreign
specialist team should represent appropriate capabilities and experience in
accounting systems design and implementation, training, and telecommunications
industry accounting practices. It is expected that the firm will supplement the
foreign specialists with full time professional accountants from within China.
Their proposed work plan would specify the level of this support. Proposed work
and staffing plans should reflect a highly cost effective approach to executing
the stated scope of work.



69
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 3
Suggested Evaluation Criteria
Criteria                                                    Assigned Points
Expressed understanding of accounting reform                             10
objectives and current MPT accounting practices
Proposed work plan                                                       40
Capabilities and experience of proposed foreign
specialist team
- accounting systems design and implementation                         25
- telecommunications industry experience, prior                        15
relevant experience in China, and professional
credentials (e.g., CPA or CA)
Proposed fees and expenses                                               10
TOTAL                                                                 100






- 71 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page I of 4
People's Republic of China
MinistY of Posts and Telecommunications
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STIDY OF TELECOMMUNICAIIONS TARIFFS:
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS
A tariff study will be undertaken by the Ministry of Posts and Telecom-
munications of China (MPT) as part of a sector reform and investment project
supported by a proposed  loan from the World Bank.   Technical assistance,
comDrising consultancy services to MPT and professional visits aoroad of MPT
staff,  ;s required to help MPT carry out this study.   A grant from  SITS
(Beredningen for Internationellt Tekniskt-ekonomiskt Samarbete), a Swedish
government development agency, will cover eligible costs of this technical
assistance.
Background
Telecommunications tariffs have been adjusted in recent years to better
reflect the costs of providing service, system capacity shortages, and the need
to generate funds for accelerated investment. However, a more systematic review
of tariffs structure, level, and management practice is needed. This need is
made more urgent by sustained rapid network growth, increasing operational
autonomy and commercial orientation of the P&T enterprises, government policies
that require postal services to be financed separately from telecommunications
and open up parts of the non-basic telecommunications business to competition,
and inflation.
Objectives
The tariff study has four objectives:
(a)  propose and justify a set of telecommunications tariffs that meet the
objectives of economic efficiency and sector financing, and recommend
a program to implement these tariffs;
(b)  establish a methodology to adjust these tariffs to the situation of
individual P&T enterprises, and to revise tariffs from time to time;
(c)  develop and assess options for mechanisms for tariff adjustments and
approvals, and recommend any changes in the current arrangements; and



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 2 of 4
(d)  examine the present international accounting rates and settlement
arrangements and recommend any changes to be pursued by MPT in the
international arena.
Appmax*
A team of about 10 telecommunications experts will be established by
the MPT's Department of Finance to carry out the study. This tariffs study team
will include experts drawn from the Department of Finance, the Directorate
General of Telecommunications, the Directorate General of Posts, the Center for
Economic and Technology Development, and the Beijing P&T University. One member
of the team will be designated by the Department of Finance to lead the team.
The team leader and most members will be assigned on a full-time basis to the
study for its duration.  Some members of the team and MPT staff will visit
foreign operating companies and regulatory agencies to become familiar with their
approaches to tariffs.
Main Tasks
The study will mainly coprise four tasks:
l.  Review the current situation: (a) describe the present procedures for
determining and approving telecommunications and postal tariffs in China, (b)
describe the present tariff structure for major categories of services, and their
evolution in real and current terms in recent years, Cc) compare present tariffs
and their evolution in recent years with that of selected other countries, and
(d) identify critical shortages in network capacity and likely future evolution.
I:.  Estimate costs of services:  fa) examine alternative cost concepts
(e g. , historical, long-run marginal) and determine which is most appropriate for
the study, (b) determine the appropriate level of disaggregation of costs (e.g.,
by provinces, services), (c) review the cost elements used in China as the basis
for pricing, compare with international practice, and recommend any necessary
changes, and (d) calculate a set of cost estimates to be used as the basis for
determining ideal prices that would maximize economic efficiency.
II1. Detezinine optiml tariffs and implementation plan: (a) determine how
the set of ideal prices should be modified to meet the enterprises' financial
needs and ration excess demand where capacity shortages are likely to continue,
(b) determine a set of optimal prices that maximizes economic efficiency taking
into account capacity shortages and meets the enterprises' financial require-
ments, and (c) propose a plan to implement these tariffs in a reasonable period
of time, taking into account government policies and other practical factors.
IV.  Other: Discuss and make recommendations regarding (a) the management
of tariffs setting and approval, separately for monopoly and competitive services
and networks, and (b) international accounting rates and settlements.



7 3
ANNEX 3.2
Page 3 of 4
rTmetable
The study will be carried out over a period of 12 months, beginning one
month after the signing of the contract with the consultants.
About one month after the team begins work with the assistance of the
consultants, it will report on the methodology and work plan it intends to
follow.
After about six months from the start, the team will report on
progress, which should include the results of tasks I and II above and a revised
plan for the balance of its work.
About one month before the ena. the team will have prepared a draft
final report.
These reports will be presented and discussed in workshops attended by
officials of MPT and other relevant government agencies. The World Bank and BITS
will be invited to attend. The World Bank will monitor progress of the study as
part of its supervision of the proposed loan.
Tecical Asistsnc  - Soope of Work
MPT proposes to employ a specialized consulting firm to provide
technical assistance to the tariffs study team primarily in the areas of cost
analysis, tariffs management, and economic and financial analysis of telecommuni-
cations tariffs.
The consultants, as a grouD or individually as needed, will join the
:ariff study team from t:rne to time, mainly to help the team:
'a)  'ormulate the anaiytic approach, work program, and timetable for the
tariff study,
(b)  organize a program of professional visits abroad,
(c)  assist in specific tasks and problem areas,
(d) review and discuss progress of the tariff study from time to time and
assist with preparation of the workshops, and
(e)  prepare a final report :ncluding recommendations for implementation.
Budget and Sources of Funds
The study will require about 6 man-months of foreign experts and about
15 man-months of professional study visits abroad. Tentatively, it is estimated
that a total of about USS 250,000 will be needed for these purposes.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.2
Page 4 of 4
The cost of the consultants, including travel to and from China, will
be covered by the grant from BITS. The grant will also meet expenses in Sweden
of professional visits by MPT staff. The proposed World Bank loan includes an
allocation to meet any remaining foreign COstS.
Expenses incurred by the consultants in China, including subsistence
per diem and domestic travel, will be met by MPT. MPT will also provide office
space, secretarial and language services, computer and communication facilities,
and other necessary local support. MPT will meet travel and other costs of
professional visits abroad not covered by the BITS grant.
Request for Proposals and Selection of Consulants
MPT and BITS will invite firms to submit technical and financial
proposals for consulting services for the Scope of Work outlined above.  The
consultants should propose in more detail the scope and manner in which they plan
to assist the tariffs study team.  The selection of the consulting firm will
follow BITS procedures, and will be done by MPT with the assistance of the World
Bank. The quality of the technical proposal, including the qualifications of the
individual consultants that will participate in the work, will be the prime
factor in the selection of the consulting firm. The financial proposal will be
reviewed during contract negotiation for determining the final contract price.
The costs of preparing the proposal or contract negotiation, including any visits
to China for familiarization with conditions in the country or discussions with
MPT prior to submission of proposal or contract negotiation are not reimbursaLble.



7 5                         ANNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 5
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICA TIONS PROJECT
LONG DISTANCE INVESTMENT COMPONENT
1.          The two long-distance routes included in the project will include two
autonomous regions, eight provinces and the municipality of Beijing and are
designed to (a) meet a high traffic demand; (b) improve the quality of existing
transmission links; (c) digitalize the transmission network; and (d) provide the
medium for diversity of future services.
2.          The eastern ranges of the cable routes link some of the most
developed cities in China and the nation's capital with central and western
regions rich in natural resources and agriculture but demanding better
infrastructure, including modern telecommunications means, to achieve further
development.
3.          LD Traffic.  :n spite of an overloaded long distance network,  the
growth of toll traffic shows very high rates in the regions along the cable
routes:
Million Calls             Average
_______________________-------   Growth
Region           1990        1991          1992   p.a. (%)
Beijing          36.24       58.76       100.98      66.9
Fujian          46.1:        69.01       117.64      59.7
Gansu            11.45       Z4.62        22.70       40.8
Guiznou           7.05        9 36        12.44       32.8
Hebei            43.05       68.96       124.05       69.8
Hunan           26.30        34.50        56.92       47.1
I. Mongolia     12.58        17.12        26.15      44.2
Jiangxi          19.09       28.53        48.32       59.1
Ningxia           3.44        4.49         6.71       39.7
Sichuan         34.63        50.57        88.16       9. 6
Zhejiang        80.01       117.60       184.59       51.9
The national growth rate in the period 1989-91 was 42.4%
4.           Traffic Forecast. To determine the capacity of the two proposed routes,
MPT prepared detailed traffic forecasts based on the following considerations:
(a) the traffic growth during recent vears: (b) the relationship between growth
in the national economy and growth in LD traffic and local traffic; (c) different
growth rates for different periods, according to the structure and development
of the LD network; and (d) the traffic to be shared with existing cable and
microwave links.  The total LD traffic for each province along the cable routes
was forecast first; then the growth rate at each of the switching centers higher



. 76 -                        ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 5
than C3 level was determined, taking into account the proportion of the interpro-
vincial traffic with respect to the total traffic in each province.  The traffic
demand was estimated for three periods (not coincident since the feasibility
studies for each route were prepared by a different Design Institute):
Beijing-Lanzhou (B-L):             1991-2000,  2001-2010,  :011-2015
Fuzhou/Hangzhou-chengdu (F/H-C): 1992-1998,  1999-2007,  '008-2012
An exponential model was used for the traffic forecast:
Y  - Y0 (1 + k
in which:
Y:    outgoing traffic in the forecast year;
Y0:   outgoing traffic in the base year;
k:    weighted traffic growth rate;
t:    number of years.
The rate k is weighted with factors that take into consideration the
traffic in the five previous years, the national traffic growth rate forecasted
for the period t, and the growth of the GNP.
5.          Circuit Capaciv.  on the basis of a traffic matrix for the forecast
year, the required number of switching and transmission circuits is calculated
according to the network structure and following the relevant calculation method
recommended  by  the  CCI$T.    When  calculating  the  transmission  circuits.
consideration has been given to additional (65k) circuits for non-telephone
services  (rental circuits, order wire services, etc.).  The systems will be
divided into first-class trunk systems (linking C1 centers to C2 centers and C2
to C2) and second-class systems (C2-C3, C3-C3, C3-C4, and C4-C4). By taking into
account in the pro3ect both interprovincial and intraprovincial requirements
along the fiber optic cable routes, considerable savings will be obtained in the
construction of the LD network.
6.          QUality nsprovement.  -he large capacity of fiber optic svstems and
their inherent good transmission quality and high reliability will facilitate to
meet the transmission requirements of different digital services such as direct
toll dialling, data, image and computer communications, and will be the
foundation for the Integrated Service Digital Network (ISDN).
7.          Dgtaiiznion. Telecommunications in China are in a transition period
towards the digitalization of the networks.   Although there has been some
development of digital microwave systems in the past seven years, the major
telecommunications links along the proposed routes are analog overhead lines and
coaxial cables that cannot match the Stored Program Controlled (SPC) switching
facilities installed in transit centers. The fiber optic transmission systems
will be connected directly to those SPC exchanges, avoiding the use of expensive
Digital/Analog (D/A) converter equipment.
S.          Speficaif ons.   The design lifetime of the optical cables in the
project is 20 years. The cables will be put into operation in 1995 (Annex 5.3),
using 140 Mbit/s transmission systems which conform to the digital hierarchy
based on a 2,048 Mbit/s rate, and will work at the wavelength of 1310 nm. After



- 77 -                         ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 5
1998, the capacity could be expanded to meet the traffic demand using either
additional 140 Mbit/s systems or 565 Mbit/s systems on spare fibers. The cables
will have 24 or 30 fibers in different sections depending on the traffic demand
on each of these sections. There will be no copper wires inside the cable core,
as the supervision and order wire functions are fulfilled through an optic path
and the repeater stations will have local power supply.   In general,  CCITT
recommendations will be followed for specifying the systems.
9.          Instalation and Rlated Construcnon Projects. Installation of the cables and
transmission systems will be carried out by the China National Telecommunications
Construction Company, which has accumulated considerable experience in similar
projects.   The local P&T construction companies  in the provinces will be
responsible for the works associated to the two cable projects: expansion of the
local and LD switching systems, construction or reconstruction of station
buildings, installation of air conditioning equipment, expansion of power supply
facilities, and construction of ducts. Many of the ancillary works have already
started and MPT expects to conclude them on time for the installation of cables
and transmission equipment.
1.0.        Mainenance Organizaion.  Mainrenance activities will combine local
maintenance and centralized functions and resources (technical staff, vehicles,
tools, instruments, etc.) . Sections for maintenance of the cable routes will be
as far as possible arranged to coincide with the established administrative
regions. These sections would be established every 150 km to 200 km (or longer
in Inner Mongolia and Ningxia Autonomous Regions), with 10 workers assigned to
each. A patrol worker will be stationed every 25-30 km. Present maintenance
standards in China require 12 employees assigned to terminal and branching
stations, 10 to regional centers or major cities, 6 to stations in smaller
cities, and 2 to repeater stations in small cities.
11.         Training.  Since the electronic equipment for the project involves
advanced telecommunications technologies, adequate training, domestic and abroad,
will be organized.   Specific requirements will be included in the bidding
documents for procurement of eauipment.



People's Republic i China
TELECOMMUNIFCA11ONS PltOJECT
Iltlerprtovinicial Fiber Optic Cable Routes
(Eigth Five-Yeat lan: 1991-95)
Length         No. of          140 Mbiu/s Total lnvesument                                  Consiruction
Protect                           (km)         Fibers            Sysmems (US$ Million) (a)    Fund Source               Stans          Ends
I Beijing-Wuhan-Guangzhou                            2.7)0             30          3+1. 1+11 I           lOS 7     ADB                        1993          1995
2 Beying Wuhan Guangabou (Optn)                       3.023            12                 5+1             43 6     MPT                        1992          1993
3 Beijing-Tianjin Shenyang-Chanebun-Ilatbin          3.089      30.20.14                4 + I            39 5     Japanese Loan              1993          1994
j, 4  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        $b%             2.03~~~~4  1..1          K651()Wt4~k                                                     915
S Belling-Trnjin-Nanjlng                              1.484            24           6+1 7+ 1              43 0     MPT                        1992          1993
6 Beijing-Chengde-Fuain faicheng Qiqihar              1.622      16.14.10                 2 + 1           30 2     Japanese l oan             1993          1995
7 Beljin*-Taiyuan-Xian                                13723      24.18512           3 i 1. 5  1           59 3     ADO                        1991          1995
III~ 19*0                                       1: 'Its     t7z                   t, i:.: ). i; :, Aj
9 Chentdu-KumntI                                      1,100                               1+1              3.0     MPt                        1992          1993
10 Cbengdu-Xian                                        1.090            It                4+1              32 4     Australian Loan            1992          1994
11 Chongqing-Wuhan                                     1.400                             10+1              54.2     MPT                        1995          1996
12 Fuzhou-Shanghai                                     1.241           24                 6+1              34.5     MPt                        1991          1993
13 Fuaho-Guangahou /Sherezhen                          1,383           24                 7+1              396      MPt                        1991          193
14 Guangahou-lfikou                                    900                               2+ 1              2 5     MPt                        2992          1993
13 tGuangzhou-Naming                                    700                               2+1               1 9     MPT                        1992          1993
16 Kunming-Nanning                                     1.200                         4+1. 5+1              364      MPt                        2995          1996
17 Lantihou-Wuluui                                    2.270          14-8            4+1. 5+ 1              2 5       . Britkain Loam          1993          295
f3 Latzho-Xian                                          335          11-20           5+1. 6+1              333      0. Bfitain Loan            1991           M99S
19 Nanjilng-Shangtiai                                   400            24                 5+1               1.5     MPT                        1991          1992
20 XIan-Zhengzhou                                       570             24                 4+1              14.5     Australian Loan           2992          2994
21 Xuzhou-Zhengzhou                                     400                                3+1              10.9     MPt                       1994          1M5
22 China Japan                                         1 1.30            4    1 +1 (565 Mbitts)            27 0      MP1                       1993          1994
Tool:        35.115                              Tou:l          1.025 3
(a) Exchange Rate: USI .00 - Yual 5 5
(b) A 243-tm cable betwees BeijIng sand Zhangjiakou will be insulled under a different project.
Between Hubehote and Be. -t exlalUst4-k tcable (12 fben) wil ci Il          20t4 route.
(c) A 220-tm cable (14 fiben) wIN be installed by Zhejang Prvince mnder a differemtt projec lo tuqlete the 4.461-km route.                                                       1
(d) The World Bank rmaces only a potdon of the I   tOst.                                                                                                                     A
Source: MPT - Mach 1993                                                                                                                                                       nLi
*a _ait ta     3



LEGEND
Existing
New
I L;                   '               X World Bank loan
people's Republic of China
Inter-Provincial Optical Fibre Cable Proects to bew                                                                                                              
Consicted during the Eighth Five-Year Plan 
\   _                /-t h            o l $ )            <   es<Wahou}}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edlw388






- 81 -                       ANNEX 3.4
Page I of 3
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Fiber Optic Cable from Beijing to Lanzhou
1.          This route starts in Beijing and goes through Zhangjiakou and
Zhangbei in Hebei province; Jining, Huhehaot, Baotou, Linhe and Wuhai in Inner
Mongolia; and Shizuishan, Yinchuan and Wuzhong in Ningxia, to Baiyin and Lanzhou
in Gansu. The 2,084-km route includes:
121 km in Beijing municipality,
261 km in Hebei province,
943 km in Inner Mongolia,
515 km in Ningxia autonomous region, and
244 km in Gansu province.
and links the nation's capital with three provincial capitals, eight major cities
and regional centers, and 23 small cities through a total of 46 stations.
2.          The route crosses 37t of flat land (Beijing, the Inner Mongolia
Plateau, the Yellow River Plateau and the Hetao Plain), 45% of hilly land, and
8t of mountain area (Badalin Mountain, in the East). It also crosses the Yellow
River (seven times: 6 by hanging cable on bridges and once under water in
Jingyuan County) and other big rivers (Huanghe, Dawukouhe, Houhe, etc.). Rivers
wider than 150 m (most of them seasonal) are crossed 44 times.
3.          The cable will mainly follow a developed highway network, including
highway No. 110 in the Beijing-Huhehaot-Yinchuan section, and highway no. 109 in
the Yinchuan-Zhongning and Pingchuan-Lanzhou sections.
4.           Due to the mountainous terrain west and north of Beijing, the cable
to Zhangjiakou (243 km) will share ducts already constructed for several coaxial
cables. This cable section will be installed under an ADB-funded project for a
cable linking Beijing, Taiyuan and Xian. The terminal station in Beijing will
be located in the Long Distance Telephone Building to facilitate connection to
the toll exchange center. Between Huhehaote and Baotou (148 km), the existing
12-fiber cable will be used for the initial operating period (until 1998).
5.           The estimated total cost of this cable system is US$63.7 million
equivalent (including contingencies), of which US$27.6 million (or 44%) is
proposed to be financed by the Bank loan. Equipment and materials that will be
procured for the system are summarized in Annex 5.2.



People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
BEUING-LANZHOU FIBER OPTIC CABLE SYSTEM
Project Costs
(Million Yuan)
1992                     1993          1          1994                     1995                     Total
Conponents             Local Foreign I  Total   Local I Formign I  Total   LocalI Forign I  Total|  Local| Forign I  Total   Local  Foreign I  Total
A. CABLES
1. Fiber Optic Cables          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    64.3    64.3      0.0      7.0     7.0     0.0    71.3    71.3
2. Cable Ducts                 0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     7.8      0.0     7.3     0.0      0.0     0.0      7.8     0.0     7.8
3. Civil Works                 0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    11.5      0.0    11.5     0.0      0.0     0.0    11.5      0.0    11.5
4. Others                      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     5.3      0.0     5.8     2.5      0.0     2.5      8.3     0.0     8.3
Subtotal:    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    25.1    64.3    39.4       2.5     7.0      9.5    27.6    71.3    98.9
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Transmission Equiprment     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    53.3    53.3      0.0      5.9     5.9     0.0    59.2    59.2
2. Power Plant and A/C         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     6.5      0.0     6.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     6.5      0.0     6.5
3. Tools and Instrunments      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      3.5     3.5     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      3.5     3.5
4. Spare Parts                 00      00       0.0     00       00      00      0.0      5.3     5.3     0.0      06      06       00      5.9     5.9
Subtotal:    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      6.5    62.1    68.6      0.0     6.5      6.5     6.5    68.6    75.1
C. SERVICES                                                                                                                                                           oo
I. Survey/Design               0.7     0.0     0.7      1.3     0.0      1.3     1.3     0.0      1.3     0.0      0.0     0.0     3.3      0.0     3.3
2. Cable Installation          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    58.0      0.0    58.0    24.9      0.0    24.9    82.9      0.0    82.9
3. Equipment Installation      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     3.3      0.0     3.3    12.4      0.0    12.4    20.7      0.0    20.7
4. Staff Training:
-Local                      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.2     0.0      0.2     0.3      0.0     0.3     0.5      0.0     0.5
-Abroad                     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      1.3     1.S     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      1.3     1.8
5. Others                      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    12.4      0.0    12.4    12.4      0.0    12.4    24.9      0.0    24.9
Subtotal:    0.7      0.0     0.7      1.3     0.0     1.3    80.3      1.S    32.1    50.1      0.0    50.1   132.3       1.8   134.2
BaseCostof Project             0.7     0.0      0.7     1.3     0.0      1.3   111.9   123.2   240.1    52.6    13.5    66.1   166.4   141.8   308.2
D. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical (a)                0.1     0.0     0.1      0.2     0.0      0.2    16.3     6.4    23.2      7.9      0.7     3.6    25.0      7.1    32 0
2. Price (b)                   0.0     0.0      0.0     0.2     0.0      0.2    24.7    25.9    50.6    15.9       3.7    19.7    40.8    29.6        t
Subtotal:    0.1      0.0     0.1      0.4     0.0     0.4    41.5    32.3    73.8    23.8       4.4    23.2    65.3    36.7   aui.S
TOTALPROJECTCOST                 0.8     0.0      0.8     1.7     0.0      1.7   153.4   160.5   313.9    76.4    13.0    94.3   232.2   173.5   410.7
(a) Local Costs: 15% Forrign Costs: 5%
(b) Bank Update as of July 1993: 10.9% in 1993. 7.5% in 1994. And 6.0% thereafter.
Source: MPT -March 1993
Sc a.s4 t*~n U MB 2 U



People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
BEIUING-LANZHOU FIBER OPTIC CABLE SYSTEM
Project Costs
(Million US Dollars)
1992                       1993           |           1994                       1995                       Total
Components              Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Tol    Local I Foreign I   Total I  Local  Formign I   Total   Loal I Foreign    Total
A. CABLES
1. Fiber Optic Cables            0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0     11.7     11.7      0.0      1.3      1.3      0.0    13.0      13.0
2. Cable Ducts                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      00       1.4      0.0      1.4      0.0      0.0      0.0       1.4     0.0       1.4
3. Civil Works                   0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      2.1      0.0      2.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.1      0.0      2.1
4. Others                        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.1      0.0      1.1      0.5      0.0      0.5       1.5      0.0      1.5
Subtotal:     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      4.6     11.7     16.3      0.5      1.3       1.7     5.0    13.0       18.0
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Tnnsmission Equipment         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      9.7      9.7      0.0      1.1      1.1      0.0    10.8      10.8
2. Power Plant and A/C            0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      1.2      0.0      1.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.2      0.0       1.2
3. Tools and Instruments         0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6      0.6      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6      0.6
4. Spare Parts                   0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      1.0      1.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0       1.1      1.1             co
Subtotal:     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.2    11.3    12.5        0.0      1.2       1.2     1.2    12.5      13 7
C. SERVICES'
1. Survey/Design                 0.1      0.0      0.1      0.2      0.0      0.2       0.2      0.0      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6      0.0      0.6
2. Cable Installation            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    10.5       0.0    10.5       4.5      0.0      4.5    15.1       0.0    15.1
3. Equipment Installation        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      1.5      0.0      1.5      2.3      0.0      2.3      3.8      0.0       3.8
4. Staff Training:
-Local                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.1
-Abroad                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.3      0.3      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.3      0.3
5. Others                        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      2.3      0.0      2.3      2.3      0.Q      2.3      4.5      0.0      4.5
Subtotal:     0.1      0.0       0.1     0.2       0.0      0.2     14.6      0.3     14.9      9.1      0.0      9.1    24.1       0.3    24.4
Base Cost of Project             0.1      0.0      0.1      0.2       0.0      0.2    20.3    23.3    43.7         9.6      2.5    12.0    30.3    25.8    56.0
D. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical (a)                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      3.1      1.2      4.2      1.4      0.1      1.6      4.5      1.3      5.8
2. Price (b)                     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.6      0.6      1.2      0.5      0.1      0.7       1.1     0.7       1.9
Subtotal:     0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      3.6      1.8      5.4      2.0      0.3      2.2      5.7      2.0      7.7
TOTAL PROJECTCOST                  0.1      0.0      0.1      0.3      0.0       0.3    24.0    25.1    49.1        11.5      2.7    14.2    35.9    27.8    63.7
(a) Local Costs: 15%  Foreign Costs: 5%
(b) Bank update as of July 1993: 1.3% in 1993, 1.2% in 1994, 2.4% in 1995.
Exchange rate for base cost: US$1.00 = Yuan 5.5                                                                                                                                t
Source: MPT - March 1993
t.A4 4A
DO MHiA U>" A  *DOB_  tlS  '



I



- 85 -                            ANNEX 3.5
Page I of 3
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Fiber Optic Cable from Fuzhou/Hangzhou to Chengdu
1.          The Fuzhou/Hangzhou-Chengdu fiber optic cable system, with a total
length of 4,661 km, extends across six provinces, from the Southwest to the
Central-South of the country:
519 km in Fujian,
397 km in Zhejiang,
994 km in Jiangxi,
854 km in Hunan,
1,009 km in Guizhou, and
688 km in Sichuan.
This will be the longest trunk route from East to West in China and will collect
traffic from many of the national trunk routes. It has two branches in the East,
from Fuzhou and Hangzhou to Nanchang, and then continues to Chengdu.   From
Hangzhou to Jinhua (220 km), the system will use a cable which will be laid early
by the Zhejiang province to meet intra-province requirements.
2.          The capitals along the route are among the most developed of the
country, but the existing telecommunications facilities cannot cope with the
rapid economic growth of the provinces and, in fact, become a restrictive factor
to further development. Fuzhou (in Fujian) and Hangzhou (Zhejiang) are among the
first group of coastal open cities, and Chongqing was one of the first open
cities on the Yangtze River.
3.          The route traverses mountainous areas in Fujian, Hunan, Guizhou and
Sichuan; hills alternating with plains in Zhejiang; the Sichuan Basin; and the
Chengdu Plain. About 401 of the areas along the route are mountain regions, 50%
hills, and 10% plains. More than 40 rivers are crossed, such as the Minjiang,
the Ganjiang, the Xiangjiang,- the Changjiang (Yangtze), and the Tuojiang. Most
of the route will go along highways, and short sections along county roads or
town roads.
4.           The estimated total cost of this cable system is US$205.6 million
equivalent  (including contingencies),  of which US$98.3 million  (or 48%)  is
proposed to be financed by the Bank loan.  Equipment and materials that will be
procured for the system are summarized in Annex 5.2.



People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
FUZHOU/IANGZHOU-CHENGDU FIBER OPTC CABLE SYSTEM
Pmjcxt Costs
(Million Yuan)
1992                    1993        T            1994                     1995                    Total
Conponents            Local  Foreign I  Totall  Local  Foreign i  Total   Local i Foreign i  Total I  Local i Forei n i  Toul|  Local I Foreign I  Total
A. CABLES
1. Fiber Optic Cables         0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0   189.0   189.0      0.0    21.0    21.0      0.0   210.0   210.0
2. Cable Ducts                0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    40.1      0.0    40.1     0.0      0.0     0.0    40.1     0.0    40.1
3. Civil Works                0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    27.5      0.0    27.5     0.0      0.0     0.0    27.5     0.0    27.5
4. Others                     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    15.8      0.0    15.8     6.8      0.0     6.8    22.6     0.0    22.6
Subtotal:    0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    83.4   189.0   272.4      6.8    21.0    27.8    90.2   210.0   300.2
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Transmission Equipment     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0   230.2   230.2     0.0    25.6    25.6      0.0   255.8   255.8
2. Power Plant and A/C        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      7.1     0.0     7.1     0.0      0.0     0.0     7.1     0.0      7.1
3. Tools and lnstruments      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     5.0     5.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     5.0      5.0
4. Spare Parts                0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0    23.0    23.0     0.0      2.6     2.6     0.0    25.6    25.6          OD
Subtotal:    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      7.1   258.2   265.3     0.0    28.2    28.2      7.1   286.4   293.4          o
C. SERVICES                                                                                                                                                      I
I. Survey/Design              2.3     0.0     2.3      4.5     0.0     4.5     4.5      0.0     4.5     0.0     0.0      0.0    11.3     0.0    11.3
2. Cable Installation         0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   161.1      0.0   161.1    69.1      0.0    69.1   230.2     0.0   230.2
3. Equipment Installation     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    35.8      0.0    35.8    53.7      0.0    53.7    89.5     0.0    89.5
4. Staff Training:
-Local                     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.6     0.0     0.6     0.5      0.0     0.5     1.1     0.0      1.1
Abroad                    0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      4.6     4.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     4.6     4.6
5. Others                     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    33.9      0.0    33.9    33.9             33.9    67.7     0.0    67.7
Subtotal:    2.3     0.0      2.3     4.5     0.0     4.5   235.9      4.6   240.5   157.1      0.0   157.1   399.7     4.6  404.4
Base Cost of Prject           2.3     0.0      2.3     4.5     0.0     4.5   326.3   451.9   778.2   163.9    49.2   213.1   497.0   501.0   998.0
D. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical (a)               0.3     0.0     0.3      0.7     0.0     0.7    48.9    22.6    71.5    24.6      2.5    27.0    74.5    25.1    99.6
2. Price (b)                  0.0     0.0     0.0      0.6     0.0     0.6    72.1    91.2   163.3    49.7       2.6    52.3   122.4    93.7   216.1
Subtotal:    0.3     0.0     0.3      1.2     0.0     1.2   121.1   113.8   234.8    74.3       5.0    79.3   196.9   118.8   315.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST              2.6     0.0     2.6      5.8     0.0     5.8   447.3   565.6  1,013.0   238.2    54.2   292.4   693.9   619.8  1,313.7
(a) Local Costs: 15% Foreign Costs: 5%
(b) Bank Update as of July 1993: 10.9% in 1993, 7.5% in 1994. and 6.0% thereafter.
Source: MPT - March 1993
S A 4A4t LDcT_ Xth xa 



Peoplc's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
FUZIIOU/IiANGZIIOU-CIIENGDU FIBER OPTIC CABLE SYSTEM
Project Costs
(Million US Dollars)
1992                      1993           1           1994                       1995                      Total
Components              Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total   Local Foreign    Total    Local Foreign    Total   Local Forecin    Total
A. CABLES
1. Fiber Optic Cables           (Il      0.0      0.0      U.0      0.0      0 0      0.0    34.4    34.4       00       3.8      3.8      0.0    38.2    38.2
2. Cable Ducts                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      7.3      0.0      7.3      0.0      0.0      0.0     7.3      0.0      7.3
3. Civil Works                  0.0      0.0      00       00       0.0      0.0      5.0      0.0      5.n      0.0      0.0      0.0      5.0     0.0      5 0
4. Others                       0.0      0 0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.9      0.0      2.9      1.2      0.0      1.2     4 1      0.0      4.1
Subtotal:     0.0      0.0      00       0.0      0.0      0.0    15.2    34.4    49.5         1.2     3.8      5.0    16.4    38.2   _54.6
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Transmission Equipment       0 0      0 0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    41.9     41.9      0.0      4.7      4.7      0 0     46.5    46.5
2. Power Plant and A/C          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.3      0.0      1.3      0.0      0.0     0.0       1 3     0.0      1.3
3. Tools and Instruments        0.0      0.0      0 0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.9      0.9      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.9      0.9
4. Spare Panrs.                 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      4.2      4.2      0.0      0.5      0.5      0.0     4.7      4.7
Subtotal:     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.3    46.9    48.2       0.0      5.1      5.1      1.3    52.3    53.4
C. SERVICES
I. Survey/Design                0.4      00       0.4      0.8      0.0      0.8      0.8      0.0     0.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      2.1      0.0      2 1
2. Cable Installation           0.0      00       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    29.3       0.0    29.3      12.6     0.0      12.6    41.8      00      41.8
3. Equipment Installation       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      6.5      0.0      6.5      9.8      0.0      9.8    16.3      0.0    16.3
4. Staff Training:
Local                       0 0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0 0      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.1      0.2      0.0      0.2
Abroad                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.8      0.8      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.8      0 8
5. Others                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      6.2      0.0      6.2      6.2      0.0     6.2    12.3       0.0    12.3
Subtotal:     0.4    00        0.4      0.8      0.0      0.8    42.9       0.8    43.7    28.6       0.0    28.6    72.7        0.8    73.5
BaseCOstofPPojCCt               0.4      0.0      0.4      0.8      0.0      0.8    59.3    82.2   141.5    29.8          8.9    38.7    90.4    91.1    181.5
D. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical (a)                 0.1      00       0.1      0.1      00       0.1      8.9     4.1      13.0      4.5     0.4      4.9     13.6      4.6    18.1
2. Price (b)                    0.0      0.0      _.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      1.7      2.2_  3.9         1.7      0.5     2.2       3.4     2.6      61
Sublotal:     0.3      0.0n     °!    - 0.        0                10.6      6.3    16.9      6.2      0.9      7.1      37.0     7.2    24.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                0.5      0.0      0 5      1.0      0.0      1.0    69.9    88.4   158 4       36.0      9.9    45.8   107.3    98.3   205.6
(a) Local Costs: 15%  Foreign Costs: 5%
(b) Bank update as of July 1993: 1.3% in 1993. 1.2% in 1994, 2.4% in 1995.
Exchange rate for base cost: US$I.00 = Yuan 5.5
Source: MPT - March 1993
DO ComA . LOCOOT B  *a ,






- 89 -                           ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 7
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
1.          Heilong3iang province is in the most northeasterly part of China,
bordering eastern Rugsia (with 3,500 km of common border), Inner Mongolia, and
Jilin Province. Its capital, Harbin, is some 1,100 km NE of Beijing.
2.          The province has an area of 454,000 sq km and a population of
36,430,000 people (densitv of 80 people/sq km) in 1992, projected to grow to over
39,700,000 people by the year _000.   _t is divided into 14 districts and
subdivided into 67 counties - 15 of which are near ma7or cities and administered
as part of the district.  Three of the municipalities and 14 of the counties
(40%of the area, 20% of the population) are open to foreign investment.
3.          The  main  economic  activities  are  in  agriculture  and  natural
resources:   (a) the main base for grain in China:  (b) large oil and coal
deposits; (e) the gold deposit is second largest in China; (d) graphite; and
(e) wood.     Mechanical  manufacturing,   chemicals,   electronics,   textiles,
pharmaceuticals, and paper mills play a major role in the four industrial cities
of Harbin, Qigihar, Mudanl%ang, and Jiamusi.
4.          The  Heilong]iang  P&T  administration  is  organized  around  89
operational units: (a) telecommunications in 14 districts, 67 counties, and
Jianshanjiang (agricultural center SW of Suibin); (b) a microwave bureau and a
transmission  bureau;  fz)  a rural  telecommunications  unit;  ;d)  a post and
:elecommunications eauipment company; and (e) a postal unit, a post philately
unit, and a post and telecommunications savings comnanv.  Additionally, there are
Z schools,  2 factories,  an installation companv,  a researcn  institute,  a
designing institute, and a nospital.
S.          The telephone network in 1992 was comprised of 150 local exchanges
with 563,407 urban lines and 107,693 rural lines, resulting in a telephone
density of 1.02 per hundred population; and 150 long distance exchanges with
22,200 trunk circuit terminations (about 26% manual operation).  The 8th Five
Year Plan (1991-1995) provides for growth of 1,225,000 urban lines, 126,000 rural
1ines and over 30,000 long distance circuits. By the end of the 9th Five Year
Plan (2000), the local excnange network is expected to exceed 5,400,000 lines for
a telephone density approaching 10.5% with 60,000 toll circuits.



ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 7
6           Working lines shows a major increase of 63% annually in the years
1991 to 1994, with an ambitious growth target of 27% annually for the remainder
of the decade. As supply of telephone services increases in the 1990s, the list
of waiting applicants is expected to grow from about St to over 30% of existing
subscribers by 1994, before declining towards 5% again (this decrease in percent
of waiting applicants is not fully supported by the Bank due to a potentially
large, but unidentified, unmet demand not quantified by current registration
methods) indicating a strong market for telephone services and a major investment
and construction program still to be addressed.
7.          The Bank loan would provide for 160,000 lines of main telephone
network expansion in six offices in the three cities of Jamusi, Mudanjiang, and
Qiqihar. This is approximately 8.3 percent of the total 1993 - 1997 expansion
of 1.937,000 urban network lines in the province (2,169,000 local exchange lines
including rural development)
8.          Parallel  investments  in the  1993-1997 period in long distance
circuits and exchanges, interexchange facilities, access network structures,
buildings, and ancillary equipment and works, is expected to cost USS2,377
million equivalent of which the Bank investment project is USS76.5 million
equivalent and the loan would be for US$28.2 million (including contingencies)
or 1.2 t of the total provincial program costs.



Pcople's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
llealonggiang Province Indicalon
Actual                                         Tacts
Indicaiors                   1988    1989      1990    1991    1992           1993    1994    1995       1996     1997
I OCAI. TELEPhIONE EXCHANGES
Installcd Line Capacily ('0U0)               Wi4n 7   365 7    449 1   47K I   671 1         982 0  1.420 U  1.800 0  2,260.0  2.84-0 0
Wtorking lines ('000)                       201 4    232 7    287 1   360 6    472 2         770 0  1.150.0  1,4900  1,9000  2.393 0
Ex01.1itc Filll%)                            65 7     63 6     639      75 4     70 4         78 4     e10      32.3     84 1     84 3
l ies widj DDDD('11K)                         11 1    13 1     337      437    I480          2200    3020    3800    4100    8000
Telephonc Densihy (%j Total                  0 59     0 68     0 82      1 02     1.30        2 09     2.82     3 62     4 52     5 61
Telephone Density (%) - Urban Ne,w*oLk 4'     1 25     1 30     1 62    2 00     2 58         4 26     641      8 22    10 28    12 74
D)OMESTIC L.D EXCHIANGES
Number of EtchAnges:
-Manual                                    810      81 0     810       10      81 U         81 U     84.0    840       840      840
Automatic:                                20 0     33 0     42 0     52 0     69 0         59 0     84.0    84.0    34.0    84.0
-Analog                                  190      32 0     410      510      550          370
Digiul                                   10       10       1 0      10      14 0         220     84 1    84 0      84 0     84 04
Trunlk Circuii Tcminagion Capacify ('(KUI)     7 0      3 4     9 2      10 4    22 0         38.3    63 0      75.6    30.0    90 0
lunctin Circuit Terninaiun Capacity ('00(il    6 9     9.9      9 3      10 9    23 9         40 1     65 6     35.6    36 0    100 0
QUAV1.ITY OF SE'RVICIU
Call Completion Rae (X)
-Local Calls                               61 2     60 1     55.2    58 3      61.9         58 5     55       58.7     58 7     60 0
-ODCalls:                                 433      446      456      43.I    41 1          430      43.5     43       43.9     490
- Operntir Caintrollcd                   85 5     32 2     86.3    35 6      31.3         35.3    85.3      35t    35.9    36 0
-DDD                                     22 7     14 4     17.2    30.1      23 0         30 2     30.3    30.3    30.3    30 3
IDD                                     657      39 4     42.3     41.3    50.0          51 0     52 0    53.0    54 0       55.0
PRODIICT'IVrTf (0)
StafII/I.00 Working Local Lines                72       69       57       47       38           24       15       13       10        8
FINANCIAL. ()
Teleph. Revenue/Working Line (Yuan)           911      938    1.081    1,174    1.235        1.160    1,074    1.068    1.130    1,201
Operating CosaiWorking Line (Yuan)            735      772      835      983    1,165        1,255    1,567    4,286    1.306    1,327
(0) Local Ncework (cxcluding nral)
Source: hledongii ng PTA - July 1993                                                                                                                           ftC
m OmiAf DM    Nj



LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK HEILONGJANG PROVINCE
(IN tHOUSANDS)                             Tephone Lines Supply & Demand                                             NTOUSANDS
6.000 -                                                                                                                     450
j    - 400
WAITING APPlICANTS GROWING
FROM S TO 30 % OF EXISTING .p I                INSTALLED
SUOSCRISERS                                LINE     |
j   350
4.500*
j                           - ~~~~~~~~~300
250
3,000/                                                                                                  /
-9019519019520 200
~~~/                   -~~~~~~150
1.500 -                                                                  I/
-100
000                                    ~~~~~~~50
1980                      1985                       1990                      1995                       2000
EXPRESSED
DEMAND                                                                                                           E1W544og6



LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK HEILONGJANG PROVINCE
Telephone Lines Supply to Subscribers
5500
ANNUAL GROVVTH
RATE
ACTUAL                  PROJECTION
4500-
3000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~991 -1994163-,/
2500  -                                  __    _ 
z                                                                                                                                                              '.0
Working Lines
1500
19800 196718%)
< . !98t -~~ 1991 (23%) 
100 -                                                                  i_                                     i               
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
TELEPHONE                                                                                                                  1.
DENSONE  032                           042                        082                         362                         105
EKA5WsA40 tI



People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
l,OCAL TELEPIIONE NETWORK - IIEII.ONGJIANG PROVINCE
Investma  Pognmm
(Million Yuan)
1991         |         1994                    1995                    1996                    1997                     Total
ComponetS               LocallFom!i n   Totall Local Ford n   Total  Local Fomisn   Total   Local Forein |  Totall LocalF          n   Tol              Forin       Totl
ONGOING PROGRAM                  481 5 1.321 9 1,803 4 2.115 8   528 9 2,644 7 1.680 5   367 0 2.047 5 1.874 6   847 7 2.722 2 2.209 9 1.223 6 3.433 5   ,362 3  4,289 1 12.651 3
FRD PROIECT
1. Local Teleph Litdhanges       U 11    Ut U      tI    t 11l    uil    0U0     00   124 5   124 5      t ll   13 8    1318    0       t ll o   0        U tl   138 3    138 3
2.OutsidePlant                   00      00      00      00      00      00    600       00    e0    600         00    60.0   400        00    400      160I0      00    1600
3. uncnonNermork                 00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00    270       00    270       00      00      00      270       00       270
4.PowerSSupplyandA/C             00      00      00      00      00      00      60      00      6.0     90      00      90      00      00      00      15U       00       Is0
S TestEquip.and Others           00      000     00      011    00       00      00      00      0       32      00      32      00      00      00       3.2      00        32
6. Buidings                      o00     00      00      00      00      00    129       00    12.9      60      00      60      00      00      00      18.9      00       189
7. Training:
-Local                       o0 u       t     00u        till    tIll    00   00      00      00 0o0    (o0           00      00   0      0  0o 0o0    0n0 
-Abrad                        00      000     00  _   0       00      00      0.0     1.9    1.9    0.0   !9         1.9    0.0    00 0°0             0°0      3.9       3.9
BaseCosofPmject                  0000            00_00           00      0.0   73.9   1264   205.3  105.2    153   121.0   40.0          0.0   40.0    224 1_  142.2    3663
Coningencies
l.Pbyscala (a)                   Ot      uu 0     tl    t11i      4ii   0u0      79      63    142    105        08    11.3     40      00      40       224       7 1     29'5
2. Price(b)                      0 0     00      00      00      00      0.0   22.9   35.0   57.9   39 3         56    44.9    13.5      00    135       3 0.7    406    121 3
Subtutal:                      00      00      00      00      00      00    308    41.3   72.1    493        6.4   56.2   22.5       0.0   225       103.1     47.7    1508
TotaJ Pwjcj  Cost                00      UU0     00       I      U tll    0.(1  109.7   167.8  277.4   1550    22 2   177 2    62.5      00    62.5    327.2    1899    517 1
TOTAL PROGRAM COST               481 5 1.3219 1.S034 2,115S8   5289 2.644.7 1,790.2  534.7 2,324.9 2.0296   8698 2,899.4 2,272.4 1,223.6 3.496.0  3.6894   4,4790  13,168.4
(a) Local Costs: 10% Foreign Cosis: 5%
(b) bank Updatc s of July 199J: 10.9% in 1993, 7 5% in 1994. and 6 11% ilicrcjller
Soufce. Heilongjiang PTA - July 1993
so C~ain    pa_CO.T At 5.1119



Peoplc's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECr
locAl.TrELEP1I0NIE NL'WORK - IIlIONGJIANG PROVINCE
Iiivestment ProgrAM
(Million US Dollars)
1993             _       199J4                     1995                      1996                     1997                __    Total
Components                Local Foreign    Total   Local ForeignI  Total   LocalForci n    Totl   LocalFForeig'i n        ol|  Local Formign    Total    Local  Foreign          Toal
ONOOING PROGRAM                      87 5   240 3   327 9   384 7    ou. 2   480 9   305 5    h6 7   372 1   3t1) 8   154 1   495 0   401 8   222 5   624 3   1.52! 4            77') 8   2,3W1  2
IBRD PROJECT
1. Local Tlepli Lxiliiigcs          tIl0 t1  1       (I It    II      II(      0 III   tIj 1   2 226    22ut    11        2 5     2 5      t0l0    t0ll    tIl(        1i      25 2       25 2
2 OutsidePlant                      00       00      00       on      unl      00      10 9     00      10 9    1(19      00      109      73       00      713      291         00       291
3.JunctionlNetwuik                  00       00      00 n      (i       l      0o0      0 0     0o0      00      49       00      4 9       0       0II     00        49         00        49
4.PowerSupplyandAlt                 00       00      00       till       I     0nn   IoI            0    1 1      16      110      16       0   0 n         0o0        27        1n0       27
S.TestEquip.aidOihers               00       00      0 o      fill     0)      0 10   0o0       oll      00      0 6      110     06       0 0      10      00 1      0 o 6      00        06         1
6. Buildings                         0    0       0n  0 on     ll    It I        0      23      n0       23       11      1)       I I       o      00      0o0        34         00       34
7. Training:             'n
-Local                          00(    (II       tIll)    t ill    (II 0     Il             III) 110  liii    till    00il             0 i  ll  (Il     (Il41                (Il      (IlI
Abrioad                           00    00 0°     0      0 °0             0!0      00       04      04       00   0!4         04       0)      0°0      00        0(1       07        07
Base CostotPruiccl o0                        00       00 _   0        0 -o0    0       143 2_30_  3763 19!                29    22.0       7.3     00  _   73        407       259       666
Contingencies
1. Physical (a)                    0n         l       1 1111          (i 11 n l          4      1 1      2 Ii    I 9      11 I    2 I      0 7     til        7      4 1        1 3      5 4
2.Price(b)                          00       00      00       0)       IlU      00      03      12       20       13      t13     20       10       00       10        35        15        50
Subtotal.                         0 0     0 0      0 0     0         l      00  0    2.2      2.4     4 6      3 7     014      4 1      1.7     0 0      1 7       7 6       2 7      10 3
Total Prjec Cost                   (I       nn 1)    1       11 1    411   110    (Ill    166    253   41 9    228       33     261       90)    t0ll      91       483        286      76n)
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                   87 5   240 3   3271   384 7    96 2   480 9   322.I    92 1   414 2   363 6   157 4   521 0   41118   222 5   633 2   1,568 7    808 4   2,377 2
(a) Local COItS.: 111% I;.ucign COSIS 5%
(b) Bank update as of liily 1993 1.3% tn 1993. 1 2% Ini 1994. 2 4'; iii I 45. 1 2 , ill In199. Aud 3 4% i5i 1997
Exchange Rate for base cni: IIS$S 110 = Yuan 5 5
Source: licilongitang PI'A  Inly 199'3
'.4Z
as oHMIAa &_COST U.A 5O16,2






- 97 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 1 of 7
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LIAONING PROVINCE
1.         Liaoning province is in the northeast of China, bordering on North
Korea to the east, Jilin province, and Inner Mongolia, and is at the north end
of the Yellow Sea, on the Bo Sea.  Its capital. Shengyang, is some 650 km NE of
Bei3 ing.
2.          The province has an area of 145,000  sq km and a population of
-9,385,000 people (density of 272 people/sq km) in 1992, pro3ected to grow to
over 40,700,000 people by the year 2000.   It is divided into 14 districts
sundivided into 67 countles. -he coastal cities of Dalien, Jinzhou, and Yinkou
as well as the industrial centers of Anshan, Dan Dong, and Shengyang are in
districts open to foreign investment.
3.          The.main economic activities are in agriculture,  heavy industry,
petroleum processing, machinery, textiles, chemicals, and electric power. The
coastal ports, at the head end of railways and roads to northern China, also
provides for an economic advantage.
4.          The Liaoning P&T administration is organized around 59 operational
units:  ca) telecommunications units in 14 districts and 44 counties and (b) a
postal unit. it also administers a university, a college, a training center, a
construction company, a supply company, 3 factories, a research institute, a
designing institute, a hospital and two recuperation centers, and operates a
hotel and administerS 40,000 apartments for staff housing (the operations and
maintenance of apartments Is included in the PTA financial statements).
5.          The telephone network in 1992 was comprised of 128 local exchanges
with 798,210 urban lines and 208,490 rural lines resulting in a telephone density
of 1.84 lines per hundred population, and 14 long distance exchanges with 32,000
toll circuit terminations (all automatic digital operation) . The 8th Five Year
Plan (1991-1995) provides for growth of 1,500,000 urban lines, 304,000 rural
lines, and over 40,000 long distance circuits. Bv the end of the 9th Five Year
Plan t2000), the local exchange network is expected to exceed 5,300,000 lines for
a telephone density exceeding 8.5s, with 70,000 toll circuits.
6.          Working lines grew at 34% annually in the period 1990 to 1994, and aim
at an ambitious trend of 20 to 28% annually continuing through to the year 2000.
As supply of telepnone services increases beyond 1993, dormant business demand
is expected to appear, :ncreasing waiting applicants on file upwards through 1995
(and possibly bevond, as unidentified, unmet resident demand is recognized) --
creating a healthy demand, and a continuing ma3or investment requirement.



- 98 -                           ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 7
The Bank loan would provide for 170,000 lines of main telephone
network expansion in seven offices in the four cities of Dan Dong, Jinzhou,
Yingkou and Bayuguan (a new port city) . This is approximately 7.9% of the total
1993-1997 expansion of 2,162,000 urban network lines in the province (2,583,000
local exchange lines including rural expansion).
8.         Parallel investments required in the 1993-1997 period in long distance
circuits and exchanges, Interexchange facilities, access network structures,
buildings, and ancillary equipment and works, are expected to cost USS3,156
million equivalent of which the Bank investment project is US$75.2 million
equivalent and the loan would be for USS28.3 million (including contingencies)
or 0.9 t of the total provincial program costs.



Pcople's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Liatning Province InJicators
Actnal                                             Targca
Indicators                   1988     1989     1990    1991      1992         1993    1994    1995       1996     1997
LOCAL TEtLEPIIONE EXCIIANGFS
Installed Line Capaclty ('000)              533 4    601 8    697 11   78H3 3  1.U0 7       1,500 U  2.000 0  2,5W3)  3,030 0  3,59' 0
Working lines ('000)                        328 0    379 9    430 8    502 1    665 7        950 0  1,300.0  1,630 0  2.122.0  2,586 0
ExchangcFillI%)                              61 5     63 1     61 8     642      66.1         633      650      652      700      720
Lines witdi )D)D(u IMIK                       156     707      74 1   2176    1150           5000  1.0000  1.2000  1.5000  2,2000
Teleplione Densiry (%) - Toul                0 86     0 98      1 (9     1 30    1 84         2.10     2.94     3 88     5.30     6 46
Telephone Density (%) - Main Network (11      1 61     1 89     2 16    2 54     3 42         4 89     6 70     8 32    10 85    13 17
DOMISTIC I.D EXCIIANGES
Number ol ExchAnges:
-.Manual                                    8 0       3 0
- Automalic.                                0 0      5.0      10.0    14 0     140          14 0     14.0    15 0      15.0    16 0
- Analog
Digttal                                           5 U     10 0     14.0    14 0          14 0     14 0     is 0     15.0    16 0
Trungk Circuit Terminatlion Capacity (0'(XX   11 2     15.0    17.1    27.9    29.6           450      650    1000    1200    1500
function Circuh Tenmination Capacity ('00()   13 7     17 2     180     22 1     300          400      500      56.8     620      75 0
QIIAI I'IY OF SERVICE
Call Completion Rate (%)
- Local Calls                              589      57 9     594      60 1     60 3         61 0     61.0    61.0    61.0    61.0
ID CAlls                                  37 3     38.0    40.4    41.0    40.3            41.0    45.0    45.0       45 0     45.0
- Operator Coiittolled                   f7 6     S7 9     88.3     818.2     7 8         88.0    88 0     88 0      as 0     88r0
DDD                                     16 4     19 4     26.5     25 0     25.0         25 0    26 0     27 0     28 0     30 0
IDD                                     65 7     39 4     423      41.3    50.0          510     520      53 0     54 0     550
PROD)IICtIVITY (s)
Starfl1000 Working l.ocal Lines                53       46       42       36       28           20       15       12        9        6
FINANCIAL. (')
Teleph. Revenue/Working I.mie (Yuan)          999    1.151    1.391    1.797    2,052        2.161    2.297    2.480    2,428    2.365
Operaiting Cost/Working Line (Yuan)           768      758      851    1.064    1.093        1,190    1,539    1,315    1.328    1.335
() Local Network (excluding rural)
Source: L.aoning PTA - July 1993
la CM4A tL DM  s 0,241)



LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK LIAONING PROVINCE
IN IHOUSANDSJ                              Telephone Lines Supply & Demand                                          (IN THOUSANDS)
LINS                                                                                                             WAITING LIST
7,500 -                                                                                                                      450
- 400
6,000                                                           -                                                            350
INSTALLED             300
LINES    /
4.500                                                                                                        /
WAITING APPEICANI S GOWING         /              - 250
TOlI%OF EXISrwNO            /
SU1SSCRI4EAS
200
3.000
100
1.500
00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5
1980                      1985                       1990                      1995                       2000'
SAIISFIED 82%                       87%                       89%                        90%                        98%
EXPRESSED                                                                                                           EKW409                           4;
DEMAQ -



LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK LIAONING PROVINCE
Telephone Lines Supply to Subscribers
8,000 -                                                 _                              __
ANNUAL GROWTH
RATE
ACTUAL    +        _    PROJECTION
4.000                                                                                             _-2 1s
1993 199.(30%)
2.000 
Working Lines  
1986  1990 (15!%I
1,000           e                                         _
500                                                     _                                         _
1980 1986 (10%)
.4                                                             . 91993 (35%)
100-
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
TEtEPHONE 043                            061                          1.09                         388                          10.2
DENS"TY
EK/W54409.                           .A



Pcople's Rcpublic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECr
1 (XAl. TEI.EPII(INI- Nl-TWORK l.IAONING PROVINCE
Investmeiw Program
(Million Yuan)
1993                    19941                    1995        1_          19961                    1997                      Total
Couponremt               Local Fomti n   Toul  LocalForin    Toall  LocallForignl  Totl|  Loal Forignn   Toull LocallForei n    Total    LocalI Foreign     Total
ONOOINU PROGRAM                  1.,794   9149 2t7943 2.03)R4   71'14 2,8177 2.2335   58n0  2.8135 2,8000  I l65n 4.1650 2.9000 1.4560 4,356ht  11,911 3   50353  16.946 6
IBRD PROJECT
1. Local Telephi Eliangcs          oil    (10        0 1111   i   71 5    77 5    111    65 2    75! 12      0      1(     oil    U11    UI(l   Iul           1511    131 7    152 7
2 OutskiePbant                     00      00      00    516        00    516    850        0.0    850    0(0       00       00      00      00      00      1366        00     1366
3.functionNectwlrk                 00      00      00    209        00    209    145        00    145       00      00       00      00      00      00       354        00      354
4, PowerSupply and A/(             00      00      00    100        n0o    100      91      00      91      00       0(0     00      00      00      nn       191        00       191
S. Test Equp. aid Oihers           0 0     0       ItI) t  05      112      0 7     0 5     0 0     0 5     o;11    00 0o     0      110     11(I    1 0      1 0       0 2       1 1
6. Buiklings                       00      (10     01(     79       t0      79      50      0 0      S      0l       00      00      00       0l      1)0     12.9       00       129
7. Training:
-Local                         Oil      I)      1 10    1 1 0   11 fl   119      5 11     1)     5       (I      0 0I    0 0      0(      III) (0  0        5        (90       5        l- 
-Abroad                        00       00      00      00      29      2.9     00       22  _  22       00      00       00      00      00      00        00        Sl       5.1       j
BaseCosofProjcl                    00 __       0.0 00    963    756 _1724   129.1    674   196.5    0.0              00Ed00          00      00_00   _2259 _  1430   3639
Conringencies
1. Physical (a)                    11 u        u   UU      9 7      3       135    129 3)     4 1 J     3   (0   11          ( 10    U U0    00    0U         22 h       7 2     29 7
2.Price(b)                         00      00      00    205       153    35.7    37.4    18.7    56.1      00      00       00      00      00      00       579       33.9     918
Suboal:                         00      00       00    301      190    492    503    220    72.4          00      00      0.0    0o0       00      0        805      411      1216
Total Pruict Cost0 (                       1u0     00   121I9)   94 6   221 6   17194    89 5   2689        0I11     110     0(1    1f(1    II(1      U 0    306 3    184 1    49) 4
TOTAL PROGRAM COST               1.879 4   914 9 2,794 3 2.225 3   814 11 3.039.3 2.412 9   669,5 3.032 4 2.80111 1.365 0 4.165 0 2,900 0 1,456.0 4.356 0  12,2176   5,219 4 17.43711
(a) Local Costs: 10% Forcign Cosis: 5%
lb) Bank Updatc as ol luly 199J: 10.9% in 1993. 7 5% in 1994  t.d h, tllaic.ic
Soiurce: Liaoning PTA   Jiuoc 1993
is o3



People's Republic of Cbina
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I WAI. Ti:l l l'11k)Nl Nl.IW()RK l.lAONIIN; PR(JlVNUi
InvCstneiR PWhiliful
(Million US Dollars)
1993                    1994          1       _  1995                    1996                     1997                      Toul
Coamponenust Local Fofti n   Toul  oaFoti n|  Total  LocaloinTotal  Local Fofti n   Toul  Local Foreign   Totul    Local  Forcitn|   Tooul
ONOt1NG PROGRAM                   341 7   166 3   53)8 I   381 5   11118   512 3   406 1   l5 5   511 6   509 1   24R 2   757 3   527 3   264 7   792 (   2.165 7    915 5  3,081 2
IBRD PROJECT
I.LocalTelepli L.,itanges        0U0      00       00       1)    I) 11    141     111    119    117        fill    lit)    l 0     Dl       I If O U U        2 7     250       278
2.OutidePlant                     00      00       00      94      00      94     I55       00    155       00      00      00      00       00      00       248       00       248
3.lunctiunNetw4,Fk                00      00       00      33      00      33      26       00      26      00      00      00      00       00      00        64       00        64
4.PowerSupplyasidAlt              00       00      00      1       o 0      It      16      00      16      00      00      00      0        oo      00        35       00        35
S.TestEqulp.saidOthers            00      00       00      01      00      011     01       00      01      00      00      00      00       00      00       02        00        02
6.Builldings                      00       00      00      1 4     00       1 4    09       00      09      O0l     00      00       00      00      00        23       00        23
7. TraIning:                                                                                                                                                                              o
-Local                         Uo      U U       l    IU  u !   u)      112    0U9      00   0 9         (III    tll     ulJ 00  1        UU      tIlt II            00        I I     w
-Abcomd                        00      00      00       00      05  _  05       0.0     04      04      00       00      00      00   _ 00        00       00        09       09
ease Cost d Prnj                      0 00    0 0         16    137    3 1 3    23.5    12.3    3           OIl     00  =00 000                      00  _   411       260 =67.
Contingencics
I. Plysical(a)                    01)     00      1)1      1 8     07      24      2 3     06       3u0     0        00     00 0U0          0U0      0 a      4 1           3    534
2. Price(b)                       00       00      0    005        04      09       1.3     0.6     19      00      00      00      00       00      00        13       (0        23
Sub,ial;                        00      00      00      2 2      I 1     33      36      1 3     49      00       00      00      00      00      00        59        2.3      32
ToullProjcciCosi                  Uu(      I0 U      u(    19'8    148    34J6    271      1)5    4o6        )      00 0U0           00 0U0          if      469       283       752
FOTAL PROGRAM COST                341 7   166 3   508 1  4101 4   145 6   547.0   433.2   119.0   552 2   509 1   248 2   757 3   527 3   264.7   792 0   2.212 6    943 8   3.156 4
(a) Local Costs: 10% Foreign Cosis: 57%
(b) Bank update as lfiiJly 1933. 1 3% in 1993. 1 2% in 1994. 2 4J  iit 191iS. 31%7 in 1996. mid 3 4%in 19917
Exmhsnge Rate lor base cost: IISSI 110 - Yuan 5 5
Source: ILiaining I'TA luiuc 19'),1
MonaIaa W" 6?UJ 808*






- 105 -
ANNEX 3.8
Page 1 of 7
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
JIANGSU PROV!NCE
1.          Jiangsu province bridges the Yangtze River to its mouth at Shanghai,
where it opens onto the East China Sea and the coastal area to the Yellow Sea.
Adjacent provinces and municipalities include Shandong, Anhui, Zhejiang, and
Shanghai. Its capital, Nanjing ("south capital" of China several times), is some
900 km southeast of Beijing, on the south bank of the Yangtze River.
2.          The province has an area of 102,600 sq km and a population of
67,420,000 people (density of 657 people/sq km) in 1992, projected to grow to
over 73,000,000 people by 2000. -t is divided into 11 districts subdivided into
64 counties.   The districts  aiong the Yangtze River are open to foreign
investment and have been establishing development zones for joint venture
enterprise expansion. Nanjing is ChinaIs biggest inland port, deeply integrated
with the economic development of the Yangtze Valley regions in the provinces of
Annui, Jiangxi, Hubei, and Hunan.
3.          The main economic activities are in agriculture and light industry:
(a) rice;  (b) fish;  (c) mechanical,  chemical and electrical products.   Its
proximity to Shanghai and its location on the Yangtze River are stimulating
tourism in the region.
4.          The Jiangsu P&T Administration is organized around 84 operating
units:   (a) telecommunications units in 11 districts and 64 counties;  (b) a
postal unit, a stamp company, and a postal deposit bureau; kc) an industry
company and an engineering companv; (d) a rural telephone company; (e) a material
supply company; (f) a long-distance operation; (g) directory companv; and (h) a
newspaper office. It also administers 3 schools, a research institute, a design
institute, a hotel, and operates housing units for employees.
5.          The telephone network in 1992 was comprised of 151 local exchanges
with 938,786 urban lines, and 575,081 rural lines (with about 40% of the urban
lines in the four cities of Nanjing, Changzhou, Wuxi, and Suzhou) for a telephone
density of 0.88 per hundred population; and 81 long distance exchanges with
26,100 toll circuits. The 8th Five Year Plan (1991-1995) provides for growth of
over 1,000,000 main lines, 900,000 rural lines, and around 44,000 long distance
circuits. At the end of the 9th Five Year Plan period (1996-2000) the local
exchange network is expected to exceed 6,825,000 lines, for a telephone density
approaching 8.04%, and 150,000 toll circuits.
6.          Working lines grew at 34% annually in the period 1990 to 1994, with
a continuing target trend of 20 to 28% annually through to 2000.   Waiting
applicant demand is projected to peak at 6% of existing customers in 1995,
reducing rapidly to a PTA target in 1999 of meeting customer basic service



- 106 --
ANNEX 3.8
Page 2 of 7
requirements (with continued economic expansion, and unidentified unmet current
demand, especially for residence service, the Bank suggests that this may be an
overly optimistic objective) - through a continuing heavy investment program.
7.          The Bank loan would provide for 590,000 lines of main telephone
network expansion in thirty offices in the eight municipal centers of Changzhou
(and Jintan suburban area), Huaiyin, Nanjing, Suzhou, Wujin, Wuxi, Yancheng, and
Yangzhou (and its suburbs of Jiangdu and Taixing). This is 25.7% of the total
1993 - 1997 expansion of 2,294,000 urban network lines in the province (3,191,000
local exchange lines including rural expansion).
8.          Parallel investments in the 1993 - 1997 period in long distance
circuits and exchanges, interexchange facilities, access network structures,
buildings and ancillary equipment and works is expected to cost USS3,480 million
equivalent of which the Bank investment project is US$170.5 million equivalent
and the loan would be for US$79.9 million (including contingencies) or 2.3% of
the total provincial program costs



Peopic's Republic of Cbina
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Jiangsu Province Indicators
Actual                                   Taugets
Indiators                  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992          1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
LOCAL TELEPIIONE EXCIIANGES
Installed Line Capacity ('0t0)            639 2   727 7   814 5 1.103 4 1.513 9    2,164 0 2.715 0 3,365.0 4,025 U 4.705 (\
Working Lines ('000)                      392 4   455 5   527.0  656 S  904.4      1.3030 1,702.0 2,155.0 2,81S.0 3,570 0
Exchange Fill (%)                          61.4   62 6    64.7   59.5   59.7         60 2    62.7   64.0   70 0    75 9
Lines with DDD ('(1)()                     133    328    62.1  252 1   400.0        6000   8000 1,(00.0 1,200 0 1.5000
Telephone Densiry (%) - Total              0 65    0 76   0 88   0.96    132          1 90    2.47    3.03    3.97    5 03
Telephone Density (%) - Main Network (t)   1.57    1 91    2.30    3 02    3.26      4 51   5 91    7.36    9 73   12 04
DOMESTIC lD EXCIIANGES
Number of Exchanges:
Manual                                  68.0   68 0    68.0   68.0   68 0         68 0    68.0   68.0   68 0    68 0
Automatic:                              11.0   11.0   14.0   31.0   400           53.0   63.0   63.0   63.0   680                                   o
-Analog                                 3 0    2 0     1.0
-Digital                                3.0    9 0    13.0   31(1   4(10(        58 0    68 0    68 0    68 0    68 0
Truitk Circuit Termination Capacity ((0X))  11 4    14 5    189    33.9   580        81.8   95.3  106.3  116.3  1300
Junction Circuit Termination Capacity ('00l)  11.9   14 8    16.3   24.6   34 6      47.6   58 3   70.0   800    90 0
QIIAIITY OF SERVICE
Call Completion Rate (%)
- Iocal Calls                            61.8   55.0   66.2   59.0   60.0           60.0   61 0    65.0   68 0    7 0
- LD Calls:                              31.2   32.0   32.0   32.5   33 0          35 0    40.0   42.0   43.0   45.0
- Opetator Controlled                  86.5   77.2   37.2   84.7   35.0          36 0    36.0   87.0   33.0   89 0
- DDD                                  16.4   19 4    26.5   25.0   25 0         25 0    26.0   27.0   23.0   30 0
- IDD                                  65.7   39.4   42.3   41.3   50.0          51.0   52.0   53.0   54.0   55.0
PRODUCTIVITY (')
Stff/1,000 Workting Local Lines              73     61      51      39      26         14      11       9       7      6
FINANCIAI. (0)
Teleph. Revcnue/Working Line tYuani)      1,150   1,178   1,347   1,659   1,871      1,779   1,771   1,866   1,845   1,836
Operating Cost/Working Line (Yuan)          738    S10    320   1,119   1,040        1,0S2   1,565   1.328   1,344   1,341
(C) Local Network (excluding rural)                                                                                                                  Oq 
Source: Jiangsu PTA - July 1993
ama~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oa amu- aa



UIN TIOUSA?JDS)             LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK JIANGSU PROVINCE                              (IN THOUSANDS)
LINES                            Telephone Lines Supply & Demand                               WAITING LIST
7,500 -                                                                                                 250
6.000                                                                                       9,/         200
INSTALLED   /
LINES/
WAITINGOAPPLICANTS GROMNG                               15
TO 61A OF EXISfTING                                                     cot< X/  
3,000                                                                ,9        '     // /             -100
4.500 -                                                                                                  50
ISG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OKN LINXE0
1980                  1985                  1990                  1995                  2 000 
100%                  97%:                  94                    95%                   lC0%                 
SATISf IED
EXPRXESSED                                                                                                                t 
DEMAND                                                                                       EKMW54409Co
-



LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK JIANGSU PROVINCE
Telephone Lines Supply to Subscribers
10,000 
ANNUAL GROWTH                                                                                          1997 - 2000 (20-'.I
RATE
ACTUAL                1   PROJECTION
5000 -                                                                           /       -
1994 1997 (28%)
21000  - 
4  10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
500
1980- 1986 101,.16
100-                                                            
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
TELEPHONE  0 3                             0.5                          0 B                          3.0                           8.6
DENSITY
EK/WS4409d



People's Republic ol Cbins
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOCAL TELEP1ONE NETWORK - IlANGSIt PROVINCE
Invesrnetn Program
(Million Yuan)
1°93                     1994            _        1995          1          1996           1997                                  Total
Components                Local Forel n   Toul|  Local Forin ;Tta    LocalFord  n   Total  LocaFrei n    Total L| al Fomign    Total    LocalI Fomei n                      Total
ONGOING PROGRAM                   3.020 4   550 6 3,571 0 2.99( 5   351 1 3,343 6 2.905 3   644 2 3,549 5 2.766 7   999 S 3,766 5 2.520 0 1,4500  3.970 0  14,202.9   3.997 6  I3.2W05
FBRD PROJECT
1. Local Teleph Excianges             tl    110      0 0     (III   '4 1    94.1      2 4   275 0   277 4       uu    27 4    27 4       00 U    u)        0 t      24      396 6     399 0
2.OutsidtPlant                     414      00    414   1H  2         00   I1S.2    405        00    405    307         00      307      00      00       00      293S        00      2938
3. Junction Network                 0 0     0 0      0 0    19 6      0 0    19.6    11 0      0 0    11 0      2 4     0 0      2 4     0 0     0 0      0 0      32 9       0 0      32,9
4.PowerSupplyandA/C                 00      00       00    212        00    21.2    106        37      143      3.5     00       3.5     00       0n      00       352        3.7      390
5.TestEquip.andOihers               00      00       00      60       00      6.0     91       1.0    101       02      00       02     0U0        0      00       153        10       163
6.Buiklings                        250      0.0    250      129       010    129    13 7       00    33.1       07      00       07      00       00      00       52.3       00       523
7. Training:
-Local                          00       0.0    0u0       39J     0U       n9      1 2      00      1 2     UUll     o0      0 0      00      tIO      00        2 1       0(        2 1      0
-Abtoad                         00       00      0.0 _  0    000           00      0.0      3.0     3.0     00       00    _00        0.0     0_0    00  _     00          30   _  30
Base CostorPmject                  664      00      664   241.7_  94.1   335.9   83.4   232.7   373.3    375   27.4    65.0              00       00      0.0    43.1       4043      838.4
Contingencies
I. Physical (s                      o6      01       l 66    24 2     4 7    28 9     e .8    14 1    23.0      3 8     1 4      5 1     00      00 U      0       43 4      20 2     63 6
2. Price (b)                        110     0 0      rS0    51 1    19,0    70.1    25.6    73.3   103.9    14.0        9 3    23.3      0.0      0 0     0 0      98.7    107.1    205 8
Subtotal:                       14 6      0.0    14 6    75 3    23.7    99.0    34.5    92.4   126.9    17.8    11.2    23.9          00      0.0      0 0     142.1    127.3    269 4
Total PmrectCost                   810      00    810   317(1   1178   4348   1229   375.1   498.11    553    38.6    93.9               00       00      00      5762      531.6   1.107,8
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                3,101.4   550 6 3.652 0 3,307 5   471) 9 3.778 4 3,023.2  1,019.3 4,047 5 2,822 0 1,038 4 3,860.4 2,520.0 1,450.0 3,970.0  14,779 1  4,529.2  19.308 3
(a) Local Costs 10$ Foreign Costs: 5%
(b) Bank Update as of July 1993: 10.9% in 1993. 7 5% in I)994, and 6 1% ilicre.llt
Source: Jiangsu PTA - July 1993
ODD CA A-COSl TS l2*413S



People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORK - JIANGSU PROVINCE
Investment Pmgam
(Million US Dollars)
1993                    1994        __          1995                     1996                    1997                       Total
Components               Local Fori nl  Total   Local Fore,n |Total   Local Formign I  Total  Local Formi n   Total  Local Forei n   Total    LocalI Formign            Totai
ONGOING PROGRAM                   549 2   100 1  649 3   543 7    64 2   607 9   528 2   117 1   645 4   503 0   IRI 8   684 B   458 2   263 6   721 8   2.582 3    726 8   3,309 2
tBRD PROJECT
I. Local Teleph. Excluanges       00        00      0      Ot    17 1    17 1      0 4    50 0    50 4              5 0     50      0 0      00) (U    0 U U4          72 1      72 5
2. Outside Plant                   7.5     0.0     7 5    32 9     0 0    32.9      7 4     0 0     7 4     5 6     0 0      5 6     00      0 0     00       53 4      0 0      53 4
3.JunctionNetwork                  00      0.0     00      3.6     00      36       2.0     00      20      04      00      04       0.0     00      00        60       00        60
4.PowerSupplyand A/C               00      0.0     00      3 8     01)      38      1 9     07      26      06      00       06      00      00      00        64       0.7       7 1
5.TestEquip.andOthers              00      0.0     0.0     II      00        1     1.7     02      1 8     00      00      00       00      00      00        28       02        30
6.Buildings                        4.5     00      45      23      00       23      2.5     00      2.5     01      00       01      00      00      00        95       00        95
7. Training:                                                                                                                                                                              H
Local                          tO)    O t      (ttt   ( 2      (tl     It 2    0 2     0 0     (.2      tt I     0      00 0u I) tI  1) t                 0 4       I)       04 4
-Abtoad                        0.0     0.0      00      00      0U0     00      00      0.5      05      00      0.0     00      0.0      00  _  00         00       05       05
Base Costof Projct              _12.1      00    121   439         71    61.1    161    51.4                6.8     50    11.8       0.0     0.0     0.0    78.9       73.5    1524
Contingencies
I. Physical (a)                    1 2     UOt     I 2     44      U9      5.3     1 6      2.6     4 2     U 7     02      09      00       00      t 0      79        3.7      11 6
2. Prce(b)                         0.2     00      0.2     1 2     0.5      1.7    0.9      27      3.6     06      04       1.1     0 0     00      00        2.9      36        6.5
Subtotal:                       1.4     00       14      5.6     1 3     6.9     2 5     5.3      7.7     1.3     0.7     2 0     00      00       00      10 8       7 3     is 0
Total Project Cost                13.5     0.0   13.5    496    184    68.0    18.6    56.7    75.2         8 1      5 7    13.8     00      00      00       89.7     808      170.5
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                562.6   100.1  662.7  593.3    826   675.9  546.8   173.8   720.6  511 2   187 5   698.6   458.2   263.6   721.8  2,672.1    8076   3,479.7
(a) Local Costs: 10%  Foreign Costs: 5%
(b) Bank update as of July 1993: 1.3% in 1993. 1.2% in 1994, 2.4% in 1995, 3 2 % in 1996. and] 3 3% in 1997
Exchange Rate for base cost: US$S 10 = Yuan 5.5
Source: Iiangsu PTA - July 1993
no 04%*,8M A COST mS 3016163






People's Republic of Cbins
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Project Cost by Year (Yuan Million)
1992                1993                   1994                  1995  _         __   1996                   1997                  Tottl
InvestaweoCow                 LI    Fl    T        L     F    T      Fl TL                     LI      Fl      T|    LI    Fl    T         L      F      T   LocalIFormitn |  Total
Equripe and Serviees
Cables                      0 0    0.0    0.0   00    0 0    00 1      0 0   253 3   2513    0 0    28 0    28 0    0 0    0 0    00 0o    0  0o0    0 0       00   281 3   281 3
Transmission                0.0    00    00    00    0.0    00         0.0  3184   3184    0.0   347    347    0.0    00    00    00    00    00               00   353.0   353.0
Telepbone Exchanges         00 0o   0    0 0    0 0    0o 0   0o 0     00   169 5   169 5    0 0   471 3   471 8    00   43.2  43.2    00    0.0    00         00   684.5  684.5
Toolsendlnsmrnments         00    0 0    00    00    00    o0          65      8.7    152    96       10    106    34    00    34    00    00    00    (95             97    292
Power,AIC,Misc.             00    00    0.0    00    00    011   447          00    44.7   256       3,7   294   125    00   12.5    00    00    0.0   328             37    86.6
Construction/lnstallaion
Cables                      ( 0    0.0   0.0    0 0    0 0    010  267 0      0 0   267 0   93.9     U 0    93 9    0 0    0 0    0.0    0 0    0 0    0 0   360 9     0 0   360 9
Transmission Equipmien      0 0    0.0    0       .0  0  0.0    00    44.9    0.0   44.9   67 0      0 0    67.0    0 0    0 0    0.0    0 0    0 0    0 0   1119      0 0   111.9
TelephoneExchanges          0.0    0.0   0.0    0 0    00    00        6.8     00     6 8   13.6    0.0   18 6    00    00    0.0    00    00    00    25.4            00    25.4
OutsidePlant                00    00    0.0  41.4    00   41.4  273.3         00   273.3  211.0      00   2110  120 1    00  120.1   400    00   400   685 8           00   685.8   H
Buildings/SitePrepara'i.n   00    0.0    00   250    00   250    81.5    0.0   81 5   40.3           00    403    67    00    6.7    00    00    0.0  1540             00   1540   H
Miscellaneous               2.9   0.0   2.9   5.8   0.0    5 8    52.1    0.0   52.1   46.3    0.0   46.3    0.0   0.0   0.0    0 0    0.0   0.0  107.2    0.0  107.2
Technical Assistance
Training.                   00    00    00    00    0.0    00          0.0    1.1      1.1    00     06      06    0.0    00    0.0    00    00    0.0    0.0    1.7    1.7
Consulmncy                  0 0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0 0        0.0    5.5      5.5    0.0    1.7    1.7   0.0    0 0    0.0    0.0    0 0    0 0       0.0    7.2    7.2
Total BaneCost              29    0.0    2.9  72.2    00   722   776.7  756.4 1.533.1  512.8  541.5 1.0543  142.7  43.2  185.9  40.0    0.0  40.0 1,547.4 1,341.1 2.888.5
Physical Contingencies      04    00    04    75    00    75    996    37.5  137.1  62.1    27.0   89.1   14.3   2.2  16.4    40    00    40   187.9   66.6  2545
Price Contingencies         0 0    0.0   0.0    17    0.0    8.7  161.4  151.3  319.7  151.6  138.3  289.9   53.3   15.4  63.7   13.5    0 0   18.5  400.5  305.0  705.5
TOTALPROJECTCOST            34    00    34   884   010   88.4 1,0446   945.2 1,989.9  726.5  7067  1.4332  2103   60.8  271.1   62.5    00   62.5 2.1358 1.712.7 3,848.5
L: Local Currency F: Foreign Currency T: Total
_e        ,m _., *. . .s



Peoplc's Republic of Cbina
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
proicci Cosi by Year (lJSS Millinn)
Intc  Co tst  |__  19,°2  |  1993  __  1_ 994   --                  1995          |        19 1999979|                                 Total
InvesufCosss             1 -Ll    Fl    Ti    I-            F      T       Li      Ft -T1    Li            Fl      Ti    LI    F        T       Li    F       T   Local IFomign    Toitl-
Equipment snd Servies
Cables                       1)0  0u0    1)0   110   0U0    I0\    00    46 1    46 1    00              5 1     5 I    00    00    00        00    00    00         00    51.2    512
Transmission                 00    00    00    000    00    0Uf           00    57.9    579    00        63      63    00    00    0.0    00    00    00             00    64.2    642
TelephoneExchanges           00    00    00    00    00    00            00    30P    303    00    853    853    00    79    7.9    00    00    00                   00   1245   1245
Tools &Wlnstruents           00    00    00    00    00    00             12      16      28     17      02       19    06    00    06    000    00    00            35      18      53
Power.A/C.Misc.              00    00    00    00    00             1)0  81      00       81     47      07      53    23    00    23    00    00    00    151               0.7    15.7
Constiucoon/lnstallaIion
Cables                      0I0    00    000    0         0U0    t1)   48 5       00t   48 5   17.1      00l   17 1    00    00    0I0    0U0    00    00    65 6            00    65 6
TransmissionEquipmcen        00    00    0.0    00    00    00           82      00       8.2   122      00    122    00    00    0.0    00    00    00    203               00    203
TekpboaeEatcbangcs         . 00    00    0.0    0.0    00    00           1.2     00      1.2    34      00       34    0 0    00    00    00    00    00            46      00      46     1
OutsidePlant                 00    00    0.0    7.5    00    75    49 7          0.0   49.7   3314       00    38 4   21 8    00   218    7T3    00    7.3   124 7           00   124 7
DuildingSi/S; Preparation    00    00    00    45    00    4 5                           141 8    7.4    0.0     7.4    1 2    00      12    0,0    0.0    00    28 0        00    230    H
Miscellaneous                05    00    0.5    1.1    00         1.1    9.5     00       9.5    8.4     0.0     84    00    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    19.5         00    19.5    >
Techanil AssistanceI
Training                     00     00    00    00    0U1)    o          0.0     02       0.2    00      0 1       I    00    00    0.0    0.0    00    00           00      03      03
Consatancy                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    00       0.0      1.0     1.0    0.0     0.3     0.3   0.0    00    0.0    00    00    00            00      1.3    1.3
ToaIBase Cos                 0.5    0.0    0.5   13.1    0.0   131   141,2   137.5   278.7   93.2    98.4   191.7   26.0    7.9   33.8    7.3    0.0    7.3  281.3   243.8  525.2
Ph,ysicalContinge its        0.1    0.0    0.1    1.4    0.0    1 4    18.1      6.3    24.9   11.3      4.9    162    2.6    0.4    3.0    0.7    0.0    0.7    34.2    12.1   46.3
PriceConminge=ik             01     00    0.1    0.2    0.0    02        40      3.6      7.6    5.2     5.1    10.3    2.4    0.7    31       1.0    0.0    1.0    12.S     9.4   22.2
TOTALPROJECTCOST             0.7    00    0.7   14.7    00   147   1633   148.0   311.3  109.7  108.5   218.2   309    8.9   399    90    0.0    90   3283   265.4  5937
L: Local Currency F: Foreign Currency T: Total



tout, gs ix gvu alautWNN  aa
en j
so
M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E[661 Ainr - jldW  :2inos
-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            t1 u p6Iuialdwoo )!^AI1V (3)
...... ...... ...... .....   ... ...... ...... ......  .. ...... ...... ...... .... .. .   _,. ...... ......  .....  .. .. ..... .....  ............................................................... ....
.....    ......    ......   ......    ......    ......    ......    ......   ......    ......    ...  .     ...   ...     ......  ......     ......  ......      . .  ......    ......   .....     ....................................   .............................................                          .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
...... ...... ...... ......... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......I......... ...... ...... ...... ....... ...... ........................ ....................................................................... ........
......  ......                            ... ..... ......    ......  ...... ...... ......    ...... ......   ...... ......   .. ....   ...    ....  ......  ....                                    ...... ...... ............................................................................................................
......  ...... ......   ...... ...... ...... ......   .....    ...... ...... ......  ...... ......   .... ..... ......  ...... ......  ...... ......  ...I.                                          ...... ...............................................                                                                                                 . ..... . ................
.........  ...... ......  ......   ......   ...... ......  ......   ......   ...... ......   ......                                    .. .. .... .... ....    ...... ......  ......   ......I.................. ...............................................................................
......  ...... ......   ......  ......   ...... ......   ......   ...  .....  ......  ......  ......   ...... ......  ....... ......                                       .........    ............... ......................................I........... ............................. ........ .... . ........ ...
MOMA ANVTIJDNV
_  _ "                                                                                                                            W~~~~~~~~~~uwuoissiuuuwo0 29 Sunls;. auwid;zz
.....  ...... ......  .....             .      ...... ......   ...... ......                     .    .        . ... ......    ...... ......  .....    ...   ...... ......  ...... ...... ...... ............................................... . ..........                                                    ...          .. ........ . ..........
_   _                                                 -                                                                                                              uouellehsul lu3wdrnb3 Uo!ss!WsuJjL 01
...... ...... ......  ......  ...... ... ... ......   ...... ......                             .            ..   _., ......   ...... ......  ..,,.     .......... ....., ....., ..........................,,...............:............, .- ........   .uoi..
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                     ....   .. ... .....   .....     .....  ...... ......  .....    .............. ....._. ...... ..... ...... ...... ..... .........                                                             U0-             12    sul    j1qv                    j6usu
n                                                                                                                                                                                             .                                                                                              i!.i pi iu euiii   uiiiij   j                                                                                                            L
...       ..........   ...... ......   ......        ......  ......  ......   ......  ......  ......   .....                        ....      ..   ...... ......   ...... ......   ...... ...................................................................
---t---.....  ... .   ......  ... .    ......   ... .     ......   .....      .....    .....     .....    ......       ......  ....           ..     .....      ....   .....    ... ..    I ...     .. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                ..  . . .   . . . . . . . . . .       .  -- ..  .. . .. .    .-- .. . .. .  .. .  .     ..   ....
..t..1.t... z.. .. .    .       ..        ...    .......    ..t ...    .         ...    .... ..     ....    .. ....   . ....    ....  ......                      .. .....  ....     ......  ..t.1 t..Z !. .. .............................................
kIqBlaugls ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~onnjA piguduo kI8   ld 
uuq2w Jo Jliqnd21 SUOIIflt
S1U31Uf~OU Iupp!g SuO!ii-3S
(3) xaAwnS JulwWiOd I
.LNHW4dlIIb3 No1ssWisNyvUJ aNv a-1eva
alealLsluauodwoj  qe  adoa1_
vuulq jo 311qfldaN s,ajd01d



nssuvE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C6L L16 SIXVlK 31 :IVtVNMC 013
qy*)                                                                                       sum wuoum r                                                                                                               £661 Ain( - nsSUt!f/lU!Umo!m1/1U1!IlUopi-H :2ijnoS
3uv!lUOPOH                                    $2;W!!OV UOWWO )
......    ......  .....  ....    .....  ......    ...... ......  ......    ......  .. .  .. ....     ......  ......  I... ......  ......   ......  ......  ......    ............................................................................................. ........ ........ ...
M  ~~~~~~~~~17peowqv
...... ......  .....  ...... ......  ...... ...... ......  .... .. ... . . ..... ...... ......  ...... ...... ......  ...... ......  .....  ...... ............................................................................................................
Su!uoiI!puoZ) jiV put AiddnS J2mOd I I
.         ......  ......  ......    ......  ......   ...  .  1 -A . . . . . ......     ......   ......    .........    ..............    ............    .............................................                                                                        
_ _ _  _  -                                                                                         i                                                                       : UOlI3IUSUO;) lUVId ap!sIlu  °l
..... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .... .. ... -,cm=. .. . .     ............  p! 
l~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=                                         ...           .       ........ I. . I'll,"   ...... ---. "Il  "Il_Il-1,1,1,1'l"'l"'l,l   ........ :..."I.,., .......... 1-'l",.".....,1-111 ............ ...... -8--i
s T Dl l f!uo!s!wwo w  aU1-l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -.Bd;t 
"MIOM AUVTUJINV
.....    ......                    ......  ......  ......    . ....  .....              .     ......  .... ..      .....    .....    .... .. I...   .....  t - t--... .................................................................................................
UOIWII!IlSUI L
a                                                                                                                    b2A X ;^!lza pue buunieJnuteW lu2wdinb3 9
cm|PflMyJ3tiIUO) |
GM zn                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uo!ieItfIAg P!G  t'
| .... .... ....  ....  ..                    ....  ...   ...  .... .......i... .....                              ...       ....                       ........... Ia                                                          n ....
_    _                                                                           1    l  l   l    l  l   _    0    1    .......................................... 1 . iN3HdinO] 3DNVHDX3 SNOlid331U~~~~~~.............. ..I    ......
ii'dimmo(] utpoiiap-j
.. .   ...    ...   Z....  .  . ... ..     ...   .....         ....     ....  I..    ... .    ....  ...     ..    ...    ...     ....  . . ..     ....   .. ..    ... ..    ....  ................... ...    ..I.E  ..Z.  . AL/IL)
lNgPJFUM03 3ONVHIOX3 INOWIIJHHJ.
11   E   Z I                  E   zI I   tE  Z   It  .E..~. J                                                                                         AIIAIIJV
L661                  9661                                                                      . ...... .
alqelawu,L iuauodwo3 3aumipx3 auolldalIL
.L.33fOHd SNOLLV3INfMU4J03313L
euuqj Jo 311qndaJ s,aldoaj



- 117 -                         ANNEX 3.11
Page I of 4
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICA7IONS PROJECT
Optical Fiber Cables
Beiiinc-Lanzhou      Fuzhou/Hanqzhou-Chenadu
Quantities               Quantities
Cable Types                  Unit   Class I   Class II   Class I           Class II
Duct cable
24 fibers           km       91          56         114             375
30 fibers           km         -          -          20             528
Direct buried cable
(Type I)
24 fibers           km    1,046         760         622           2,156
NMSM  24 fibers           km         -           -          48             168
30 fibers           km         -          -          87             320
NMSM  30 fibers           km         -           -           8              24
Direct buried cable
(Type II)
24 fibers           km         -          -          30             117
30 fibers           km         -           -          -               8
Direct buried cable
(Type III)
24 fibers           km        54         21           7              55
30 fibers           km         -          -           -               4
Direct buried cable
(Type IV)
24 fibers           km        19          8           -                9
30 fibers           km         -           -          -               3
Anti-termite cable
24 fibers           km         -           -          5              SS
30 fibers           km         -           -          -              20
Flame-retardant cable
24                 km         2           -          -              19
30                 km         -          -                           6
Emergency cable and
accessories                 set                  13                          50
Tools for fiber and
cable joining               set                  l8                          50
LEGEND:  Quantities - Class - refers to attenuation coefficient requirements
Cable - duct
- direct buried (Type x)) refers to cable protection
- anti-termite             wrapping standards
- flame-retardant         }
NMSM - refers to non-metallic strength member required



- 118 -                          ANNEX 3.11
Page 2 of 4
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Optical Fiber Cables
Beiiing-Lanzhou   FUzhou/Har=zhpu
Types                      Unit       Quantities           Quantities
Jointing closures
For 24 fiber cables                    set           1,003                2,700
For 30 fiber cables                    set                                  725
Special tools for closure assembly        set               26                   56
Instruments
OTDR                                      set               12                   28
Optical fiber fusing splices              set               12                   28
Stabilized light source                   set               24                   16
Optical power meter                       set               24                   16
Digital transmission analyzer             set                6                   10
lMbit/s code error tester                 set                6                  17
500 MHz digitizing oscilloscope           set               12                   10
Optical variable attenuator               set               12                   10
Optical handy multimeter                  set               12                   83
Transmission EauiDment
14OMbs optical terminal equipment         system           145                 509
140Mb/s optical repeater                  2-way
system          279                1,055
Line protective switching equipment    set                  10                   18
14OMbit/s multiplexer                     system           129                  491
34Mbit/s multiplexer                      system           230                  796
8Mbit/s multiplexer                       system           548               2,093
PCM multiplexer                           system            12                   48
Digital distributing frame (DDF)          system         5,200               15,800
Optical distributing frame (ODF)          rack              94                  218
Central-supervisory equipment             set                2                    3
Subcentral-supervisory equipment          set                4                   10
Local-supervisory equipment               set                8                   90
Order wire equipment (OW)                 set              105                  243
Cables and wires
Pigtail (8 meters/piece)                  piece            270                6,780
Patchcord (8 meters/piece)                piece            118                4,007
Coaxial cable for 140 and 34 Mb/s         meter         30,000             117,500
Coaxial cable for 8 and 2 Mb/s            meter         73,000               62,300
Power grounding wire                      meter            600                  715
Rack power supply wire                    meter          2,300               19,090
Supervisory system connecting wire        meter          8,000               60,350



People's *epslbic of China
TELECOPWIJICATIOUS PROJECT
LOCAL AM KAIM  TELEPNtE KEIUIRK ENPANSIE
Exchanse Line CpacIty
AdDed - Other Pro ects      *      d4 t  iJ  n   arp4 , r   s   Dec '96
Province           Area        iI~   a*fjJ~   AIuI*             Dee '92
po*Wt     t Existing     1993                1995      1996      1994      1995      1996      Total
LIeonimn                                                        1,006,650   493,350   330,000   500,000   530,000              170,000             3,030,000
(Lot 1)
DanrdSrg                                         41,000    49,000                          20,000              70,000               180,000
41-43                                                                   KOMoo
31-33                                                                   $0 00D
Jinzhou                                          42,000    38,000                                              50,000              130,000             H
C^ox   n    -   39                                                   10.000 
41-42                                                                   20,000
26-27                                                                   2.0
TIrigkou                                         34,000                                    20.000              50,000               104,000
Ch"nllhe -    21-22,41-43         14,000                                                         .0                  414,000
25-26      2,500                                   (2,500)              20,000               20,000
Nelleon-g                                                        671,066   311,000   *38,000   300,000   300,000                          160,000  2.260,000
(Lot 2)
Jia ini                                          22.000    24,000    40,000    54,000                                    50,000    190,000
68                                                                             10.000
Nkxani Iang                                      21,000     14,000    40,000    47,000                                   50.000    172,000
Teping  -              61-63                                                                               0o0oo0
42-43                                                                             201000
aqiihar                                          36,000    25,000    50,000    65,000                                    60,000    236,000
futIaerjl              87-89                                                                              30,000
61-63                                                                             30o000
.~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Echanqe Line CeDcIty
Added - Other Pro lects                        404s IioiId Iw*l ,Io4ct   Dec '96
Province           Area        World 8u  !rol"; lIhe    Dec '92
CO* pt t   Existing     1993       1994     1995     1996      1994      1995      1996      total
1,513,867   651.133   650,000   210.000   360,000             270,000   320,000  4,025,000
Htmlin                                    6     16,000      8,000    20,000    16,000                                    000    100,000
I WO-4: No        ~~so
yanchew        Jlita;;?69<               36     14,000    12,000    14,000              15,000               0,000               75,000
jinjt   ...               36                                                                  0P
ManjIngr4                                      167,000   183,000   250,000    30,000    24,000             170,000              654,000
DaxIgOI4         40-41,45 64     40,000    30,000                                            A°000°
UhtqteewjIe'<            230                                                                 p0,000
~0. 000
210
loudlj i- iT. :-   235                                              20.000
Ttibfl~l~      .    ......-30-32.63  40,000                                                   ,000
zux I                                           94,000    31,000    55,000    73 000   42,000               50,000              345,000
Ch         e )* ss     20-22     20 000                        10 000                        lo,800
47      200
568     200071,00                                                    80
H                 ~~~~~~~~26                                                             so S  O 
Xllu A2gg- 't 05620W
YTmzhou                                         33,000    10,000    20,000     4,000                        20,000    37,000    124,000
j~j~'~4            25                                                                 lOaC25
C¢ @ ;           ~~~0-81                                                               1          ?17  Oo
Sanyp                     36                                                                 10, odO 3
J Imagka                                         9,000    12,000     5,000                                            10,000     36,000
Des o pt 2n82                                                                                          1o,000
laixlng        . N>  - - , -;                              6,000     4,000                                  10,000               20,000
tOL*fl         ..,' .; 4 , 71
Changzhou                                       43,000    60,000    22,000    30,000                                  30,Q      185,000
OerqhiSnw   :     ~86                                                                           O0,00Q
J intan                                          5,000     5,000                                                      10,000     20,000
Hua~sp       :0           85                                                                          Q10,000
WijIn                                            6,700    21,800    33,000    18,500                                  20,000    100,000
Panjio                    54                                                                           10,000
ptt,^sg                   24                                                                           10,000
SuzIhou                                        140,000    49,000    51 000    84,000                                 I3 000    497,000
Chelgt* ;;  lG         50-59     20 000     4,W0      3,000    10,000                                  40
57-9o      8,000    10 000     7 000    10o000
Lftmq  77-70  11,000    10,000    4,000
21-27     35,000                                ~j



- 121 -
Annex 3.12
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(USS Million)
Cumulative              Standard
IBRD FY and             Disbursemient                  Tbroujh-    Disbursement
Semester Ending          in Semester           %      Semester    Profile (%  M*
1994
December31, 1993             0.0              0.0           0.0             0.0
June30, 1994                 5.8              2.3         1.8               6.0
1995
December 3 1, 1994           86.5            36.9          92.3            14.0
June 30, 1995                83.7            70.4         176.0            18.0
19g6
December31, 1995             58.7            93.9         234.7            34.0
June 30, 1996                6.0             96.3         240.7            46.0
1997
December 31, 1996            5.3             98.4         246.0            58.0
June 30, 1997                2.0             99.2         248.0            74.0
1998
December 31, 1997            0.5             99.4         248.5            82.0
June 30, 1998                0.5             99.6         249.0            90.0
1999
December 31, 1998            1.0            100.0         250.0           100.0
(*) Standard disbursement profile for telecommunications projects in East Asia and
Pacific Region, as issued July 1993
ooCmAA       XL5 111IM3






- 123 -                        ANNEX 3.13
Page 1 of 2
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
ENVIRONMlENTAL PROTECTION
A. Long Distance Fiber Optic Cables
Any adverse impact on the environment will take place mainly during
the construction period and will disappear when the project is completed. The
impact on the environment will be of short duration and will be along cable
routes where trenches are dug (manually or mechanically) for laying of the
cables.   Installation of the transmission equipment will have a negligible
impact.
The Design Institute of MPT has prepared an assessment of the
environmental risks for the two cable routes and has drawn the following
conclusions and recommendations:
(a)   The cables cross over more crop areas (mostly paddy fields) than
natural vegetation areas. Thus the construction period should be
chosen appropriately, and trenches should be dug after the harvest
season. Special attention must be paid to preserve land resources,
to occupy crop areas as little as possible, and to avoid forests,
fruit gardens, tea plantations, nurseries and tree farms.
(b)   Hanging cable across bridges  is the preferred method to cross
rivers. When underwater cable is required, the construction method
should limit any disturbance to the river bed or the water quality,
and mechanical (faster) digging will the preferred method.
(c)   The route should avoid unstable areas such as mining and water
networks.
(d)   The route should avoid buildings and other installations above
ground and avoid crossing any kind of underground installations.
(e)   The cable routes, as designed, should go along roads and highways,
bypassing villages, historic relics, cemeteries and other sensitive
areas. Since it is not possible to know in advance the location of
underground relics, appropriate methods and instructions should be
followed to protect any discovery.
(f)   Damage to soil structure should be avoided during digging and
backfilling.    Plants on the surface  should be kept alive and
wherever possible new trees or flowers should be planted to
compensate for the loss of vegetation and land occupation.



- 124 -                       ANNEX 3.13
Page 2 of 2
(g)   Where no underground ducts exist for entering small cities, the
cables should preferably be hung from poles to avoid excavation
works.
(h)   Noise and dust should be reduced as much as possible during digging
and construction of equipment rooms.   The working program should
respect people's rest and sleep periods around construction sites.
B. Tranmmaision Equipment and Local Exchanges
The installation of stations along the cable routes and of the new
telephone exchanges will not have a significant impact on the environment. Some
of the equipment rooms are already available and others will be constructed
following standard practices to avoid noise, dust and damage to neighboring
property.   For local networks, standard construction practices will prevent
ground erosion while digging trenches and minimize disruption of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
C. Environment Protection Management
In respect of the National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) law
and the NEPA administrative practice, a department of MPT has been issued the
"Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate" No. 0641, Class A, which permits
that department to act on behalf of NEPA on control for telecommunications
projects with minor environmental impact.
The Anti-Earthquake and Environmental Protection (AEEP) Office of MPT
is the department responsible for the environmental control of the project. On
the basis of field visits along the routes and to the sites as identified in the
engineering feasibility studies, and discussions with construction organizations
as to the appropriate methods for erection and installation activities, an
Evaluation Report on the Influence to Environment was prepared. Any significant
negative environmental concerns were reviewed with the appropriate Design
Institute and route or site changes were instituted. Construction specification
are being prepared to include environmental matters and will submitted to the
designated regional bureau of the China National Telecommunications Construction
Company assigned the contract. The Quality Control Department of MPT and local
P&Ts will provide actual supervision of construction at the sites, and local P&Ts
will submit acceptance reports on completion of the construction activity within
their territory.



- 125 -
Annex 3.14
Page 1 of 2
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICAT.ONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators in Domestic Long Distance Service
LD Exchange Capacity (a)        LD Circuits in Service (b)
Region                     1993     1995      1997        1993      1995      1997
PROVINCES
Fujian                     80.0      97.0    115.0        26.0      34.0      46.0
Gansu                       8.6      14.0      19.0        2.8       4.9       7.6
Guizhou                     8.0      15.0      20.0        2.6       5.3       8.0
Hebei                      31.0      66.0      96.0       10.1      23.1      38.4
Hunan                      33.6      55.0      82.0       10.9      19.3      32.8
Jiangxi                    24.0      50.0      73.0        7.8      17.5      29.2
Liaoning                   49.0    100.0    145.0         15.9      35.0      58.0
Sichuan                    25.5      43.0      62.0        8.3      15.1      24.8
Zhejiang                   50.0    100.0    144.0         16.3      35.0      57.6
AUTONOMOUS REGIONS
Inner Mongolia             10.2      16.0      23.0        3.3       5.6       9.2
Ningxia                     3.1       3.1       5.0         1.0      1.1       2.0
Figures as of the end of the year
(a) Circuit terminations ('000) for local junctions and LD trunks (automatic and manual).
(b) Automatic and manual LD circuits ('000):
Calculated as a percent of a half of the total number of terminations
1993: 65% - 1995: 70% - 1997: 80%
Source: MPT - July 1993
Do0 cUw-u& awowXLS 924IA3



Peopk's Republic of Cbina
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Target Performanc Indicators for lleilongjiang, Jiangsu and Liaoning
IIEILONGJIANG                           ___    JIANGSU                                        LIAONING
Indicators                    1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1993      1994     1995     1996     1997
LOCAL TELEPIIONE EXCIIANGES
Installed Line Capacity (' (m)M               982 0   1.4210 11    11 0  2.260 0  2.8401 1)  2.164 1  2.715 11  3.3t.5 11  4.1125 0  4.705 0   1.5IM) ,0   2,0(XI 0  2.50Mx 0  3,030 0  3.590 0
WorkingLimns(000)                             770.0  1,150.0  1,4900   1,9000  2,393.0  1,3030   1,7020  2.1S50  2.18 0  3.5700    9500   1.3000  1,6300  2,1220  2.5S60
ExchangeFill(%)                                784      310      S28       84.1     843      602      627      640       700      759      63.3     650       652      700      720
IOMESTIC LD EXCIIANGES
Trnk Ciruit Terminaslon Capacliy (COMJ)        38 3     63 4      75 6     80.0     90 0     81.8     95.s    106h8    116.8    130.0      45 0      65 0    100.0    120.0    150.0 
Juncdon Circuit Ternination Capacity ('000)    40.1     65.6      85.6     86.0    100.0     47.6     58.8      70 0     80.0    90.0      40 0      50.0     56.8     62 0     75.0    a'
QIJAI-ITY OF SERVICE
Local Call Conpiction Raic ( % 
Local Calls                                 58 5     58 5      58,7    58.7      60,0    60 0      61.0      65 0     68.0     70.0     61 0     61.0      61,0    61.0    61.0
- LD Calls                                  4S30     48.5    48 8      48 9      49.0     35 0     40 0     42 0      43.0     45.0     41.0     45.0     45.0      45.0    45.0
PRODUCTIVITY (e)
Stffl/1,000WortingLocalLincs                     24       15       13        10        8       14       11        9         7        6       20       15       12         9        6
FINANCIAL (*)
Teleph. Revenue/Winking Line (Yuan)           1.160    1,0174    1,0h8    1.130    1.201    1,779    1,771    1,866    1,845    1,836    2.161    2.297    2.480    2,428    2,365
Operating Cost/Working Line (Yuan)            1,255    1,567    1,286    1,306    1.327    1.082    1,565    1.328    1,344    1.341       1,190    1.539    1,315    1,32S    1.335
(M Local network (excludling rurAil
Soufce: Heilongjiang. Jsi.ngsu. IVistming - July 1993
0 OM &AA C      A 1, A19"24I3



- 127 -                          ANNEX 3.15
Page 1 of 4
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROGRESS REPORTS
A. Reform Components
I1.      By December 1995, MPT will prepare and furnish to the Bank an assessment
of the pilot implementation of the new accounting system in two provinces, and
a plan for extending the system to other provinces.
2.       By June 30, 1995, MPT will complete the tariff study and present to the
Bank a plan for implementing tariff adjustments.
3.       MPT will also furnish to the Bank copy of the progress reports and
specific studies that the consultants will prepare in relation to the project.
B. Investment Components
1.       MPT's Import Planning Division will prepare quarterly progress reports
on the two investment components (long distance cables and local switching) in
a form acceptable to the Bank, and will submit them to the Bank within one month
of the end of the quarter.
The general contents of the quarterly reports will be the following:
(a)   brief description of the major activities executed during the
period: contracts signed, equipment and materials received,
construction, installation, testing, commissioning, etc.;
(b)   description  of  difficulties  encountered  that  can delay  the
project imolementation or increase its cost, and of the measures
proposed or adopted to solve those difficulties;
(c)   revision of detailed timetables for the Bank financed components
and of more general timetables for other goods and services
associated to those components (local cable networks, long
distance exchanges, buildings, power plant, etc.;
(d)   disbursements during the period and cumulative disbursement;
(e)   revised list of Bank financed (or cofinanced)  contracts, with
indication of procurement method, approval dates, signing date,
contractor, price, and disbursement category;
(f)   performance indicators;
(g)   training activities relevant to the investment components;



- 128 -
ANNEX 3.15
Page 2 of 4
C. Annual Reports
1.       Within  six months  after  the  end of  the  financial  year,  audited
statements will be submitted annually to the Bank as follows:
(a)   project accounts from MPT for the two LD cable systems, and from
the PTAs of Heilongjiang, Liaoning and Jiangsu, for the provincial switching
networks, with separate opinions on any SOEs, and
(b)   financial statements from each of the three PTAs involved in the
project's switching expansion component.



- 129 -                        ANNEX 3.15
Page 3 of 4
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate
Dates                                    Expected Skill            Staff Input
(month/year)            Activity             Requirements            (staff-weeks)
1-2/94           Supervision Mission      Finances                          6.0
(Project Launch          Engineering,
Workshop).               Procurement. Disbursement
3-4/94           Review Bid Evaluation   Engineering                        1.0
and Contracts for LD
Systems.
6-7/94           Supervision Mission       Policy, law, and                  8.0
Review status of         regulation.
accounting reforms,      Engineering
tariff study and         Finances
progress to develop-
ing telecommunica-
tions law and regula-
tions. Review plans
for implementation of
works associated to
LD systems.
Review annual
financial statements.
9-11/94          Review bid evaluation   Engineering                        1.0
and contracts for
switching systems.
10-11/94         Supervision Mission       Engineering                      6.0
Review progress in        Finances
works associated to
the investment compo-
nents, accounting
and tariffs.



- 130 -
ANNEX 3.15
Page 4 of 4
Approximate
Dates                                     Expected Skill            Staff Input
(month/year)            Activity             Requirements             (staff-weeks)
4-5/95           Supervision Mission       Policy, law,                     10.0
Review installation      and regulation.
of LD systems, plans    Engineering.
for installation of      Finances
switching systems,
training programs,
financial situation,
progress to developing
law and regulation,
and studies on tariffs
and accounting.
9-11/95          Supervision Mission       Engineering,                      5.0
Review progress of       Finances.
installation, outside
plant construction,
and acceptance
testing. Review
financial situation.
4-5/96           Supervision Mission       Policy, law, and                 5.0
Review progress of       regulation.
installation of          Engineering,
switching systems and   Finances
construction of
outside plant.
Review financial
situation. Review
progress on sector
reform.
9-11/96          Supervision Mission       Engineering                      5.0
Review of progress       Finances
in subscriber
connections and
financial situation.
1997             Supervision Missions    Policy, law and                     10.0
Two missions to re-       regulation.
view project imple-      Engineering
mentation and start       Finances
preparing PCR.
1998             Supervision Nission       Engineering                       5.0
Finalize review of       Finances
project implementation.



- -131 -                                  ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 6
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
HIISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1986-1992
CHINA - HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE P & T
INCOME   STATEMENT
(thousands of Yuan)
year cnded 31 Dec.             19S6        1987       1988        1989       1990       1991        1992
---------_w==s=-----------================-=s==-=ssss====
I - REVENUES                                                                                            72
LoCal                        37,344      43,524     54,244      67,853     87,000    145,020    158,265
Tnunk calls                  45,692      57,S89     88,758    107,942    135.870    150.970    218.320
InterationaI calls            1,474       3,122      4,182       4,554      17,790     31,570     69,614
Intern. cal adjustment
Total Teklphone              84.510    104,535    147.184    180,349    240.660    327,560    446.199
Domestioc Telegrph           19,125      23,429     31,037      31,583     27.370     28.390
Domestic Telex                    0       1,623      2.191       2,695      2,570       3.280
Inernational messages           397         383        425         598       1,070      1,180
Intern. mesages adjustment
Total Telegraph and Telex     19,522     25,440     33,653      34,876     31,010      32.850      37.330
Pou                          51,026      61,912     84,190      99,424    127,100    173,150    209,170
=======-^"==== -------=---------------------------------
Gros Oper. Rev.             155.058    191.887    265.027    314,649    398.770    533.560    692.699
% service charge              4,939       6,067      8,246       9,805     12.996      17,378     20,781
Net Oper. Rev. (A)           150,119    185,820    256.781    304,844    385,774    516,182    671,918
Net Non - Oper. revenue      (8,816)   (16,818)   (17,483)    (16,886)   (21.806)   (25.133)            0
TOTAL REVENUE (C)            141,303    169,002    239.298    287,958    363,968    491,049    671,918
------------====w==e==                    = w s== -----------a=wa==a=m=m=                      = a==
11 - EXPENSES                                                                                        72,400
Salaries                     33,050      40,912      54,181     62,413      72,424     92.563     140,910
Mngrial Staff Salaries        7,735       8,847       7,987     10,410      14,819     18.683      19,630
O & M Expenses               34,809      41.012      61,919     77.136    101,960    154.476    176.026
Admin.itration                15,181     17,238      26,726     37,144      37,759     53.645      72,131
Depreciaion                  30.980      34,894      45,551     62,797      75.271    110.964    181.713
Administratve Depreciation     8,065      9,094       6,552      8.732      10,322     16.825      22.623
Ncw Tech Dev Fund              3.152      4,000       5,670          0       8,300     11.332      13,8S4
TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES    132,972    155.997    208.586    258,632    320.855    458.488    626.887
Net Oper. Rev (A - D)         17,147     29,823      48,195     46,212      64,919     57,694      45,031
Intemet paymenu (E)
Differnce Revenue- Expense   8,331       13,005      30.712     29,326      43,113     32,561      45,031
a,..  -----------   a ---------   ,,,- ---... ,_S.==ssw-*------



- 132 -                                     ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 6
CHINA - HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE P & T
SOURCES  ANn A4PPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(thousands of Yuan)
year ended 31 Dec.              1986        1987       1988        1989        1990       1991        1992
-----------U-R-C -E-`--    ----- --- ------- -                                            - - -----
I - SOURCES
Diflercnee Revenue- Expenses   8,331      13.005     30,712      29,326      43,113     32,561      45,031
les: To/(From) MPTr         (11,300)    (12.739)    (17,862)    (16,385)   (10.592)   (31,965)    (38.359)
Net Alloosld Profit           19,631      25.744     48.574      45,711      53,705     64,526      83.390
less: Lncomc tax               4,613       5.755      11,795     13,430       3,541      3,131       8,339
After Tax Net Alloc. Profit   15.018      19,989     36.779      32,281      50,164     61,395       75,051
Dividends to MPT               8.,59       3.275      5,783       9.142      (2,355)   (15,940)      15,010
Dividends as % of A T N A P  58.99%      16.38%      15.72%     28.32%      -4.69%    -25.96%
Profit for Distribution        6,159      16,714     30.996      23,139      52,519     77.335       60.041
'Production & Expansion Fund    3.080       8,357      15.498      11570     26.260      38.668      30.020
Welfac 20%                     1,232       3,343      6.199       4,628      10,504      15,467     30,020
Bonus 30%                      1.848       5.014      9,299       6.942      15,756     23.201
Depreciation + Admin Dcprec. 39.045       43,988     52.103      71,529      85,593    127,789    204,336
les: 70% LD Deprec. to MPT    1,870        1,543      3.762       3,170       8,550       8,770      12,770
 Nct Dcpreciation             37,175      42,44S      48,341      68,359     77,043    119,019      191,566
Surmharges                                                                                          53,924
 New Technology Devciop. Fund 2.206        2.800       3,969           0       5,810      7.932      13,854
 Connection Fees              32,369      44,851      64,356      69,243      98,53    127.285      256.U4S
* DifT - borrowsng+Statc Funds  5.033      (3,483)    17.525       16.210     44,072    151,994    359,097
TOTAL SOURCES                 79,863      94.970    149,689    165.381    251,721    444.898    905,309
11 - APPLICAnONS
Increare in Fixed Oper. Asset   53,524    79,842    106,960    145.718    227,782    280.813        905,309
Incnase in W. in Progress     26.339      15,128      42,729      19,663     23,939    164.085            0
Invesunent (Z)                79,863      94,970    149,689    165.381    251.71 I    444,898       905,309
Changes in Working Capital
TOTAL APPLICATIONS            79,863      94,970    149,689    165.381    251,721    444.898        905,309
a -  = - _--   _-------   = _= =  _g= == = = = = = == ---  =  g=s_s= = = = = == 3= g= = =* =S W
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Int Cash Gen.as * of Invest (Z)
sum['-{Brrw+SUJe Fund))/Z    93.7%       103.7%       88.3 %      90.2%       82.5%      65.8%       60.3%
connecaon fees                             4,246       1,252       6,944       1,945      2,055       2.500



- 133 -                               ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 6
CHINA - LIAONING PROVINCE P & T (85 % FILL)
INCOME   STATEMENT
(thousands of Yuan)
year endd 31 Dec.            1986       1987       1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
----_-"------------------ ---s   a               -es           '---w--''-----------
I - REVENUES                                                                        70,643     81.239
Local                       68,997    94,020    101.892    134,794    190,698   262.040    366,920
TrnmkcaUs                   51,224     71,660    122,852    150,399    190,378    243,439    367,400
InteaLtional cas            4,691      6.238      9.521     38,996     75,720    113,440    190,160
Intern. calls adjusucnt
Total Telephone            124,912    171,918    234,265    324,189    456,796    689,562   1,005,719
Domestic Telegrmph          17,641    22,358     28,354     26,982     23.317     23,615
Domestic Telex                           179        650        835      1,040       940
Intenational mesages         5,101     6,843     10,187     10,032      9,820      9,850
Intern. mesages adjustmenm
Total Telegraph aid Telex   22,742     29.380    39,191     37,U49     34,177     34,405     35,480
Post                        66,739     81,962    107,755    119,675    151,730    '04,555    255,230
Gru Oper. Rcv.             214,393    283,260    381,211    481,713    642,703    928,522   1.296,429
!  ervice charge            6,893      9,018     11,986     15,348     20,959     30,295     38,393
Net Oper. Rev. (A)         207,500    274,242    369,225    466.365    621.744    898,227   1,257,537
Net Non - Oper. revenue       954   -(2,305)    (3,696)    (5,475)   (21,806)   (11.243)    (8.331)
TOTAL REVENUE (C)          208,454    271,937    365,529    460,890    599,938    886.984   1.249,206
=-w----------- - --w-_saw ----------- ---s -s----s--------
11 - EXPENSES
Sa1lries                    33,314     39,621     54,001     65,949    77.473     96,396    123,496
Mngrial Staff Salaries       9,992     10.602     11.992     13.502     19,032    22,935
O & M Expense               45,246     57,572    100,003     96,516    136,409    200,051    229,185
Administration               7,837     12,150     27,032    33,195     31,755     47,634     62,100
Depreciation                46,679     55,724     82,765    109.358    138,045    208,743    297,518
Administativc Depreciton    13,127     14,935      8,981     12.010     15,671    25,397     33.110
Ncw Tech Dev Fund            3,948      5,424      7,273         0      11.634    16,910     25,929
TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES (D)160,143    196,028    292,047    331,036    430,019    618,116    771,337
Net Oper. Rev (A - D)       47,357     78,214     77.178    135,329    191.725    280.111    486,200
Interest payments (E)
Difference Revenue - Expenses (OtEI 11    75,909  73,482    129,854    169.919    268.868    477.869



- 134 .                                  ANNEX  4.1
Page 4 of 6
CHINA - LIAONING PROVINCE P & T (85 % FILL)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
;.housands of Yuan)
year ended 31 Dec.             1986        1987       1983        1989       1990        1991        1992
I - SOURCES
DiffereneJ  Rvenue - EApenses 48,311     75,909     73,482    129,354    169,919    268,868    477,869
lea: To/(From) MPT           17,319      11,672      17.036     32,601     58.816      80.271      95,574
Not Alokated Profit          30,992      64,237     56.446      97.253    111.103    188597    382,295
INS: Income tax               7,283      15,114      13.620     29,786       9,734     17,961      38.230
After Tax Nct Alloc. Profit    23,709    49,123     42,S26      67,467    101.369    170,636    344,066
Dividends to MPT             21.630       2,187      3,630      15.094      76.396    102.354      68,313
Dividends as % of A T N A P 91.23%       4.45%       8.48%     =.37%       75.36%    59.98%       20.00%
Profit for Disribution        2,079      46.936     39,196      52,373     24.973      68.282    275.252
Production & Expamnion Fund    1,040      23,468      19,598     26.187      12,487     34,141     137.626
Welfare 20%, 50 %               416       9.387      7,U39      10.475      4,995      13.656      55,050
Bonus 30%. 0 %                  624      14,081      11,759     15.712       7,492     20.485      82.576
Deprecuation + Admin DeCFec. 59,806      70,659     91,746    121.868    153,716    234.140    330,628
leas: "70% LD Deprec. to MV!P  6,052      6,120      13,619      9,190      11.219     33,690      47.573
* Net Depreciation             53,754     64,539      78.127    112.678    142.497    200.450    283.054
Sumharges                                                                                        199,254
* New Technology Develop. Fund 2,764       3.797       5.091          0       8,144      11.837      18.150
* Connection Fee.              47,090     45,075       1,647    213.626    227-34    267.265    385.007
* Diff - borrowing+Sta±e Funds 35.403      10.923    112,462    129,263    113,941    376.166    (41,663)
TOTAL SOURCES                140,050    147,802    216.925    481,753    504,416    889,859    981.428
= --s"------------------------------=--------------------
11 - APPLICATIONS
Increase in FLed Oper. Asmcs  87,741    116,788    222.474    242,428    426,604    828,317    629.903
Increase in W. in Pogress    52,309      31,014    (5,549)    239,325       77.812     61,542    351,526
Investmnent (Z)              140,050    147,802    216.925    481.753    504,416    889,859    961,428
Changes in Woriang Capital
TOTAL APPLICATIONS           140,050    147.802    216.925    481.753    504,416    8S9.859    981,428
---------   ---------                                        ===ee========ee.==   ----ss ss ss s--
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Int. Cash Gen.as % of Invest. (Z)
sumf*.{Brrw+Sate Fund)l/Z    74.7%        92.6%      48.2%       73.2%      77.4%       57.7%      104.2%
connection fees                            1.738         35       4.540      4,873       4,176       2.589
Res. ubscribeI                                                                                    2,000
Bus. subscribers                                                                                  3.000



- 135 -                                    ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 6
CHINA - JIANGSU PROVINCE P & T
INCOME STATEMENT
(thousands of Yuan)
yer ended 31 Dec.             1986        1917       1918        1919       1990       1991        1992
mmmmmmm mm mm m -------------   mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
I - REVENUES
LOWal                        56,315     72,606     98,035    124,800    163,100    266,U48    416,164
Tnmik calls                  50,822     70,648    121,297    129,913    169.100    249,721    425,000
izurnational calls            5,950     10.193      16,756     21,626     63,577    104,820    181.740
In. calls adjustmcat
Totl Telephone              113,087    153,447    236,091    283,339    395,777    621.389   1,022.904
Domestic Telegraph           29,n73     39,272     52.642      50,864     50.972     47,772
Domesti Teke                      0      6.299        639       1,096      1.150       1.120
Intenaional mussages          4,845      1.962      10.422      9,658      9.680      9,720
Intern. messges adjustment
Total Telegraph and Telex    34,718     47.533      63,703     61,118     61,802     58.612      58,612
post                         93,461    1157,72    144,299    174.857    220.091    30S,689    308.689
Grous Oper. Rev.            241,266    316,762    444.093    520,014    677,670    938,690   1,390.205
% servioe charge              7,636      9.919      14.017     16.653     22,171     32.368      41,706
Not Oper. Rev. (A)          233,580    306.773    430,076    503,361    655.492    956,322   1.348,499
Net Non - Oper. revenue         127       1.549    (5,589)    (1,428)   (12.472)   (13,467)           0
TOTAL REVENUE (C)           233,707    301,322    424.4S7    501,933    643,020    937,855   1.348,499
u - EXPENSES
Saluies                      37,492     43.963      67,014     75.496      38,07S    115,066    126,353
Mngrial SLff Salaries         6,661      7,503       8.066      9,795      14.198     16.951
0 & M Expenses               56,002      75,326    116.281    122,139    146,710    272.613    330,923
Adtinzslrzon                  9,056      11,159     21,026     23.248     27.353      44,023     68,034
Depreciation                 40.428     48,324      63,591     95,563    121,052    213.199    297,730
Administrza ve Depreciation   7,157      8,467       5,783      8.216      10.223     15.579     24.076
New Tech Dcv Fund             4.029      8.467       7,779      9.619      11 572     17,221     23,075
TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES    160.825    203.209    294.540    344,146    419.186    694.652    871.166
Net Oper. Rev (A - D)        72,755    103.564    135.536    159.215    236.306    261,670    477.334
Intere payments (E)
Difference Revenue - Expenses  72,882    105.113    129.947    157,787    23.834    243.203    477,334
mm  m m  mmmm  m m  mmmm  m m  mmmm  m m- m  mmmm   mm=   m - mm  m m - mmmm mm m



- 136 -                                  ANNEX 4.1
Page 6 of 6
CHINA - JIANGSU PROVINCE P & T
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(thousands of Yuan'
year cnded 3l Dec.             1916       1987       1988       1989        1990       1991       1992
-B       _ " a " -----------    --------    ----___ ____ ___-___ __e _----
I - SOURCES
Diffcrcnee Revenue - Expenes 72.8n 2    105.113    129,947    157,787    23.834   243.203      477,334
nss: Tol(From) MPT          33.613      38,953     53377      72.975      95,642    123.401
Net Allocated Profit         34.269     66,160     76,570     34,812    12S,192    119,802    214.480
less: Income tax              s,053     12,568     13,470     27,148      12,769     11,64     21,44S
After Tax Net Aloc. Profit    26.216    53,592     58.100     57,664    115,423    107.938     193.032
DividWends to MPT            18,751      4,378      5.566      11,766     2S.746     23,060     38,606
Diveiia a % of A T N A P 71.53%         3.17%      9.58%     20.40%      24.90%     21.36%     20.00%
Profit for Distribution       7,465     49,214     52.534     45,989      86.677     U4,78     154.426
Production & Expansion Fund   3,733    24.607      26.267     22,949     43.339     42.439      77.213
Welfare 20%,30%               1,493      9,143     10.507      9,180      17.335     16.976     30.8s5
Bonus 30%. 0%                2,240      14.764     15.760     13.769      26,003     25,463     46.328
Depreciaion + Admin Dcprec. 47,585      56.791     74,374    103,849    131.275   821.778    321.806
las: 70% LD Dcprec. to MPT   4,469       4,200      6,027      6,014       6.741     12.692      17.1S3
Net Depreciation            43.116      52.591     68,347     97.835    124,534    I16.086    303.953
Surcharges                                                                         98.146    159,461
New Technology Develop. Fund 2.820       5,927      5,445      6,733      8.100      12.055     16.152
Connection Fecs             59,903      71.196    109,098    163.750    161,614    272,937    462,436
Diff  borrowing+Statc Funds  4,562      43,005     46.369    106,462     83,21    231.901    331,888
TOTAL SOURCES               114.134    197,326    255,526    402,729    421.408    873.564   1.351.835
11 - APPLICATIONS
Incrceas in Fixed Oper. Asets  71,715    157,446    204.184    237,406    453,601    711.212   1.193.760
Increasc in W. in Progress   42,419     39.380     51.342    165323    (32,193)    162352       113.534
Invctsnent (Z)              114,134    197,326    255,526    402.729    421.408,  873,564   1.307.294
Debt Servicc                                                                                    44,541
Changcs in Working Capital
TOTAL APPLICATIONS          114,134    197,326    255,526    402,729    421.408    873.564   1.351.835
5 ----   _---   *------   ---s -Ss = =C=w= =*=s= *=  eg= =5 =   == = ==== = =======
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Int. Cash Gen.as h of Invest. (Z
sum(-(Brrw+State Fund)]IZ    96.0%      78.2%       81.9%      73.6%      g0.I%      73.5%       78.0%
connection fees                          1.620       5,000      3.450      2.819      2.613       1.930
Res. subscribers                                                   on 96.5% of lines            2.000
Bus. subscriben                                                                                 2.000



- 137 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of 1
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN BY SERVICE
HEZLONoJIANo
YEAR                      POST      Tg & Tx            LD        Local        Total
1991                   -25.82%      -19.22%       16.73%        16.57%        8.73%
1990                   -25.34%      -11.34%        18.91%       18.15%       10.61%
1989                   -25.62%       -1.72%        16.78%       21.30%       10.61%
1988                   -34.78%        5.51%        16.12%       20.80%       11.88%
1987                   -23.27%        2.64%        9.82%        22.10%        8.80%
1986                   -15.17%        2.21%         7.12%       20.77%        7.80%
LIAONINO
YEAR                      POST      Tg & Tx            LD        Local        Total
1991                   -19.52%      -21.10%        32.49%       19.55%       17.89%
1990                   -31.07%      -14.62%        31.06%       24.87%       19.83%
1989                   -26.30%         1.51%       25.77%       27.55%       22.37%
1988                   -34.45%       17.83%        15.29%        2.18%        4.75%
1987                   -15.70%        15.04%        8.86%       16.49%       10.80%
1986                    -5.45%        18.33%        5.73%       19.79%       11.98%
JIANGSU
YEAR                       POST     Tg & Tx            LD        Local        Total
1991                    -6.03%       -7.30%        25.92%       22.44%       18.61%
1990                     0.15%         5.56%       24.05%       23.36%       19.37%
1989                     0.47%        17.10%       20.74%       33.09%       24.37%
1988                   -12.89%        29.29%       21.30%       27.01%       21.25%
1987                    -0.89%        38.13%       13.24%       28.16%       19.36%
1986                     9.73%       45.S9%         9.61%       31.47%       20.94%



i



139 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 5
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICAT7ONS PROJECT
FINANCLAL STATEMENTS PROJECTION METHODOLOGY
Geneml Assumptions
1.        All the financial data refer only to the Urban Network where the Bank
investment will be applied; therefore, only the number of installed and working
lines in the Urban Network will be considered.
2.        The projections will be expressed in current currency; hence, they
will include the best estimate for inflation compensating adjustments.  This
adjustment is made using the Price Contingencies Update of July 9, 1993.
3.        The revenues will be projected using the current tariff structure,
incorporating tariff level adjustments but not changes in the structure. It is
assumed that a less than inflation adjustment is consistent with an estimated
Improvement in the efficiency of the telephone operators.
4.        The projections will be made only for telecommunications services;
however, slnce the financial data includes Posts, the projections of revenues and
expenses will be made freezing the amounts for Posts related revenues and
expenses at their 1991 values.  Revenues are clearly separated between Posts and
Telecommunications; this separation is more difficult for expenses, and the
details are presented in the reports to File.
5.        The general assumptions used in the projections are presented below.
The Table at the end of this Annex summarizes the comparison of key values among
the three provinces.
Revenue Projection
6.        Local Services.  Calculated using: (1) the average revenue per local
residential and business line, (2) an assumption about the proportion of
residential/business lines in 1992 and in year 2000, and (3) the expected number
of working lines.
7.        Domestic Long Distance Service.  It was calculated considering the
availabillity of appropriate long distance circuits and long distance switching
equipment and the expected number of working local urban lines. A document to
files gives more details of this estimate.



- 140 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 5
20.       Nev Technology Development Fund (NTDF).   It was agreed to increase
it in proportion to depreciation.
Sources and Applications
21.       Net Allocated Profit.  For Jiangsu province, it was assumed that the
percentage retained by MPT increases 0.5% every year.   Liaoning province
estimated a fixed percentage of 20% given to MPT, and Heilongjiang province
represents a more complicated case which is analyzed in document to files.
22.       Income Taz.  It is taken as 10% of net Allocated Profit.
23.       Dividend to RPr.  It is taken as 20% of the After Tax Net Allocated
Profit.
24.       Distribution. The traditional distribution of 50% to Production Fund,
20% to Welfare Fund, and 30% to Bonus is being changed to reflect the effect of
the new treatment for the Bonus, which since July 1, 1993, is treated as a normal
component of salary in the income statement. Heilongjiang and Liaoning assum d
a 50% -50% percent distribution between Production Fund and Welfare; Jlangsu
province assumed 70% to Production Fund and 30% to Welfare.
25.       L.D. Depreciation.  It is taken as proportional to Depreciation.
26.       Connection or Installation Fe.  Jiangsu province used an estimate of
96. 5% of the number of new lines in operation times a fee of yuan 2,000.
Liaoning and Heilongjiang provinces assumed increasing charges up to yuan 5,000
for business and 4,000 for residential subscribers in year 2000 (see Table
4.1.1).
Special Iues
27.       Cost per Line.   The total cost per line, including long distance
transmission and switching, buildings, etc was estimated to be 6,000 yuan in
1993.   This value was subsequently adjusted by the expected domestic inflation
index up to year 2000.
28.       Custom  Duties.   The normal custom duties are 16%  for switching
equipment, and variable, according to capacity for transmission equipment, being
the minimum equal to 16% for high capacity systems.  However, in the case of
financing the project with selected multilateral and bilateral sources, the
custom duties are reduced to zero. In the case of commercial bank financing the
normal rates are applicable.



- 141 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 5
8.        International Service.   The growth rate was estimated by year by
province depending of the growth in the number of working lines and local
conditions.
9.        Telegraph and Telex Services.   It war  assumed a constant value
throughout the period equal to the 1991 level.
10.       Posts Services.  Values are frozen at their 1991 amount.
Expenses Projection
11.       Salaries.  Salary expenses were calculated based upon the projected
number of staff per 1.000 operating lines, the projected number of working lines,
and the projected average salary per staff.
12.       The 1992 salary for Post employees is a constant added; and it is
assumed that the Bonus, currently presented in the Sources and Applications of
Funds Statement as an application, will be integrated since 1993 as a normal part
of the salaries in the Income Statement.
13.      O1  Expenses.  It was agreed to take the conservative estimate of
constant amount in yuan per working line (in current currency).
14.       Administration Expenses.  starting 1993 the pension related expenses,
currently presented in Net Non-operating Revenues, will be transferred to
Administration. The projection was calculated assuming a 20% annual increase.
Assets and Depreciation
15.       Gross P1xed Assets in Operation.  This value increases every year in
the number of new lines installed, times a value per line updated in yuan
according to the exchange rate. The average value per line was taken as US5 762.
16.       Depreciation.  As a result of the July 1, 1993 decision allowing for
shorter depreciation periods and for a type of accelerated depreciation for
switching equipment, the average depreciation is around 16% in 1994, and 11%
thereafter (see document to files).
17.       Plant Under Construction.  This value increases every year in the
number of new installed lines times 762* exchange rate, and decreases in the same
amount that it is transferred into operation. (para. 16 above)
18.       Current Assets.  It was agreed to use as an estimate an increase of
70% of the growth annual rate of Gross Fixed Assets in Operation.
19.       AdkinIstrative  Depreciation.    It was  agreed to  increase  it  in
proportion to the Administration expenses.



- 142 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 4 of 5
Tiable 4.1.1 KEY COMPARISON AMONG THE THREE PROVINCES
(values in Yuan, except when other unit indicated)
Itm                         Yew          Jiangsu                     Liaoning                Heiongia
Loea 1ued Lims                       2000           4,600                        4,400                      4,630
(000's)                            1991            634                          617                         396
Gain          3.916                        3,7t3                       4,234
Local Working Ls                     2000           4,140                        3,t15                      4.166
1991            427                          416                        310
Gain          3.713                        2.664                       3.856
% Fill Ratio                        2000          8S.1                          35.0                        90.0
1991           65.3                         68.7                       72.3
Telephone Gmu Revenue                2000           8.289                        8.796                      6.272
(yuan milion)                       1991            621                          690                         328
Avepge Telephone Revenue             2000           2.136                        2,453                       1.632
per Working Line                     1991          1.659                         1.797                      1.174
Averap Local Revemi
per Working Line
Reasdenu i                  2000            460                          500                         360
1992            334                          500                        240
Dsuai                       2000           1,170                        1.167                      1.030
I992          1.170                          657                        515
Domemuc Long Disance                 BDz 1991         250                          243                        151
(milijon yuan)                     growth rate 40%.30%                    50%.20%            65%.S55S%.40S,35S
Lnwntauonal L. D.                      ase 1991       105                          113                         32
growth rte     30%            60%.55%,50%.30%                          33%
ConmnacuoaCog                         2000          9-149                        9,149                       9,149
199s          6.837                        6.U37                      6.,37
1993          6,000                        6.000                      6.000
To4a Expenses (million yuan)          2000          5.293                        4,313                       5.192
1995          2.089                        1.,52                      1.731
1991            695                          613                        451
Depeciation (nillion yuan)           2000           3.057                        2.919                       3.289
195           1.046                          917                        a51
1,99            213                          209                        III



- 143 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 5 of 5
(coinunuaon)
Table 4.1.1 KEY COMPARISON AMONG THE THREE PROVINCES
(values in Yuan, except when other unit indicated)
Iuwn                         Year         langu                        Liaoning                Heiongilag
oau Expene (mailli  yuan)              2000           1.461                        1.064                        1,057
1995            617                           442                         397
1991            273                           200                         154
Teleesomaniuca0oa O&M per liae         1991-2000       339                           274                         262
(YanW-orking ha. year)
Sales,. (rnmion yuan)                  2000            287                           359                         337
1995            216                           272                         268
I°91            115                            96                          93
Urban Telecom. SLaff                   2000         21.910                        19,075                      23.016
1995         13.900                        16.929                      18.236
191          16.792                        15,141                      14.636
SLiOW1.000 working lne                 2000             5.3                           5.0                         5,5
1995           12.2                          12.0                         13.4
1941           39.3                          36.4                        47.2
CoaMcuon fees                          2000           2.000           5.000 Bue/4,000 Rea         5.000 Bua/4.000 Res
1395          2.000           5,000 Bus/4.000 Res          5.000 Bus.4.000 Res
1994          2.000           5.000 Busa4.000 Res         3.500 Bus/2.500 Res
1993          2.000           3.500 Busl2.500 Re.                       2.500






- 145 -                                   ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 6
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICAT7ONS PROJECT
PROJECTED FINANCUIL STATEMENTS 1993-2000
CHINA - HEILONGJDANG PROVINCE P & T
INCOME STATEMENT
(thouands of Yuan)
year ended 31 Dcc.           1993       1994        199596  1997                       199S        1999        2000
.--------------------------------- -........... mm m..,,......... , .......  ... *
- REVENUES                       73         74          75          76          77         78          79          t0
Local                     259,326    432,4S6    624,541    822,236   1.053.989   1,325,489   1,633.696   2,016.475
Truk calls                 361.12    561.149    787,572   1,065,880   1.442,536   1.952,292   2.642.183   3,575,865
Intemational calls         92,618     123,19     163,849    217,873      289,659    385.033     511.726    679,997
Intern. calls adjustment
ToalTelephone             713,072   1,116,834   1,575,962   2,1051989   2,786,184   3,662.814   4,787,605   6,272,337
Domestic Telegraph
Domestic Telcx
Intcrnauional mssages
Intrm. mesage. adjustment
Total Telegraph and Telcx    59,728    62,714     65,850      69,143      72,600          0           0
Post                      209.170    209,170    209.170    209.170    209,170    209,170    209,170    209.170
Groa  Oper. Rev.          981,970   1,388,713   1,350,933   2,384,302   3.067,954   3,871,984   4.996,775   6,481,507
V service charge           29.459     41,662      55,529      71,529      92,039     116.160    149,903     194,445
Net Oper. Rev. (A)        952.511   1,347,057   1,795,453   2,312.773   2.975,915  3,755,825   4,846,871   6.287,062
Net Non - Oper. revenue         0          0           0           0           0          0           0           0
TOTAL REVENUE (C)         952,511   1,347,057   1,795.453   2,312.773   2,975,915  3,755,825   4,846,871   6,287,062
11 - EXPENSES
Salaries                  223,452     247,060    26,673    287,279    308,521    331.046    358.956    387,122
Mngrial Staff Salaries     31,129      34,413      37.289     40,021      42,980      46,118      50,006     53,930
0 & M Expenses            225,770    309.180    396.861      484.541     588,581    713,951      862.485   1.057.214
Admuiustzon                80.433      90,395     102,349     116.694     133,903    154,565     179,354    209,100
Depreciation              313,079     350,246     857,843   1,145,134   1,496,816   1,955,539   2.511,606   3,289,318
Admninistrtive Depreciaiion   25,227   28,351      32.100     36,599      41,998      48.477      56252      65,581
New Tech Dev Fund          19.639      27.774      37,020     47,686      61,359      77.440      99.935     129,630
TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES  918,728   1,587,423   1,731.136   2,157,955   2,674.163   3,327.135   4,118.593   5,191.895
Net Oper. Rcv (A - D)      33.783   (240,366)      64,318     154,818    301,752    428.690      728,278   1,095,166
Interest payme  (O)
Difference Revenue - EFxpense 33.783   (240,366)   64,313     154,818     301,752    428,690     728.278   1,095,166
Saries+O&M+Admnin         560,783     681,052     804,172    923,535   1.073,989   1,245,680   1,450,800   1,707,366



- 146 -AN                                            4.4
Page 2 of 6
CHINA - HEILONGIANG PROVINCE P & T
S OU R C ES  AND   A OPLIC A T1  NS  OF  FU N D S
(thousands of Yuan)
ar ended 31 Dec.             i193         1994       1995        1996        1997        ls99        1999       2000
= - -------- -  ---------_- ---------_  --- - ---------   ---------es                                                S
-SOURCES
Difference Revnue - Expenscs 33,783   (240,366)    64,318    154.181     301,752    428,690      728.278   1.095,166
las: To/(From) MPT         16,217   (241,000)    (20.000)    (20,000)    (20,000)    (20,000)    (20.000)    (20.000)
Net AUocaed Profit         50,000         634      84,318    174,818     321.752    448,690      748,278   1,115.166
lett: Income tax            5,000         63        8,432     17,482      32,175      44,869      74,828     111.517
After Tax Net AUoc. Profit   45,000       571     75,886     157,336     289,577    403,821      673.450   1,003.650
Dividends to MPT            9,000         114      15,117     31,467      57,915      80,764     134,690     200,730
Dividends us % of A T N A P
Proft for Distribution     36,000         457      6O,709    125.869     231.662    323,057      538,760     802.920
* Production & Expansion Fund 18.000       28       30,354      62.934     115.831    161,528     269.380    401.460
Welfare 20%                18,000         228      30,354     62.934     115,831     161.528     269,380     401,460
Bonus 30%
Depreciation+Admin Dcprec. 338,305    s7n,597     889,944   1,181.733   1,538.815   2,004,016   2.567.853   3,354.ss
lIss: 70% LD Deprec. to MPT 16,770     20,770      24,770     28.770      32.770      36,770      40,770      44,770
Net Depreciation          321,535     857,27     865,174   1,152.963   1.506,045   1,967,246   2.527,088    3,31.129
Surcharges                85,257     173.570    250.574    329,889       422,903    531,914     655,736     809.558
' New Technology Dev Fund   19,639      27,774      37,020      47,686      61,359     77,440      99,935     129,630
- Connection Feca          693,423   1.128,825   1,419,606   1,628.325   1.943,091   2.306,757   2.664,878   3,765,158
' Borrowing+SSuae Funds    584,146     456,276   (278.147)   (322,910)   (553,894)   (199.814)   (951,769)    459.031
TOTAL SOURCES            1,722,000   2,644.500   2,324.580   2.898.888   3,495,334   4.845,071   5.265.249   8,874,965
=     == -- -------            -----   --------- --- = = ^ - ^        = =      s---------- -------- 
1l - APPLICATIONS
Incr. in Fixed Oper. Assct 1,722.000   2.644.500   2,324.580   2.898.888   3,495.334   4,845.071   5.265.249   8.874,965
Incrase in W. in Prog.          0           0          0           0           0           0           0           0
Investment (Z)           1,722,000   2,644.500   2,324.580   2,898,888   3.495,334   4.845.071   5.265.249   8.874.965
Investment (Tabic 4)
Changes in Working Capital
TOTAL APPLICATIONS  1.722.000   2.644.500   2,22450s    2,898.888   3,495s334   4.845,071   5,265,249   8.874,965
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Int. Cash Gen.as % of Inveat. (Z)
sumz*-(Brrw+State Fund)IIZ  66.1%      82.7%      112.0%      111.1%      115.8%      104.1%            118.11P4.8%
connection f(es             2,500       3,136       4,579       4.523       4.467      4,411       4,354       4,298
Res. subscribers                       3,500       4,000       4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000       4,000
Bus. subscriben                        2,500       5,000       5,000       5,000       5,000       5,000      5,000



- 147 -
ANNEX 4.4
Page 3 of 6
CHINA - LIAONING PROVINCE P & T (85 % FILL)
INCOME STATEMENT
(thounds of Yuan)
year ended 31 Dec.           1993       1994        1995        1996        1997       1998        1999       2000
I - REVENUES                 93,425     107,439     123,555    142,08S     163,402    187.912    216,099    241.513
Local                     541,920    777,915   1,005,520   1.330,603   1,630,699   1,986,513   2,313.977   2,670.325
Trank calls               551,100    870,731   1.306,107   1.567,328   1,380,794   2,256,953   2,708,343   3,250,012
IntrnutionAl Calls        304,256    471,597    707,395    919,614   1.195,493   1,554,147   2,020,391   2,626,509
Intern. cls adjustment
Total Telephone         1,490,701   2,227,689   3.142,577   3,959,633   4,870,393   5,985,525   7,258,811   8,795,860
Domestic Telegmaph
Domestic Telex
Intenational messages
Intern. mages adjustment
Total Telegraph and Telex    42,580    43,850     44,730      45,177      45,629      46,085     46,546      47,012
Post                      255,230    255.230     255,230     255,230     255,230    255.230     255.230    255,230
Gross Oper. Rev.        1,721,511   2,26,769   3,442,537   4,260,040   5,171.252   6.286,840   7,560,587   9,098,102
% service charge           53,655     75,103     103,276     127,101     155,138    188,605    226,818    272.943
Net Oper. Rev. (A)      1,734,856   2,450,966   3,339,261   4,132,239   5,016,114   6,098,235   7,333,769   8,325,158
Na Non - Oper. rvenue           0          0           0           0           0          0           0           0
TOTAL REVENUE (C)   1,734,356   2,450,966   3,339,261   4,132.239   5,016.114   6,098,235   7,333,769   8,325.153
11 - EXPENSES
Salaries                  234,803     255,692    2721,77     286,804    302,412    319,079       336,718    359,494
Mngrial Staff Salrie
O & M Expenses            213.61     360,629    442,042    541,623      65,955    734,790    920,530   1,063,546
Administrtion              80,325      88,704     98,759     110,825     125.303    142.672      163,527    188,546
Depreciation              383,436    907,393     917,129   1,226,982   1,589,227   2,007,007   2,449,355   2,919,274
Administrtive Depreciation   42,827    47,294     52,655      59,081      66.803      76,071      87,183    100,527
New Tech Dcv Fund          35,770      50,535     68,851      85,201     103,425     125,737     151,212    131,962
TOTAL OPER. EXP (D)  1,061.023   1,710,753   1,851,613   2,310,523   2.'46,130   3,455,362   4,109,100   4,813349
Net Oper. Rev (A - D)     673,333     740,213   1,487,648   1.821,717   2,169,934   2,642.873   3,224,669   4,011,310
Intest payments (E)
Duff Revenue - Exp (C-D)   673,333    740,213   1,417,641   1,821,717   2.169,984   2.642,373   3,224.669   4,011.310
, =                     _----- -_---------------- _--- _     ____     _._.     ___.     ____     _...     ..._   



- 148'-                                          ANNEX 4.4
Page 4 of 6
CHINA - LIAONING PROVINCE P & T (85 S FILL)
SOURCES   AND  APPLICATIONS  OF  FUNDS
(thounds at Yuan)
year cnded 31 Dec.        1993       1994       199S       1996       1997        99S       1999       2000
- SOURCES
Difference Rev.-Expense    673,833    740,213   1.487,648   1.321.717   2,169,9U4  2,642.873   3,224,669   4.011,810
less: To/(From) MVP     134,767    14U.043    297,530    364.343    433.997    528.575    644,934    302,362
Net Aa ocated Profit    539,067    592,170   1,190,118   1,457,373   1,735,987  2,114,298  2,579,736  3209,44S
less: Income tax         53,907     59,217    119,012    145,737    173.737    211,430    257,974    320,945
After Tax Net Alloc. Profit  485,160    532,953   1,071.107   1,311,636   1.562,38S  1,902.868  2,321,762   2.88,503
Dividends to MFP         97,032    106f591    214,221    262,327    312,478    3S0,574    464,352    M,701
Dividends as S of A T N A P20.00%  20.00%     20.00%     20.00%     20.00%     20.00%     20.00%     20.00%
Profit for Distribution  383,128    426,363    856,885   1,049,309   1,249,911   1,522,295   1,857,410  2,310,302
*Production & Expansion Fund 194,064    213.181    423,443    524.654    624,955    761.147    923,705   1,155,401
Welfare 20%, 50 %       194,064    213,181    423,443    524,654    624,955    761,147    928,705   1,155,401
Bonus 30%,0%                 0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Depreciation + Admin Depreo26.263    955,192    969,754   1,236,070   1,656,034  2,083,079   2,537,043   3,019,801
lku: '70% LD Deprec. to MPT61.334    137,441    139,541    185,050    238,4    299,731    365,731    434f514
* Net Depreciation       364,929    817.751    330,243   1,101.019   1,417,751  1,733,343   2,171,992   2fS5,21S
Surcharges             295,497    435S557    SU,795    756,145    920,964  1,117,027   1,312,497   1,532.618
* New Tech. Develop. Fund   25,039   35,375     48,196     59,641     72,398     88,016    105,845    127,373
Connection Fees         771,491   1,410,500   1,279,800   1,974,174   1,829,880  2,210,674   2,110,629  2,398,712
Borrowing+Sute Funds    759,721   (332,364)  (440,676)  (936,965) (1,173.562) (2,051,583) (2,456,524) (3,407,656)
TOTAL SOURCES         2,410,740   2,580,000   2,734,800  3,478,666   3,637,386  3.90S,629  4,143,146   4.391,735
=========================== mmmmm ==saS,=ss== ,=====                                  ,=== ====== mm
I - APPLICATIONS
Incr.in Fixed Oper. Assets 1,03,460   2,591.546   2,734,800  2,898,888   3,637,386  3,908,629   4,143,146   4,391,735
Increase n W. in Progsu 1,322,230   (11,546)       0    579,778          0          0          0          0
Investment (Z)        2,410,740   2,580,000  2,734,800  3,478,666   3,687,386  3.908,629   4,143,146   4,391.735
Investment (Table 4)
Changes in Working Capital
TOTAL APPLICATIONS  2,410,740   2,580,000   2,734,800  3,478,666   3,687,386  3,908,629   4,143,146   4.391,735
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Int. Cash Gen.as % of Invest. (Z)
sum[*-(Brrw+SLte Fund)l/Z  68.5%   112.9%     116.1%     126.1%     132.0%     152.5%     160.0%     177.6%
connection fees           3,080      4550      4,500      4,460      4,420      4,380      4.340      4.300
Re'. subscribers        2,500      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      5.000      5,000
Bus. subscriber         3,500      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000      4,000



- 149 -                                         ANNEX 4.4
Page 5 of 6
CHINA - JIANGSU PROVINCE P & T
INCOME STATEMENT
(thousnds of Yuan)
year ended 31 Dec.         1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1993        1999       2000
- REVENUES
Local                   590,015    774,088  1,029,036   1,301,861   1,627,195   1,931,411   2.214,500   2,476,466
Trnlk calls             595,000    U33,000   1,166200   1,516,060   1,970,878  2,562,141   3,330,784   4,330,019
internazionsj calls     236262    307,141    399.283    519,068    674.788    877,224   1.140,392   1,482,509
Intern. calls adjusmen
Total Tclephone        1.421,M    1,914,228   2,594,519   3.336,989   4,272,864  5,370,776   6,685,676   8.281,994
Domeawc Telegraph
Domestc Telex
Interatonal mcages
Inten. mesages adjustment
Total Tclegraph and Telex    58,612  58,612     53,612     58,612     58,612     58,612     58,612     58,612
Post                    308,619    301,689    308.689    308,689    308,659    308.689    308,689    308,619
Gross Oper. Rev.       1,738,578   2,281,529   2,961.,20  3,704,29    4,640.16S  5,733,077   7,052,977   8,656,295
% srvice charge          53,657     68,446      U,55    111,129    139205    172,142    211,539    259,689
Net Oper. Rev. (A)     1,734,921   2,213.084  2.872.965   3,593.161   4,500.960  5,565,935   6,U41,387   8,396,606
Net Non - Opr. revenue        0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
TOTAL REVENUE (C)   1.734,921   2.213,084   2.372,965   3,593,161   4,500,960  5,565.935   6.841.387   8.396,606
11 - EXPENSES
Salaies                  191,715    204.332    216,210    225,172    239,712    254,729    270,559    2t7.424
Mngrial Staff Salries
0 & M Expcnses           416.356    512.013    616.912    758.748    934.305   1,109.863   1,285.421   1,460.979
Administration           74,618      32.672     92.252    103,749    117,545    134,101    153.963    177,807
Depreciation            429.911   1,058.750   1,046.031   1,388.223   1,751.877  2,182.250   2.608,646   3,056,505
Adminuistruive Depreciation   26,431  29256     32.647     36,715     41,597     47,456     54,417     62,923
New Tech Dcv Fund        34.726      35,520     84.492    112,133    143.930    176.270    210,550    246,387
TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES. 173.325   1.972,547  2.083,543   2.624.739   3.258,967  3,904,669   4,581.630   5.292,525
Net Oper. Rev (A - D)    561.095    240,536    734.422    968.422   1.241.992   1.661.266   2.259.753   3.104.081
Interest payments (B)
Difference Revenue - ExpenwA61,095    240.536    784,422    96S.422   1,241.992   1.661.266   2.259.758   3.104.031
mm mm mm- mm,mm,m,.mm,mm,,m,mm.mm,mm.mm.mm.mm.m...m...mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm.mm _



- 150 -                                        ANNEX 4.4
Page 6 or 6
CHINA - JIANGSU PROVINCE P & T
SOURCES  AND APPLIC ATIONS OF FUNDS
(thounds of Yuan)
year aeded 31 Dec.        193        1994       1995      1996       1997       199S       1999      2000
________________________________________________________________-
- SOURCES
Diffeaenc Revenue- Expeaed61.095    240,536    7S4,422    968,422   1.241,992  1,661.266  2,259.753  3,104.0S1
les: ToJ(Frem) MVI for Redistibution
Net Allocated Profit    249,311    105,675    340.698    415,773    527,015    696,619    936,285  1,270.594
les: Income tax         24,931     10,567     34,070     41.577    52,701     69,662     93,629    127,059
Afer Tax Not Albc. Profit  224,3W0    95,107    306,628    374,195    474.313    626,957    842,657  1.143.534
Dividend to MPT         44,876     19,021     61,326     74,139    94,163    125,391    168.531    228,707
Dividends as % of A T N A P20.00%  20.00%    20.00%     20.00%     20.00%     20.00%    20.00%     20.00%
Profit for Distribution  179,504   76,036    245.303    299.356    379,451    501.566    674,126    914,327
*Production & Expansion Fund12S,653  53,260    171.712    209,549    265,615    351,096    471,888    640.379
Welfae 20%.30%           53,U51    22,826     73,591     t9.307    113,U35    150,470    202,233    274.443
Bonus 30%. 0%
Depeciation + Admin Deprc456,341   1.088,006  1.078,677  1,424.938   1.123,474  2,229.706  2.661.132  3,119,423
Iess: 70% LD Dcprec. to MPT 25,317  60,360    59,342     79,052    101.162    123,698    147.633    173,05S
eNd Depreciaion        431,025   1,027,647   1,013,S35   1.345,886   1,722.313  2,106,008  2,513.500  2.946,371
Surharg               224,599    303,193    414,305    531,419    677,301    844,352   1.038,391   1.269,431
* New Techn.Develop. Fund   24,303   59,864    59,145     78,493    100,751    123,339    147,335    172,321
* Connecton Fees         510,526    579,000    615.670    999,740    999,740    999,740    999.740    999,740
* Borrowing+State Funds   1,708.181    534,690   1,249,022    280.864   (111,376)  (562,562) (1,082,042) (1,716.400)
TOTAL SOURCES         3,024,291   2,558,354  3,523,689  3,445,952  3,647,344  3,362,023   4.083,862  4,312,342
_._.,,_,,,_,,_____,,__,,____,,____,,,,,__________________,__,.__-
11 - APPLICATIONS
lncr. in FLxed Oper. Assaul.449,8648   3.136,300  2,598,060  3,623.610  3,533,744  3,745,769  3,970,515  4,208,746
Incrcas in W. in Propgmu 1,514,136  (735,300)    320,440  (289,389)     0          0          0         0
Invesunent (Z)        2,964,000  2,451,000  3,4183500  3,333,721   3,533.744  3,745,769   3.970,515  4,201.746
Investment (Table 4)
Old Debt Scrvice         60,291    107,354    110,189    112,231    114.100    116.254    118.347    103,596
Changes n Woring Capitl
TOTAL APPUCAT1ONS  3,024,291   2,558,354  3,528,689  3,445,952   3,647,844  3,862,023  4,088.862  4,312,342
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
lnL Cash Genas % of InvesL (Z)
sumn*-(Brrw+Stute Fund)]/Z   44.4   82.6%      66.7%     94.9%      106.6%    113.1%     132.2%     143.2%
connection fees           1,930      1,930     1,930  i,931,930                 1,930      1,930     1.930
Res. subscribers        2,000      2.000      2,000      2.000      2,000     2,000      2,000      2.000
Bus. subscriben         2,000      2.000      2,000      2,000      2,000     2.000      2.000      2.000



- 151 -
ANNEX 4.5
Page 1 of 2
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TARIFFS
1.   INITIAL PAYMENTS                      RESIDENTIAL          BUSINESS
(no surcharges)                      yuan                  yuan
Registration fee                     0                     0
Guarantee fee                        0                     0
Connection fee (yuan)           1,000 to 3,000        2,000 to 5,000
Note: the Connection or Installation Fee varies by province.
2.   LOCAL SZRVICE MONTHLY PAYMENTS
Fixed monthly payment
Residential (0 or some free calls included)           5.00 to 20.00
Business (0 or some free calls included)              8.00 to 32.00
Metered service
Residential          Base Fee zero calls              7.60 to 15.60
per 3 min call             0.10 yuan
Business             Base Fee zero calls              12.00 to 24.00
per 3 min call             0.16 yuan
Note 1:   depending on the province, the fixed monthly rate may or may not
include a certain number on free calls, and the number of free
calls also is different in each province.
Note 2:   each  local  (provincial  or  municipal)  Government  authorizes
surcharges, which are valid in the area under that Government
jurisdiction. In most provinces the surcharges are related to
the fixed monthly payment and the local per call charge with
ranges around 20% to 50% of total local charges.



- 152 -
ANNEX 4.5
Page 2 of 2
3.   LONG DISTANCE RATES
0 -    25 km    0.1 yuan
25 -    50        0.2
50 -   100        0.3
100 -   150        0.4
.50 -   200        0.5
200 -   400        0.6
400 -   600        0.7
600 -   800        0.8
800 - 1,000        0.9
1,000 - 1,500        1.0
1,500 - 2,000        1.1
2,000 - above        1.2
Note 1:   These basic rates are uniform throughout the country.
Note 2:   Each  local  (provincial  or  municipal)  Government  authorizes
surcharges, which are valid in the area under that Government
jurisdiction. Some local governments authorize a certain charge
per 3 minutes of Domestic LD, which is applied to business,
residential subscribers, or both types of subscribers. Typical
charges are in the order of 0.1 to 0.2 yuan per 3 minutes.
4.   INTERNATIONAL SERVICE RATES
Japan                11.0 yuan/min
USA                   16.0
India, Nepal         17.0
Europe               18.0
America (No US)      22.5
Note:      International  calls  may  be  subject  to  surcharges  in  some
provinces; however, in general these surcharges are a very small
percentage of the uniform rate.



- 153 -
ANNEX 4.6
Page 1 of 2
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICAT7ONS PROJECT
RETURN ON INVESTMENT
1.   The proposed project comprises the expansion of local networks in throe
provinces (Heilongjiang, Lioaning and Jiangsu) and the expansion of long distance
facilities in 11 provinces crossed by the two fiber optic long distance cables.
The proposed project benefit period extends from 1993 to 2007 when, on average,
the equipment provided under the project would have completed its useful life.
No residual value of the assets has been taken into account as the present value
of theme in real terms would be minimal.  Benefits attributed to the project
include expected revenues from new telephone subscribers and increased telephone
revenue from existing subscribers as a result of the project. Operating costs
attributed to the project are the incremental costs incurred in providing the
service to new subscribers less the savings due to the expected reduction in
staff per 1,000 lines.
Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
2.        The financial statements of each of the three provincial PTA where the
bank loan is financing part of the local network extension were projected in
detail in nominal terms until year 2000, for two alternative scenarios: with and
without  the  proposed  project.    Relevant  items  from  these  nominal  terms
projections were transformed into real yuan of December 1992.   From year 2000
onwards, costs and benefIt. associated with the proposed project were assumed to
remain constant in real terms. The detailed results are in files and show FRR
between 25% and 40% for the three provinces in the cases of assuming project
lives of 10 and 12 years. These results are considered good for this type of
project and are greater than the cost of funds for these enterprises.
3.        The results of a sensitivity analysis on the FRR show that:
(a) a delay of 6 months in the connection of new subscribers gives
financial IRR in the range 23% to 34% (a decrease of 4 points);
(b) a 15% increase in the average cost per line gives financial IRR in the
range 20% to 31% (a decrease of around 7 points); and
(c) the combination of (a) and (b) would give financial IRR in the range
18% to 27% (a decrease of 10 points).



- 154 -
ANNEX 4.6
Page 2 of 2
(d)  A special  test war  made  for Heilongjiang province to  find its
sensitivity to the assumed increases in surcharges and connection
fees, finding that the effect of not taking those decisions would give
a financial IRR between 13% and 15%.   This result  confirms the
convenience of taking those decisions.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
4.        Financial benefits and costs were converted into economic benefits and
costs by making three adjustments: (1) the economic cost of the investment was
calculated using an exchange rate of yuan 7.5 - USS 1 for 1993; (2) revenues were
transformed into a minimum estimate of economic benefit by adding the sales tax,
reflecting total price to consumers; and (3) salaries were corrected by applying
a conversion factor of 2.0. Resulting economic net benefits understate the real
economic benefits of the project because the *conomic value of telecommunications
services exceeds the price charged.
5.        The projected ERR is around 36%, which is good.  The result of a
sensitivity analysis carried out on the ERR is summarized in Table 4.3.1:
Table 4.31   SENSITIVITY  ANALYSIS
Assumptions                                     ERR
(a) delay of 6 months in new subscribers             29%
(b) investment cost increase of 15%                  28%
(c) combination of (a) and (b)                       23%



- 155 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 1
People's Republic of China
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.   Issues on Regulation and Legal Framework
2.   Financial Statements 1986-2000 Heilongoiang, Liaoning and Jiangsu provinces
3.   Calculation of the FRR and Sensitivity Analysis
4.   Calculation of the ERR and Sensitivity Analysis
5.   Effect of New depreciation Rules and Long Distance Traffic Growth Rate
Estimate.
6.   Note on Accounting Reform
7.   Environmental Protection



I



MAP



I



l00s          CHINA                                I 2 7                     13(r
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT                                                                    RUSSIAN
FIBER OPTIC ROUTES AND LOCAL SWITCHING INVESTMENT                       'FEDERATION                                5r
FIBER OPTIC CABLE ROUTES
-5(r      o3  LOCAL SWITCHING EQUIPMENT
e   PROVINCE HEADQUATERS
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS                   MONGOLIA
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS 0  100 200 300 400 500                                                 J >  N
MLES O    1 oo   200   300                         ,      ,-                    ) - 
wJ*'  \  \   LtAONING ?
401
C)  b     N G   JIN L  Zh"b                         PEPM. PFEOPLE'S40
u   /         Lnhe            Hovbd9>,  r*^;~~~~~~~~IJNG                REPr  OFK /E
[1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H
40         Ir                                                        ANJIN-
TowonO(  ,)    |(CT  SHI                                     Japan
* o^-o   <    -t}  {X1  /  I  r  HEBE!   -                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC
'\<   <   >z+@t l    vf    f ToE) 0  X                          ~~~~~~~~~~~OF KOREA
'  -/    ;           ~~~~~SHANXs        / @
I*,rqe gnoSNt(e \ANDONL                                             Yellow
MYNP.V4l 2 / > >AR<,<                                                                SeoWAN
j  ,,U, NGDONG  JIANGSU
X   A SHANtI          o HENAI                           by Th       nk
,r\>s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o redr an a fo,th
--9   HUBEi  <    H 3   sNGH~~~~GAI
9   S I C HHtUB A N       <nEtI                                                          o
ce~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n   the   bon )ne    sho
'-lssso  South China Sea o5                             do not mJ ,on theChina
\>  s       4   7  }             tf v>) vafZ-        JIANGxh{X
>g                       G    UIZ          <QX gGuAZHO
MYANMAkR     0K-NloA ,                                                                          o a  TAiWAN
<       ~~~YUNNAN                    GUANGXi       ,    GUANGDONG
iL   (9   \         <             zit                                 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.s map hos ien pt poned
on  odorse t  or accpran re
( VIET                                                              Int-nol us of T1he r Suchdndil
>             ~~~~~NAM                                                              Goup The deno.,nchorns usrd
2>                                 20d th  br.nd h oness sho-
en_        )       LO        )E>t*o  South Chlino Seo                                               ponyd of ntw Wo1onk G eo 
_   THAiLAND  )   C<>>             ~~~~~~HAINAN                                          s.us   n e" 7, °nOrzsthnrr r r
<   I00   |  _   /  9   11,06                                     1)0      suc~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~h iboundones  10



