LOAN NUMBER 3687 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Telecoamunications Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated     (b, 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3687 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated O                          , 1994, between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower expects to obtain from the Swedish Board
for Investments and Technical Support (BITS), a grant in an amount
equivalent  to   one  million  three  hundred   thousand  dollars
($1,300,000) to assist in financing Part A of the Project on the
terms and conditions to be set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BITS; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to
read:
" (k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
Articles of Agreement."


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and any
successor thereto.
(b)  "MPT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Posts       and
Telecommunications and any successor thereto.
(c) "Medium Term Action Program" means the action program to
promote reform of the telecommunications sector set out in a letter
of September 1993 from the Borrower's Vice Minister of MPT to the
Bank.
(d)   "Project  Administrations"   means   the   Post   and
Telecommunications Administrations under MPT in the Project
Provinces.
(e) "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's provinces of
Jiangsu, Heilongjiang and Liaoning.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%k). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d) On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:


﻿"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) . On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MPT
and the Project Administrations with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic,
financial and telecommunications practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with


﻿the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices: (i) the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments and
agencies of the Borrower responsibl- for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof; and (ii) the consolidated financial condition of
the telecommunication operating enterprises reporting to the Project
Administrations.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank    such other   information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 6 -
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such t,xpenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv) cisure   that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors  as  to   whether  the  statements  of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been approved by the Borrower's
State Council.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:         Telex:
FINANMIN               22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD              248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and yea. first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By  Is/     L - -Do/L dCA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          A i 0,P
Regional 17_ce President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the. percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Dollar             to be
Category               Equivalent)         Financed
(1) Goods               229,400,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(2) Training                300,000      100%
and consultants'
services
(3) Unallocated          20,300,000
TOTAL                   250,000,000
12.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.


﻿3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods, not exceeding $1, 000, 000 equivalent, and
training under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower: (a)
in developing a modern commercial telecommunications sector, through
establishment of market-oriented policy, legal and regulatory
framework;   and   (b)   in   expanding   and   modernizing   the
telecommunications infrastructure in areas experiencing rapid market
development, through financing of specific investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:     TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR REFORM
Supporting the implementation of the Medium Term Action
Program, by:
1.    developing accounting standards for the telecommunications
sector, undertaking pilot application of such standards in two
Project Provinces, and developing an implementation plan for
national application;
2.    undertaking  a  study  of  telecommunications  tariffs  and
developing an implementation plan for tariff restructuring;
3.    developing the regulatory framework for the sector; and
4.    provision of training in respect of the Medium Term Action
Program.
PART B:     LONG DISTANCE AND LOCAL SWITCHING INVESTMENTS
1.    Expanding and improving the long distance fiber optic digital
transmission networks in China, by: (a) construction of a fiber
optic cable of about 2100 kilometers in North China; and (b)
construction of a fiber optic cable of about 4500 kilometers in
South China, including construction and equipping rZ associated
facilities.


﻿- 12 -
2.    Expanding and improving local exchange switching capabilities
under the Project Administrations, by construction and equipping of:
(a) about 160,000 lines of digital switching equipment in
Heilongjiang Province; (b) about 170,000 lines of digital switching
equipment in Liaoning Province; and (c) about 590,000 lines of
digital  switching  equipment  in  Jiangsu   Province,  including
construction and equipping of associated facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1999                        4,675,000
March 15, 2000                            4,850,000
September 15, 2000                        5,030,000
March 15, 2001                            5,215,000
September 15, 2001                        5,410,000
March 15, 2002                            5,610,000
September 15, 2002                        5,815,000
March 15, 2003                            6,035,000
September 15, 2003                        6,260,000
March 15, 2004                            6,490,000
September 15, 2004                        6,730,000
March 15, 2005                            6,980,000
September 15, 2005                        7,240,000
March 15, 2006                            7,510,000
September 15, 2006                        7,790,000
March 15, 2007                            8,080,000
September 15, 2007                        8,380,000
March 15, 2008                            8,690,000
September 15, 2008                        9,010,000
March 15, 2009                            9,345,000
September 15, 2009                        9,695,000
March 15, 2010                           10,055,000
September 15, 2010                       10,430,000
March 15, 2011                           10,815,000
September 15, 2011                       11,215,000
March 15, 2012                           11,635,000
September 15, 2012                       12,065,000
March 15, 2013                           12,515,000
September 15, 2013                       12,980,000
March 15, 2014                           13,450,000
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment             Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan
on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Cirdits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 16 -
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Consultants' Services
In order to assist in carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall through MPT employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall *be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments,
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, by June 30, 1994,
employ consultants to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A.1
and A.2 of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall: (a) undertake and, by June 30, 1995
complete the tariff study under Part A.2 of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank; and (b)
immediately thereafter, prepare and furnish to the Bank an
implementation plan for tariff restructuring taking into account the
findings of the said study.
3.    The Borrower shall: (a) develop accounting standards under
Part A.1 of the Project under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank; (b) by December 31, 1995, undertake pilot application of said
standards in two Project Provinces; and (c) immediately thereafter,
prepare and furnish to the Bank an implementation plan for national
application of the said accounting standards taking into account the
experiences of the pilot applications as aforesaid.
4.    The Borrower shall carry out the training under Part A.4 of
the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
5.    The  Borrower   shall  monitor  various   telecommunication
performance indicators in the Project Provinces and various other
provinces and autonomous regions in accordance with annual targets
agreed with the Bank..
6.    (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the consolidated financial
condition of telecommunication operating enterprises reporting to
each of the Project Administrations shall meet the following
financial requirements:
(i) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the
Project Administrations shall produce, for each of its fiscal years
after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1993, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than 40% of the annual
average of its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be


﻿- 18 -
incurred, for that year, the previous fiscal year and the two next
following fiscal years.
(ii) Before May 31 in each of its fiscal years, each of the
Project Administrations shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by
it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (i) above in respect of such
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(iii) If any such review shows that one of the Project
Administrations would not meet the requirements set forth in sub-
paragraph (i) for its fiscal years covered by such review, it shall
promptly take all necessary measures (such as adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
(b) For the purposes of the requirements in paragraph (a)
above:
(i)  The term   "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations, connection fees, surcharges, net
non-operating income and any reduction in
working capital other than cash; and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and other
non-cash  operating  charges),   debt  service
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working
capital other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and


﻿- 19 -
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues
in (A) above.
(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all
assets other than cash which could in the ordinary
course of business be converted into cash within twelve
months, including accounts receivable, marketable
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly
chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal
year.
(v)  The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
which will become due and payable or could under
circumstances then existing be called for payment within
twelve months, including accounts payable, customer
advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments,
if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged
to construction, related to operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
to the Bank.
7.    The Borrower shall:
(a)  by May 31 in each year, commencing May 31, 1994, prepare
and furnish to the Bank for review, until completion of


﻿- 20 -
the Project, a rolling long-term financial plan of each
of the Project Administrations (including projected
income statements, sources and uses of funds and balance
sheets and the consolidated financial conditions of the
telecommunications operating enterprises reporting to
the Project Administrations) covering a period of at
least five years; and
(b)   thereafter, exchange views with the Bank on      its
financial position.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


