Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 15596-KH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 15, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Official Rate as of October, 1996)
Riel 2,600 = 1 US dollar
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
ARI          Annual Risk of Infection
AusAID       Australian Agency for International Development
CDC          Cambodia Development Council
CENAT        National Anti-Tuberculosis Center
CNM          National Malaria Center
EPI          Expanded Program of Immunization
EU           European Union
GPA          Global Program on AIDS
HIV          Human Immuno-deficiencyVirus
HMA          Health Management Agreements
ICRC         International Commission for the Red Cross
ITF          Interim Trust Fund
MOEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOH          Ministry of Health
MOP          Ministry of Planning
NAO          National AIDS Office
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
NMP          National Malaria Program
NTP          National Tuberculosis Program
ODA          Overseas Development Assistance
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PHA          Provincial Health Advisor
PROV. P.U. Provincial Project Unit
SFKC         Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
STD          Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
WHO          World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Health
Beneficiary:             Not applicable
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                  SDR 20.6 million (US$ 30.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with 40 years of maturity and 10 years grace
Commitment Fee:          0.5% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:         Not applicable
Financing Plan:          See para. 4.6
Net Present Value:       Not applicable
Map Number:             IBRD 27986
Project ID Number:       4034
Vice President: Nicholas Hope, Acting, EAP
Director:      Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EA 1
Division Chief:  Sven Burmester, EA 1 HR
Task Manager:  Christopher Chamberlin, Sr. Economist






KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pages
1. INTRODUCTION ..........................1
2. THE SECTOR ..........................2
A. BACKGROUND .........................2
B. SECTORAL ISSUES .........................6
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ..........................7
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ..........................8
3.THE PROJECT.11
3.T E P    O  E   T ...........................................................................................................II
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE ..................................................                     11
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ..................................................                      11
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT . 20
A. COST ESTIMATES ................................................... 20
B. FINANCING ...................................................                               22
C. PROCUREMENT ...................................................                             23
D. DISBURSEMENT ...................................................                            26
5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..................................... 28
A. ORGANIZATION ................................................... 28
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ................................. .................. 29
C. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING ...................................................                   32
D. PROJECT MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING ........................... 33
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ................................................... 33
F. PARTICIPATION ...................................................                           34
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission that visited Cambodia in February-March 1996. The
mission comprised Christopher Chamberlin (Task Manager), Stanley Scheyer (Sr. Public Health Specialist);
Rama Lakshminarayanan (Health Specialist), Mostafa El-Erian (Legal), Ji An Zhou (Human Resources
Specialist) and consultants Michael Porter (HIV/AIDS specialist), Jim Herm (Management Specialist) and
Cyril Bowman (Architect). Sarah Foster and consultants Chris Braden, Clydette Powell, Jenny Hill and
Michael Cheng contributed to the preparation of the project in earlier phases.  Peer reviewers were
Willy de Geyndt (ASTHR), Bernhard Liese (HSDDR) and Maureen Lewis (LA2HR). The report was cleared
by Sven Burmester (Chief, EA I HR) and J. Khalilzadeh-Shirazi (Director, EA I).



- 11 -
6. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY ..................................... 35
A. BENEFITS ..............................................................                                          35
B. RISKS ...............................................................                                            36
C. SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................                                    37
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 38
TEXT TABLES
TABLE 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT .............................................. 20
TABLE 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE .................... 21
TABLE 4.3: FINANCING PLAN ....................................                                  :                   22
TABLE 4.4: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .......................... 23
TABLE 4.5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES .................................................                                26
ANNEXES
1.  SUPPORT TO NATIONAL TUBERCULOSIS PROGRAM ................................................. 41
2.  MOSQUITO NET DISTRIBUTION AND TREATMENT .....................................                                   45
3.  HIV/AIDS COMPONENT: MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ............................. 52
4. HEALTH SERVICES STRENGTHENING - PROVINCIAL SELECTION AND PHASING ......... 58
5. LIST OF MEDICAL EQUIPMENT FOR HEALTH CENTERS AND REFERRAL HOSPITALS ... 62
6. LIST OF PRIORITY DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES SUPPORTED UNDER THE
NATIONAL DRUG SUPPLY SYSTEM .............................................................                      67
7.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................................................   70
8.  HEALTH MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS .............................................................                       77
9.  PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .............................................................                     84
10. PROJECT COSTS                            ..0......................................................... g
11. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT MATRIX ........................................................... 94
12. DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE AND PROFILE                                 ........................................ 95
13. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                 ......................................... 96
14. IDA  SUPERVISION PLAN .............................................................                            97
15. SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE                                             . .    99
MAP SECTION
IBRD 27986



KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The development prospects of Cambodia are strongly shaped by three constraints: poorly
developed official institutions and services as a result of 20 years of war and international
isolation; a depleted human resource base due to the destructive policies of the Khmer Rouge
government in the 1970s; and a continuing rural insurgency that isolates certain areas of the
country and distorts government expenditures. These constraints are balanced by long term
development potential based on valuable assets: abundant mineral and forest resources,
compelling tourist attractions, extensive arable land, and trade and investment opportunities with
the dynamic economies on its borders. The Government's development objectives are structured
to address the above constraints in the near term and in the longer term to expand the productive
sustainable use of the country's considerable assets and endowments. The project would address
a key aspect of human resource development: improving the controi of three communicable
diseases and rehabilitating primary health care services.
1.2   Health conditions in the country are particularly unfavorable; mortality levels from easily
preventable diseases rival the highest rates in the world. Over half of Cambodia's population
carries the TB bacillus, and from this pool of infection, an estimated 35-40,000 active cases of
TB are prevalent each year, making TB a leading cause of death among young adults. Malaria is
also a leading killer, causing up to 5,000 deaths a year out of 500,000 probable cases, and with
drug resistance a major problem for treatment strategies. HIV/AIDS has grown geometrically
each year into an epidemic, with risk groups reporting up to 40 percent sero-positivity for HIV.
The primary health care system is poorly developed to manage and deliver the services that could
have an impact on these and other preventive and communicable diseases.
1.3   The Disease Control and Health Development Project (CDCP) will help finance a
focused five year effort to assist the Government in the reconstruction and expansion of
Cambodia's health system with particular attention paid to reducing death and sickness from
three leading communicable diseases: tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS. Tuberculosis and
malaria control efforts will be expanded and improved and the rapidly expanding HIV/AIDS
epidemic will be checked through a range of preventive measures focusing on blood safety,
information and behavioral change. To ensure the effectiveness of these programs and other
primary health care interventions, the project will also help rehabilitate the long neglected public
health services and establish modern management techniques focused on objectives and
performance.



2. THE SECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
Health Situation
2.1    Health conditions in Cambodia are extremely poor and have barely improved over the
last twenty years, due to the virtual dismantling of the health system during the 1970s and overall
lack of investment in the health system since then. Data on the health situation is limited,
however, it is known that Cambodia suffers from a very high burden of mortality from
preventable and curable diseases. An estimated 115 out of every 1,000 infants under the age of
one die-nearly three times the regional infant mortality rate of 42 per 1,000 live births -- while
the under-five mortality rate is 181 per 1,000 live births as compared to the regional rate of 56
per 1,000 -- with acute respiratory infections, diarrhea and malaria being the leading causes of
childhood mortality. Maternal health is little better -- the maternal mortality ratio estimated at
900 per 100,000 births is the highest in East Asia. Tuberculosis and malaria are widespread and
are leading causes of death, and HIV/AIDS is rapidly reaching epidemic proportions.
2.2    Tuberculosis. Cambodia harbors some of the highest rates of TB in the world, with
active TB cases reported to be over 800 per 100,000 population in some areas. Over half the
population is infected with the TB bacillus, and from this pool of infection, 35-40,000 active
cases exist at any one time, making TB a leading killer of young adults and a significant threat to
children.
2.3   Even with increased disease control efforts, a decrease in the number of active TB cases
may not be realized for many years. Rather, over the next five years, Cambodia is likely to see
an increase in the number of TB patients due to the effects of HIV infection, which dramatically
increases the risk of developing TB; the increased availability and capacity of medical staff to
diagnose TB; and the increased reliability and quality of TB treatment attracting a greater
number of patients. In order to decrease the prevalence of TB in the population and reduce the
number of new cases over a five to ten year time frame, about 70 percent of active cases (24,000
cases) will need to be treated each year, a 50 percent increase over the number of cases treated in
1994 and 1995.
2.4   Malaria. Malaria is a major cause of illness and death in Cambodia, with 100,000
laboratory confirmed cases and 1,100 recorded deaths in 1994. The real figures may be up to
five times higher, with the overall case fatality rate estimated at about 1 percent, and rising to
over 10 percent, in some malaria-prone districts.
2.5    An estimated 17 percent of the country's population live in areas where there is a high
risk of malaria transmission. These high risk areas are the forested areas and rubber plantations
towards the borders of the country. The densely populated central and south-eastern rice
growing areas, along the Tonle Sap River, are low risk areas for malaria. However, there is a



- 3 -
large transient population, mainly made up of young men, who venture into the forests to make a
living, thereby increasing the population at high risk of malaria infection.
2.6   Drug resistant malaria is a rising problem in Cambodia. About 80 percent of the malaria
infections are caused by Plasmodium falciparum malaria, which has developed a high level of
drug resistance, especially in the western provinces. An additional problem is that many people
rely on drugs bought in the marketplace to treat malaria, sometimes spending more than US$100
on inappropriate and dangerous medicines. Such inappropriate treatment is thought to be a major
factor behind the high case fatality rates among malaria victims in Cambodia.
2.7   HIV/AIDS. Compared globally, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) emerged late
in Cambodia. First detected in 1991, the virus continues a relentless spread in the community,
and the country faces, potentially, the worst HIV epidemic in Asia. The rate of increase of HIV
prevalence among blood donors is phenomenal and alarming, rising in Phnom Penh from 0.075
percent in 1991 to 8 percent in October 1995. Figures of HIV prevalence in mid-1995 derived
from surveillance activities are similarly of concern. Not surprisingly, prostitutes show the
highest infection rates, ranging up to 40 percent of those tested in Battambang. Especially
disturbing is the number of pregnant women found HIV-positive, over 4 percent in Siem Reap
and Sihanoukville. The military and police are increasingly infected, with around 10 percent of
the force tested being HIV-positive in some locations, and patients with sexually transmitted
diseases (STDs) in Phnom Penh showing similar levels of infection in a 1994 survey. Among
tuberculosis patients in 1995, between 20 and 31 percent were HIV-positive.
2.8   From the available epidemiological data, the virus appears to be relatively evenly spread
across the main urban centers. The epidemic is mainly sexually transmitted and of those
identified with HIV, about 75 percent are men. An assessment of intravenous drug use
conducted by the World Bank in November 1995 revealed little evidence of such practices
despite the high volume of drug trafficking in the region. However, there were early indications
that the situation may be changing. Indiscriminate use of needles for injections by providers of
medical care is clearly a threat and may have contributed to the rapid rise of HIV prevalence.
The Health System
2.9  In theory, the public health system in Cambodia consists of a clinic in each commune, a
referral hospital in each district capital, and a provincial hospital in each provincial capital. In
reality, most clinics are non-existent or virtually non-functioning at the commune level, with
poorly motivated staff offering very limited services. Few of the district hospitals offer referral
services. Instead they function more like clinics offering an outpatient clinic, mother and child
health care, vaccinations and limited in-patient care for TB patients. Medical, surgical and
obstetrical emergencies can only be treated in provincial hospitals, in national hospitals, and in a
limited number of district hospitals. Overall, existing services are heavily biased in favor of
Phnom Penh and the provincial capitals, with only 13 percent of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
workforce employed in rural areas.



2.10   Where services are available, their quality is often poor and utilization of existing
facilities low. Reasons for this include the poor state of facilities, inadequate equipment and
drug supplies, the lack of quality and relevant training for health workers, and the low level of
staff salaries leading to widespread informal fee charging for drugs and services by public health
workers. The high maternal mortality ratio in Cambodia is to a large extent due to the lack of
qualified surgeons/obstetricians in the country. Where donors have helped upgrade the clinical
skills of the staff, ensured a reliable drug supply, and rehabilitated the facilities, utilization has
increased dramatically, pointing to the large unmet demand for quality modem health services.
2.11   Up until 1993, the public health system was decentralized, and the provincial authorities
were relatively autonomous in the management and financing of health services. This resulted in
a weak central level and a large variation in terms of resource allocation and the quality of health
care among the different provinces. Since 1993, the Ministry of Health, with the support of
advisors from WHO and UNICEF, has endeavored to develop policies and plans to restructure
and rationalize the health system. This resulted in the publication of the "National Health
Development Plan 1994-1996" which redefines the institutional framework for the health system
and the services offered at each level, in an aim to rationalize the use of resources. The focus of
the plan is the development of the district health system to deliver essential primary health care
to meet communities' basic health needs.
2.12   The reform of the health system implies a revision of the expected roles of each level of
care as well as a revision of infrastructure coverage in accordance with population distribution,
not administrative divisions, as before. Under the Health Plan, the health system is to be
organized into three levels:
(a)    Peripheral level (or "operational district"), made up of health centers and district
referral hospitals.  Health centers will be the point of first contact for the
population and would provide a minimum package of services (public health and
minor curative) for a 10,000 person catchment area. Referral hospitals will offer
first referral support to the health centers and provide a complementary package
of public health and essential clinical services.
(b)   Intermediate level consisting of provincial directorates, hospitals and health
institutions in the province. The Provincial Health Directorate is the link between
the MOH and the operational districts. Provincial hospitals will act as referral
hospitals for the district in which they are situated and will offer a number of
specialized services that are not provided by the district hospitals.
(c)    Central level consisting of the MOH, national institutes, national programs and
national hospitals.
2.13   Health coverage plans are being developed at the provincial level, in consultation with
local authorities and communities, to define clearly the location of district-level health facilities,
the services offered and their catchment areas.



2.14  As part of the Health Plan the national disease control programs are to be strengthened,
including those for TB, malaria and AIDS. In the past, these programs have been run as vertical
programs with management and reporting structures separate from the general health system.
However, they are now in the process of being integrated with the other health care services
provided at the district and provincial level, and the capacity within the MOH to play a more
active role in their management and evaluation is being developed.
2.15 National Tuberculosis Program (NTP). The NTP was established in 1980 under the
management authority of the National Anti-Tuberculosis Center (CENAT) based in Phnom
Penh. CENAT has responsibility for managing and supervising TB control activities, including
the definition of drug requirements and equipment for TB diagnosis and treatment and training
provincial and district-level health workers in diagnosis and patient care. In 1993, a National
Tuberculosis Control Plan was completed with the assistance of WHO. It sets out objectives and
targets for the program. The main targets are to increase the case detection rate from 30 percent
to 70 percent and the cure rate to 85 percent by the year 2000. As of late 1995, the NTP had
covered over half of all public hospitals with its new short-course therapy procedures, drugs and
training.
2.16  Treatment for TB is generally administered on an in-patient basis (directly observed
treatment) for the first two to three months. Food supplements are provided to patients on a daily
basis while in the hospital, and on a monthly basis during the follow-up ambulatory phase. This
food program, mostly financed by the World Food Program until now, encourages patients to
remain in hospital for intensive treatment and acts as an incentive for completing their therapy as
an out-patient.
2.17 National Malaria Program (NMP). The NMP, also established in 1980, is managed at
the central level by the National Malaria Center (CNM). As with the tuberculosis program,
malaria treatment activities are undertaken primarily by provincial and district level health
workers, with CNM providing technical supervision, training and support. Malaria vector
control activities, including impregnated bednet supervision, is coordinated by CNM at the
central level.
2.18  The primary objective of the NMP is to reduce malaria mortality and morbidity, with a
target of supplying all central, provincial and district hospitals with sufficient antimalarial drugs
effective for their area and achieving less than 2 percent hospital mortality from malaria by the
year 2000. A three-fold strategy has been developed to achieve this: first, improve the access to
early, accurate diagnosis and prompt, effective treatment; second, increase the use of preventive
measures, particularly impregnated bednets; and third, develop community understanding of the
prevention and recognition of the disease and its rational treatment. The second objective of the
NMP is to develop the institutional capacity to control vector borne diseases through improved
management, training and research.
2.19 National AIDS Program. Given the relatively recent incidence of AIDS in Cambodia,
the national program for its prevention and control is relatively undeveloped. The response to
the epidemic has been largely driven by external concern and support through WHO, UNDP and



-6 -
the international NGO community. This has been critical in assisting the Government to focus
on the issue and organize a response. A National AIDS Committee, chaired by the Minister of
Health, was formed in 1992 to provide a multisectoral response to the epidemic. In 1993, a
National AIDS Office (NAO) was established, located within the Ministry of Health. Staffed by
six professionals, all doctors, the office manages the national program and acts as a de facto
secretariat for the recently renamed National STD and AIDS Control Committee.
2.20  Despite the establishment of the NAO, there is still scant intersectoral coordination and
limited program effort on HIV/AIDS. The NAO has insufficient resources, both human and
financial, to be able to conduct a program on the scale needed if the epidemic is to be slowed. To
date, NAO has relied on financing from the WHO/GPA (Global Program on AIDS), which is
expected to stop at the end of 1995. The termination of WHO/GPA financing creates uncertainty
and a loss of resources for NAO, which in 1996 and 1997 only has commitments of
US$150,000/year from UNAIDS and an uncertain future government allocation. Given the
limited resources for the national program, in effect, most HIV/AIDS activities are supported by
NGOs. Particularly successful NGO programs include the social marketing of condoms, which
has expanded the market for safe, reliable condoms. Recently, with the increasing need to take
action on the HIV issue, the spotlight has been cast on high risk behaviors and how they could be
modified.
B. SECTORAL ISSUES
2.21  Low coverage and impact of public health programs. The public health system in
Cambodia was virtually dismantled during the 1970s, and today, aside from EPI, national public
health programs have yet to exert a sustained impact on disease and death from preventable and
communicable diseases. EPI has been operating for many years with sustained support from
UNICEF and WHO and is often the only public health service available to rural communities.
Similar sustained efforts are required to have the desired impact on malaria, TB and AIDS.
2.22  Low public spending on health services. Public budgets for health have historically
been very low in Cambodia, rising to about 49 billion riels (approx. US$20 million) or 0.7
percent of GDP in 1995. This is equivalent to less than US$2 per capita, far less than the US$12
per capita recommended for low income countries. Cost estimates by the MOH indicate that
US$5-6 per capita will be needed to provide a minimum package of services at commune clinic
and district hospital levels alone. The historically low levels of public expenditures for health is
compounded by the even lower share given to essential services. Currently, government
resources are dedicated heavily to the running costs of hospital services in Phnom Penh and
provincial and district facilities -- 50 percent of the government budget is spent on tertiary and
secondary hospitals. Very limited services are provided in TB, malaria and maternal and child
care, particularly at the commune level, where only 15 percent of the public health budget is
directed. The lack of public health services has meant that many people turn to the private sector
for medical care. The Socio-Economic Survey of Cambodia 1993-94 indicates that households
spend about US$22 a year per capita on health care, 7 percent of a household budget. These
expenditures are primarily for drugs purchased at pharmacies and local drug sellers. Often these
drugs are wrongly prescribed or administered and can worsen health problems.



- 7 -
2.23  Inappropriate distribution of health system resources. The present composition of the
health care workforce and facilities and their distribution are not meeting the health care needs of
the Cambodian population. An estimated 25 percent of the rural population do not have access
to public health care. Health workers are poorly trained, poorly motivated and poorly paid.
Reform of the health system is needed with particular emphasis given to rationalizing and
improving the services of clinics and referral hospitals, and the managerial links between the
two. This need is well-recognized by the MOH and is addressed through their strategy of
developing provincial health coverage plans and an operational district-based health system. The
main challenge now is to finalize these plans and implement them. The issue of staff pay levels
is being addressed at the national level, through civil service reform. The MOH is a pilot
ministry for this effort, which has substantial donor support.
2.24 Weak management capacity. Management and supervisory linkages between the MOH
and the provinces are weak, in part because of the historical autonomy of the provincial level.
Responsibility and accountability between the center and intermediary and peripheral levels of
the health system are lacking. Few staff are trained in managerial techniques or in planning,
budgeting and supervision. Invariably, it has been the presence of NGO support or provincial
health advisors, financed by WHO and UNICEF, that have enabled management issues to be
dealt with, in spite of system deficiencies. Improving the responsiveness and accountability
between the Ministry of Health and the provincial and lower levels of the health system will
require reforming the "contractual" responsibilities of various parties in the public health system,
to increase the degree of accountability and expected performance of health care providers at all
levels.
C. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.25 Following a period of intense policy dialogue and assistance from external advisors, the
Ministry of Health has defined clear policies and service delivery strategies for the health sector.
The overall aim of the Government's National Health Policy is to "improve the health and well-
being of the Cambodian people by making full use of both public and private health care
systems, giving special attention to health education, preventative and curative health care for
people living in rural areas."
2.26 At the heart of the Government's strategy is the strengthening of a district-based health
care system through which a cost-effective but essential minimum package of primary and
preventive health services can be delivered to rural areas. Other priorities include reducing the
incidence of communicable diseases, in particular, priority diseases that account for most of the
burden of disease in Cambodia, including malaria, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted diseases
and HIV; rehabilitating and upgrading the system infrastructure, including human resources, so
as to deliver health services more effectively down to the primary service level; ensuring an
adequate and secure supply of drugs throughout the health system; and ensuring the full
participation of both the public and private sectors in the delivery of health services, within
appropriate regulatory frameworks to raise service standards.



2.27  Through a process of restructuring and investment, the Government aims to develop an
affordable and rational health service that meets the priority health needs of the population. The
strategy to attain this objective embraces four key principles: increase the direct links between
MOH and provincial and district systems on policy, budget and management matters; build-up
the relevant national disease control programs;- expand national budgetary support for the health
system; and more effectively coordinate donor support to fill identified gaps in financing. Thus,
malaria and TB control programs require a full range of facilities, equipment and drugs in
referral hospitals and health centers in order for these programs to be effective.
2.28 Donors are strongly supportive of the government's health plan and have assisted in its
development and implementation. In particular, UNICEF and WHO have been supporting local
service delivery (UNICEF finances provincial health advisors, immunization and essential drug
programs) and building policy and management capacities at the central MOH (WHO, ODA and
UNDP). The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved a Basic Health Services project in
five provinces, and has coordinated its plans closely with World Bank project preparation.
Together, the two projects will provide facility, equipment and essential drugs for 15 provinces
and 80 percent of the population. Overall, donor coordination is good, as is the integration of
NGO-supported activities into the government's program. NGOs have played an important role
in providing health services and training in Cambodia over the past five years. Over 70 NGOs
are active in the health sector, the majority running small-scale primary health care projects in
rural districts. Many of them have well-qualified and skilled staff and have helped establish
well-run health facilities. Their experience is likely to prove invaluable in implementing the
government's district-based health plan.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
2.29 The Disease Control and Health Development Project (CDCP) has been designed to help
attain the Government's health sector objectives through financial and technical support of the
MOH's strategy. The objectives of the Project are consistent with IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy for 1996-1997.
2.30 The choice among alternative interventions for project financing followed a four step
process: (i) the epidemiologic profile was assessed to determine leading causes of premature
mortality; (ii) those leading causes with clear public health characteristics (communicable
diseases that individuals would not adequately control using their private resources) were
selected as meriting public financing and project support (heart disease and injuries were ranked
much lower, for example); (iii) the availability of substantial donor support was estimated so as
to exclude well financed interventions (family planning and immunizations, for example); and
(iv) the cost-effectiveness ratios for the remaining interventions were obtained in the secondary
literature. This process led to the choice of three national disease control programs, namely TB,
malaria and HIV, all of which are cost-effective interventions, high priorities of the Government,
and are also underfinanced.
2.31  The treatment of TB by means of chemotherapy is ranked highly cost effective and is
considered a core public health intervention. Specifically, short course chemotherapy involving



- 9 -
two month hospitalization has been estimated to cost US$3 per Disability Adjusted Life Year saved
(DALY'). Treatment of malaria, another comrmunicable threat to public health, is also justified on
cost effectiveness and public health grounds, although at higher cost (US$200 per DALY in areas
of high case fatality and endemicity, as is the case in Cambodia). HIV prevention activities have
been accorded the highest public health priority, especially in the early phases of the epidemic, as in
Cambodia. Spread of the disease from the "core" risk groups, such as prostitutes and soldiers, to
the general population involves a major escalation of the epidemic and of future lives lost. Market
failure in the control of such an epidemic is widely acknowledged. Moreover, the benefit of saving
those lives and of averting the high costs to the health system of treating AIDS patients constitutes
a compelling rationale on cost-effectiveness grounds for early and large scale preventive efforts.
The epidemic in Cambodia is in just such early stages. Treatment of HIV/AIDS on the other hand
2
is not considered highly cost-effective , thus narrowing the intervention choices to preventive
measures given current medical technologies.
2.32   Several key strategic choices were agreed with the Government in order to maximize
sustainability and the impact of project investments. First, the project has opted for a two track
approach of disease control and health system strengthening. A narrower focus on disease
control would be simpler to implement centrally, but would encounter capacity and
implementation constraints at the service delivery level. On the other hand, a health service
strengthening project alone (facilities, equipment, drugs, training) would inject large quantities of
inputs into health facilities, but with no clear disease control and public health objective or
impact. Disease control programs are in fact highly dependent on the integrated service delivery
structure at the provincial level and below. Given the unexpectedly rapid development of MOH
and provincial capacities, the project will support both tracks to ensure the success of the disease
control programs and to build capacities to deliver basic health services.
2.33 Second, during project design, an analysis of alternatives concerning "least cost" issues
within the broad disease control strategies was done. For example, distribution of insecticide-
treated bednets is considered a highly promising intervention to control the disease vector, and
experiments and pilots in Cambodia have shown impressive results in reducing transmission of
the disease. Bednet distribution is thus a replacement intervention for household residual
spraying, the cost-effectiveness of which has been called into question in recent work. To tailor
the bednet strategy to Cambodia and to identify least cost approaches, two studies were
undertaken and their results incorporated in the formulation of the bednet distribution strategy of
the National Malaria Program.
2.34   Similarly, in the case of TB control, a study on patient food supplements was conducted
to estimate more accurately the minimum level of such supplementation to assure high patient
compliance with the short course chemotherapy regimen. Although the project will not finance
such costs, an effective incentive program for patient compliance is vital to the success of the TB
I  Jamison, et al, Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries, World Bank, 1993.
2   N. Prescott, Economic Analysis of Antiretroviral Policy Options in Thailand (paper presented to Third
International Conference on AIDS in Asia and the Pacific, Chiang Mai, Thailand, 1995).



- 10-
control prograrn. Based on the study, the Government agreed to provide adequate resources to
this activity at current levels of supplementation in cooperation with the World Food Program.
2.35   Third, the project will emphasize several management reforms to establish accountability
for specific health outputs and ultimately outcomes. A MOH-provincial Health Management
Agreement, limited organizational restructuring at the provincial level, and a special fund to
support program supervision and management training will be supported by the project to
improve management practices and orient the system to performance and results.
2.36  Fourth, given that the current phase of development in Cambodia is one of reconstruction
and rehabilitation, the project will support the limited reconstruction and expansion of the
publicly subsidized health system, rather than attempt to restructure the health system or its
financing. Thus, the project will not seek to implement far-reaching reforms on personnel
compensation a major issue, as it is tied to wider civil service reform efforts now underway.
However, it will be structured to support cost recovery schemes both at health centers and in the
social marketing strategy for bednet distribution. The project will also develop private sector
capacities in specialized areas where the private sector can be expected to contribute to the public
health objectives. Social marketing of impregnated bednets through private sector channels will
be supported, as will NGO and other private sector initiatives in HIV/AIDS prevention and
outreach.
2.37  Fifth, the project is structured to finance public subsidies justified on a public
finance/public good rationale. The government and the Bank agreed at the outset that control of
communicable diseases is a fundamental priority for any government, and that basic principles of
public finance and epidemiology dictate a sharp focus on strengthening the capacities of the
government to exert an impact on the severe public health problems in malaria, TB, and HIV.
Thus the project will not support tertiary hospitals, sophisticated equipment used in the treatment
of non-communicable diseases, or training of highly specialized medical personnel.
2.38  Finally, the project has been costed based upon a programmatic approach. First, the
government assessed likely donor and budget flows to the three priority programs and made a
decision on which of its priorities merited ITF financing3. Costs were estimated based on the
total needs for the Government's public health programs in those project supported areas.
Available financing from the government and donors has been estimated for these same
programs, and financing gaps were then calculated. The ITF-assisted project is costed to fill
these gaps. Primary care priorities, such as maternal and child care, family planning,
immunizations and nutrition will be assisted indirectly by the health strengthening component,
and are also receiving considerable support from other donors.
3  The project will be financed by the Interim Trust Fund (ITF), and IDA will serve as administrator of the ITF.



3. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
3.1   Project Objectives. The project aims to support the Government of Cambodia in
pursuing two of its principal health sector objectives: (i) reduce death and sickness from
preventable diseases, especially malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS; and (ii) rehabilitate the health
system infrastructure so as to deliver basic health services and disease control programs more
effectively down to the community level.
3.2   Project Scope.  To achieve these objectives the project will have the following
components:
(a)   National Program Support for the malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS control
programs, including provision of (i) drugs and laboratory supplies;
(ii) impregnated bednets; (iii) training; (iv) logistical support; and (v) technical
assistance in order to expand and increase the impact of these programs.
(b)   Basic Health Strengthening including investments in (i) the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of first and referral-level facilities; (ii) medical equipment and
furniture; (iii) essential drugs; (iv) in-service training; and (v) MOH
strengthening.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component I. National Program Support
(US$13.0 million equivalent estimated base cost)
3.3   The project would support three national health programs, namely malaria, tuberculosis
and HIV/AIDS. In all cases, ITF financing is being directed towards areas where available
financing from the Government and other donors falls short of projected needs. Since the project
will cover the estimated total financing gap of these national programs, the geographic coverage
of this component is effectively nationwide. The parallel ADB supported Basic Health Services
Project will provide the necessary health strengthening investments in five additional provinces,
thus enhancing the impact of the three disease control programs nationally.
National Tuberculosis Program (US$3.0 million equivalent estimated base cost)
3.4   The overall objective of this sub-component is to assist the NTP (see Annex 1) in its
efforts to reduce tuberculosis prevalence by sustaining (i) a yearly combined cure rate and
therapy completion rate of at least 85 percent, and (ii) a sustained yearly relapse rate of less than
5 percent. Specifically, the sub-component would: (a) improve the quality and accessibility of
tuberculosis services in health centers and referral hospitals, including case diagnosis and



- 12 -
management; and (b) strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Anti-Tuberculosis
Center (CENAT), through improved management, training, and research.
3.5   The total financing base cost requirement for the NTP throughout the period 1996-2000 is
estimated to be US$9.3 million base cost. Other major financing for the program is expected
from the Government, WHO, JICA and the World Food Program (WFP). Under the project, the
following activities will be supported:
Disease Management
3.6   Improvements will be made to laboratories at referral hospitals and health centers with
TB ward facilities to increase the capability for and accuracy of TB diagnosis. Inputs would
consist of diagnostic equipment (primarily microscopes), reagents and supplies.  Where
laboratories are established in referral hospitals, the TB and malaria laboratory services will be
integrated. In full referral hospitals, radiology equipment and additional TB beds will be
supplied under Health Strengthening (Component II). TB drugs will also be supplied under
Component II.
Program Management
3.7   Support will be provided to CENAT in the form of (a) staff training including short
courses in drug treatment and program supervision and short-termn overseas courses; (b) technical
assistance; (c) office renovation and upgrading; (d) office equipment; and (e) vehicles for
provincial level supervision.
3.8   Three different training courses will be supported: the bi-annual NTP meeting with
approximately 100 participants; the short-course chemotherapy seminar conducted five times
each year with approximately 80 participants; and workshops conducted five times each year
with about 40 participants. In addition, the travel and per diem costs of CENAT staff traveling to
the provinces four times each year for training and supervision will be covered. International
training activities include participation in the meeting of the International Union Against
Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, usually held in Europe, the regional tuberculosis control
meetings (Thailand, Vietnam), and overseas courses in TB control and epidemiology.
3.9   Technical assistance will consist of a national program advisor and a laboratory advisor.
To date, these positions have been financed by WHO and JICA on a full-time basis. This
support is ending at the end of 1997, after which the project will support the cost on a-6 month
basis in 1998, and four months per year thereafter.
Evaluation and Research
3.10 Four types of epidemiologic survey will be financed: a national TB prevalence survey, a
tuberculin skin test survey every five years, a drug-resistance survey each year, and an HIV
infection survey among TB patients each year. Per diem costs and equipment are included in the
financing of the surveys.



- 13 -
3.11  Food requirements for TB patients are included in the costs of the national program.
However, these costs will be financed by the Government and the WFP, not by ITF.
Malaria Control Program (US$3.5 million equivalent estimated base cost)
3.12  The overall objective of this component is to support the CNM in implementing the
National Malaria Program which aims to reduce malaria transmission and case mortality and
morbidity through a treatment and community-based preventive program (see Annex 2).
Specifically, the component would (i) improve the access to early, accurate diagnosis and
prompt, effective treatment of malaria; (ii) expand the community-level use of impregnated
mosquito nets in high and medium risk areas; (iii) support pilot testing of a social marketing
approach for impregnated mosquito nets; and (iv) increase the capacity of the CNM to manage,
supervise and monitor the program.
3.13  The total base cost financing for the NMP for the period 1996-2000 is estimated to be
US$11.9 million. Major financing for the program is expected from WHO, EU, ODA and
AusAID. The project will support the following activities:
Disease Management
3.14 Financing in the area of disease management will assist the CNM to expand diagnostic
and treatment services into more peripheral areas. Inputs include microscopes and laboratory
equipment for referral hospitals and selected health centers.  Where feasible, integrated
laboratories will be established which carry out TB and malaria diagnosis, as well as other
laboratory tests. The supply of laboratory equipment under the project has, therefore, been
rationalized to take into account existing stock and shared usage across programs. Anti-malarial
drugs will also be supplied and are budgeted under the Health Strengthening Component.
Vector Control
3.15  A key objective of the NMP is to expand and evaluate the use of insecticide-treated
mosquito nets, through both public channels and development of a social marketing strategy
implemented by the private sector and NGOs (see Annex 2). The project would support this
initiative by financing (a) mosquito nets, insecticide and basic equipment for net treatment (if not
funded by other donors); (b) vehicles (to be shared with other disease control programs);
(c) training; (d) IEC materials; (e) operations budget for implementation; and (f) operations
research in alternative, cost-effective personal protection methods, IEC strategies, cost recovery
schemes and alternative distribution strategies. Details of the program strategy and its phasing
are provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
Program Management
3.16 Support will be provided to CNM in the form of (a) staff training; (b) technical
assistance; (c) facility renovation and upgrading; (d) office equipment; and (e) vehicles
(motorcycles) for program supervision at the provincial level.



- 14-
3.17  Training to be supported includes training of trainers programs, short courses for health
workers in malaria treatment and control, and CNM staff training, including foreign scholarships,
in areas such as information, education and communication, health policy and management,
medical sociology, parasitology/entomology and epidemiology.
Evaluation and Research
3.18  Current NMP strategies and activities are based on limited information. The expanded
interventions that are to be supported will require more effort in evaluation and operational
research if they are to have the desired impact. Financing will therefore be provided for a series
of evaluation and research studies, including evaluations of in vivo drug resistance, expanding
the use of artemesinin based anti-malarials, vector prevalence and mosquito biting habits, malaria
parasite prevalence, the impact of impregnated mosquito nets, social marketing, and operational
research into rapid antigen test kits and examination of malaria during pregnancy and early
childhood.
HIV/AIDS Program (US$6.5 million equivalent estimated base cost)
3.19  The objective of this sub-component is to counter the spread of the HIV virus. Assistance
will be provided to increase the staff and financial resource base of the National AIDS Office
(NAO) so as to enhance its ability to provide the overall guidance and management of the
HIV/AIDS program. Providing direction and leadership to the program and coordinating donor
and NGO contributions will improve a situation marked by a matrix of initiatives, undertaken
with good intentions but lacking coordination and possibly sustainability.
3.20  Ultimately, the Bank's support for the HIV/AIDS program is expected to contribute to
reduction in the transmission rate thus limiting the spread of the virus. Evidence from other
countries indicates that such an outcome is possible through effecting behavior change. It is
known to require an intensive effort and to take time. Achieving this objective will result in
diminished morbidity and mortality among the working population, reduce child mortality and
the number of orphans and lower the considerable direct and indirect financial burden of an
unchecked epidemic. The total base cost financing for the HIV/AIDS program for the period
1996-2000 is estimated to be US$ 10 million.
3.21  The project will support the key elements of a national strategy to address the problem
both at the country and provincial level through the following activities:
Institutional Development
3.22 National Level. The National AIDS Office will be strengthened through the provision of
(i) supplies and equipment, including communication equipment; (ii) training; (iii) technical
assistance; and (iv) logistical and financial support for supervision of national activities for
which the NAO will be directly responsible, as well as of provincial AIDS programs (see
Annex 3). Travel to attend international meetings about HIV/AIDS and STDs will be provided.
Technical assistance will be provided to support program management and implementation and
related activities on a declining basis over the life of the project.



- 15-
3.23  Provincial Level. Support in the form of supplies, equipment and motorcycles will be
provided for provincial HIV/AIDS programs to increase their capacity to implement and
supervise AIDS program activities, including sentinel surveillance activities, monitoring NGO
programs funded out of the Small Grants Programs, peer education activities and supervising
counseling services at the provincial blood banks.
Prevention Programs
3.24 Information, Education and Communication. The project will support a broad and
intensive program of ensuring the population is well informed about the nature of the AIDS
epidemic and how personal risk may be minimized. It is expected that much of the creative work
which this entails, such as preparing radio and TV spots, will be contracted out to the private
sector. Similarly, the actual broadcasting of prepared material will be undertaken by private
radio and TV stations in addition to Government channels. The resources for this program will
be managed through the NAO. A media director and supporting staff will be hired by the NAO
to assist the NAO with its responsibility for managing the IEC program. Technical assistance
will be provided to assist in the preparation of communication strategies and advise on message
content and programming.
3.25  Blood Transfusion Services.  To ensure that the blood supply remains HIV-free,
financing will be provided for a supply of testing reagents for HIV screening in those centers
already established and also for in-service training and a quality control program. Selected staff
at the National Blood Transfusion Center and the provincial level will receive training in
counseling for donors found to be HIV+. Assistance will also be provided for the establishment
of a further 8 provincial blood transfusion centers (Kandal, Koh Kong, Mundalkiri, Preah Vihear,
Prey Veng, Rattanankiri, Sihanoukville, and Stung Treng).
3.26 Risk Behavior Reduction:
(a)   Outreach Program. The NAO currently administers an outreach program to
raise AIDS awareness. This program will be expanded with project support for
the first two years. During negotiations, agreement was reached that program
performance will be evaluated and the evaluation report submitted to IDA not
later than December 31, 1997. Further support for outreach activities will be
made available from unallocated project funds, provided the evaluation is fully
satisfactory (para 7.1 (g)). Financing will be made available for motorcycles for
outreach workers, and supplies such as T-shirts for the peer educators trained by
the outreach workers; and a program of workshops for the outreach workers,
which will include counseling skills. A program of central-level support will be
initiated and technical assistance will be provided to assist with program
development.  Study tours to neighboring countries will enhance program
effectiveness through observing alternative approaches and networking with
colleagues. An incentive program will be maintained for peer educators and
outreach workers.



- 16 -
(b)   Condom Promotion. Condoms are successfully socially marketed throughout
Cambodia, and the project will not support this activity. However, limited
support will be provided for condom supplies used for special activities, such as
the outreach program and STD clinics where condoms are initially provided free
to commercial sex workers and patients.
Treatment Program for Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)
3.27  The National Center for Dermatology and Venereology will be strengthened to enable it
to perform more adequately its function as a national referral center for STDs and as a core
training center. To accomplish this aim, the training and laboratory facilities will be expanded
and upgraded accompanied by a program of staff improvement both at the laboratory and clinical
levels. The core staff will be responsible for introducing the syndromic approach to STD
diagnosis and management through a systematic program of training trainers at the provincial
AIDS office, who will become responsible for conducting training for provincial and district
health staff. This will be supported with technical assistance and resources to conduct specific
epidemiological and other studies related to STD management. At the provincial level, five
additional STD provincial referral clinics will be established at Kampong Speu, Kampong Thom,
Kampot/Kep, Kratie and Rattanakiri. Developing activities among private sector providers will
be entrusted to NGOs through the Small Grants Program.
Monitoring, Research and Evaluation
3.28  The sentinel surveillance program will be sustained throughout the life of the project on
an annual basis. A behavioral surveillance system, which will determine whether behavior
change is occurring, will be introduced on a trial basis at a limited number of sites. For ongoing
program monitoring and evaluation, resources for studies and operational research will be
established to be used in a flexible manner and in response to identified problems and needs. An
annual program evaluation will be undertaken through a workshop using technical assistance.
Small Grants Program
3.29  A fund will be established under the NAO to provide grant financing for HIV/AIDS-
related activities to be undertaken by the NGO community/private sector. It is anticipated that
these resources will largely be directed towards local Cambodian NGOs. Identification of
activities will be a two way process, by the NGOs themselves and by the NAO program which
may require NGO capacity to carry out Government policy and program interventions. While
the fund will be managed by the NAO, the decisions on grant awards will be subject to approval
by a Project Grant Committee, charged with reviewing and approving proposals for Grants
submitted by prospective Grantees. The proposed operational polices and procedures of the
Project Grants Program and management arrangements for this committee are detailed in Annex
3. During negotiations the government provided assurances to appoint an HIVWAIDS Project
Grant Committee not later than January 31, 1997, with responsibilities and membership
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7. 1 (s)).



- 17-
Component II. Health Service Strengthening
(US$18.1 million eguivalent estimated base cost)
3.30  In order to ensure the effectiveness of the malaria, tuberculosis, and HIV/AIDS programs,
the overall health delivery system in which these programs operate and on which they depend for
implementation needs to be strengthened. Under this component, the project will support
investments to upgrade the Ministry of Health and its basic health service delivery apparatus at
the provincial level and below and to restore acceptable standards of facilities, equipment, and
essential drug supply. Basic management procedures will be also introduced to improve
performance and accountability within the public health system (see para. 5.4).
3.31   The national Health Coverage Plan, according to which the distribution of facilities,
equipment, staff and services will be rationalized by population, epidemiologic patterns, special
access conditions, and affordability, provides a sound framework for planning and phasing the
health strengthening component. The Government's immediate objective is to increase the flow
of resources to the peripheral level so as to establish an efficient district health system that
provides communities with accessible and quality health care. In keeping with this policy,
project financing will predominantly be directed to upgrading health centers and referral
hospitals.
3.32 During the transitional phase while the Health Coverage Plan is being implemented, in
effect, four categories of health facilities would exist at the district level and below: health
centers which offer the minimum package of services; district hospitals which would operate as
health centers in the future, but would maintain their TB diagnosis and treatment capacity; basic
referral hospitals which would support essential public health programs but would offer only
limited surgical services; and full referral hospitals which would provide services corresponding
to the full complementary package of services as defined under the Health Coverage Plan.
3.33  Selection of Provinces and Facilities for Upgrading.  Due to the widespread
destruction and neglect of health infrastructure, the total needs for health facility upgrading are
high, and well exceed the capacity of the MOH to staff, equip, supply and manage over five
years. Therefore, a set of criteria was developed to prioritize provinces for project investment.
The five criteria are: (i) disease incidence and prevalence (TB and malaria), (ii) management
capacity, (iii) accessibility, (iv) population size, and (v) support from the ADB Basic Health
Services Project (see Annex 4). Using the above methodology, a practical phased program of
construction and support was developed for ten priority provinces in two phases (I and II). The
six phase I provinces (upgrading to begin in the first year of implementation) are Battambang,
Kampot/Kep, Kandal, Kompong Speu, Phnom Penh and Siem Reap. The four phase II provinces
(upgrading to begin in the second year of implementation) are Kampong Thom, Kratie, Pursat
and Rattanakiri. The project will support the needs of this program over a five year period,
beginning in late 1996.



- 18-
3.34  The project will support the following activities:
Facilities Upgrading (US$10.2 million eguivalent estimated base cost)
3.35  The project will support investments in the construction and rehabilitation of 26 referral
hospitals and 230 health centers in the ten provinces. 57 health centers (including 26 with TB
ward renovations), 6 basic referral hospitals and 15 full referral hospitals would be rehabilitated,
173 health centers would be newly constructed and 2 basic referral hospitals and 3 full referral
hospitals would undergo major renovations (see Annex 4 for details by province and phasing
arrangements).
Medical Equipment, Furniture and Transportation (US$2.9 million equivalent estimated base
cost)
3.36 The Health Coverage Plan outlines the minimum package of activities to be provided at
the first level health center as well as at the referral hospital. Using this as a basis, and in
consultation with relevant donors, MOH has identified a standard list of. equipment to be
provided under the project which would support the core public health activities in these
facilities. Lists of equipment to be provided for the health centers and referral hospitals under
the project are provided in Annex 5. The quantities of equipment and furniture to be provided at
each level have been adjusted to reflect expected inputs from other donors. The delivery of
equipment will be synchronized with the phasing plan for facility upgrading.
Essential Drugs (US$2.3 million equivalent estimated base cost)
3.37  The national needs for essential drugs, including those needed for the treatment of
tuberculosis, malaria and STDs was estimated, based on an agreed list, and the projected costs
were matched with the expected government and donor financing. The project will provide
funding at the national level to cover the financing gap. The list of drugs to be supplied is
provided in Annex 6.
In-Service Training (US$0.2 million eguivalent estimated base cost)
3.38  Substantial donor support has already been committed for in-service training, particularly
through an ADB Basic Skills Development Project and a WHO/UNDP/ODA Health Systems
Strengthening Project. It is estimated that the total flow of donor funds into in-service training
will be at least US$5.3 million over the next five years. Based on an analysis of the training
needs and costs for health staff throughout the country, it appears that in the medium-term no
additional donor resources are required for training of basic health staff. However, there is an
urgent need to train surgeons, obstetricians and anesthetists to provide emergency obstetric and
surgical care. An MOH committee is in the process of designing a national in-service training
strategy in obstetrics/surgery for the country. A one year curriculum will be developed and
training institutes identified and strengthened by the end of 1996. The project will directly
support the training of two surgeons/obstetricians and one anesthetist in each of the full referral
hospitals upgraded under the project. During project implementation, staff of the MOH and
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will work closely with the institutions and NGOs involved in



- 19 -
training to ensure that the management and in-service training needs of other health staff in the
project provinces are met.
MOH Strengthening (US$2.6 million equivalent estimated base cost)
3.39  The Disease Control Project, and the ADB Basic Health Services Project, are the first
major investment projects in support of the MOH and will require some strengthening of the
MOH to coordinate and manage. The purpose of this sub-component, therefore, is to establish an
effective coordination mechanism and management team within the MOH; build-up skills in
areas such as procurement, disbursement, financial management and accounting; and improve the
capacity of MOH and the provincial directorates in program management, including field
supervision, data collection, progress monitoring and reporting.
3.40  The health centers specified in para 3.32 above are new types of facilities, and very few
currently exist in the country. Health staff are not used to working in and operating this type of
facility nor are they used to working as a facility based health service team at anything below the
current district hospitals. Therefore, a program of training, operational support, and intensive
supervision needs to be provided to each health center staff team at the time of commissioning of
the facility. The initial development and implementation of this process will be provided in a
central technical assistance contract, but the effort should be integrated into provinces' and the
MOH Training Division's normal operations as quickly as possible. This effort should draw on
the experience of NGOs who have constructed and commissioned the few health centers which
exist. This effort should also be supported by provincial health advisors and other managerial
technical assistance provided to the MOH, particularly the Accelerated District Development
scheme support. The agreement on quantities and level of effort for this commissioning process
should form part of each province's annual Health Management Agreements (see Chapter 5,
Section B).
3.41  To achieve these objectives, the project will finance: (i) the running costs of a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) in MOH, including technical assistance, fellowships and operational
support; (ii) office equipment and communication equipment to link the center and the provinces;
(iii) limited renovation and construction of MOH administration buildings and the Department of
Pharmacy; (iv) a baseline survey to establish current health status and performance indicators
(ADB will support a final national evaluation survey); (v) a 2.5 year contract for technical
assistance and operational costs for initial implementation of health centers commissioning (the
initial recurrent costs and all the costs after the middle of the third year will be the responsibility
of the Government); and (vi) a provincial Supervision Fund to cover the travel, per diem costs
and office costs of project supervision within the 10 project provinces.
3.42  The project will support pilot activities in two areas with cost recovery activities namely:
the social marketing of bednets and the training and management contract for Phase I health
centers. During negotiations agreement was reached to implement by January 31, 1997, through
MOH, a national policy satisfactory to IDA on the collection of service fees in national health
facilities including the policy on retention of fees, the policy on setting and adjusting the
schedule offees, and the allowable expenditure offee revenues (para. 7.1 (r)).



- 20 -
4. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT
A. COST ESTIMATES
4.1     Summary of Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at Cambodian Riel
87.7 billion, or US$35.6 million equivalent including contingencies. The total costs are
summarized by project components in Table 4.1, and by expenditure categories in Table 4.2.
Table 4.1: Summary of Project Cost by Component
% Total
(Riel Million)              (US$ Million)        Base
Local     Foreign     Total    Local  Forelgn  Total   Costs
A. National Programs
1. TB Control                       3,151.8    4,151.7    7,303.5     1.3     1.7     3.0       10
2. Malaria Control                  2,929.7    5,784.4    8,714.1     1.2     2.3     3.5       11
3. HIV/AIDS Control                 8,208.6    7,731.1   15,939.7     3.3     3.1     6.5       21
Subtotal National Programs           142T.      17,667     31,957.3     5.8     7.2     1
B. Health Service Strengthen
1. Facility Upgrading              17,804.0    7,369.2   25,173.1     7.2     3.0    10.2       33
2. Equipment & Transportation        569.5    6,478.4    7,048.0      0.2     2.6     2.9        9
3. Essential Drug Supply             277.2    5,266.8    5,544.0      0.1     2.1     2.3        7
4. In-service Training               393.8       98.5       492.3     0.2     0.0     0.2        1
5. MOH Strengthening                2,620.1    3,723.1    6,343.2     1.1     1.5     2.6        8
Subtotal Health Service Strengthen   21,664.6                                                    3 2,96  44,600.6  -.  9.3    181 5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 35,954.7   40,603.    76,557---7.9 14.     1      TT 311    T100
Physical Contingencies              1,622.9    1,944.0    3,567.0     0.7     0.8     1.4        5
Price Contingencies                 4,868.3    2,671.3    7,539.6     2.0     1.1     3.1       10
Total PROJECT COSTS                  42,445.    45,218.5   87,64.    17.        18T.    3S6      115
4.2     Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions at 5 percent of base costs (US$1.4 million equivalent) and for inflation at 10
percent of base costs (US$3.1 million equivalent) based on the standard Bank-wide guideline (for
foreign inflation) and regional guideline (for domestic inflation).
4.3     Taxation. The Government has decided to exempt all the imported goods and consultant
services purchased under the project from  duties and taxes.  Total project costs for these
categories are, therefore, calculated net of duties and taxes. During negotiations, confirmation
was obtainedfor this government exemption (para. 7.2 (a)). Local taxes may be levied to civil
works at the rates of 3-5 percent. The project cost, therefore, allocates 10 percent of civil works
cost to the Government contribution to cover any possible local taxes.



- 21 -
Table 4.2: Summary of Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
% Total
(Riel Million)               (US$ Million)        Base
Local     Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign  Total   Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                    836.2    15,887.3   16,723.5     0.3      6.4     6.8      22
B. Drug                         285.5    5,424.1     5,709.6     0.1     2.2      2.3       7
C. Civil Works                17,660.0    7,568.6   25,228.6     7.2     3.1    10.2       33
D. Local Training              3,690.3     922.6    4,612.8      1.5     0.4      1.9       6
E. Foreign Training              88.1     1,674.8    1,763.0     0.0     0.7      0.7       2
F. Local Consultant            1,070.2     267.5     1,337.7     0.4     0.1      0.5       2
G. Foreign Consultant           245.4    4,661.7    4,907.1      0.1     1.9      2.0       6
H. Studies                    4,552.4     1,138.1    5,690.5     1.8     0.5      2.3       7
I. Grant                        862.4      862.4     1,724.8     0.4     0.4      0.7       2
Total Investment Costs          29,290.4   38,407.2   67,697.5    11.9    15.6    27.5       88
II. Incremental Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Cost              3,453.0     863.3    4,316.3      1.4      0.4     1.8       6
B. Supplies                     243.3      243.3       486.6     0.1     0.1      0.2       1
C. Prov. Superv. Cost           275.8       68.9       344.7     0.1     0.0      0.1        -
D. Maintenance for Equipment    587.5      587.5    1,175.1      0.2     0.2      0.5       2
E. Maintenance for Civil Works  1,267.1    223.6     1,490.7     0.5     0.1      0.6       2
F. Staff Remuneration           837.6      209.4    1,047.0      0.3     0.1      0.4       1
Total Incremental Recurrent      6,664.3    2,196.1    8,860.4     2.7      0.9     3.6      12
Total BASELINE COSTS            35,954.7   40,603.2   76,557.9    14.6    16.5    31.1       100
Physical Contingencies         1,622.9    1,944.0    3,567.0     0.7     0.8      1.4       5
Price Contingencies           4,868.3    2,671.3    7,539.6      2.0     1.1      3.1      10
Total PROJECT COSTS             42,445.9   45,218.5   87,664.4    17.2    18.4    35.6       115
4.4     Foreign  Exchange  Components.   Direct and  indirect foreign  exchange  costs are
estimated at about 52 percent of base costs. The foreign exchange components for various
expenditure categories are as follows: civil works, 30 percent; equipment and vehicles, 95
percent; drugs, 95 percent; foreign technical assistance, 95 percent; local technical assistance, 20
percent; overseas training, 95 percent; local training, 20 percent; studies, 20 percent; grant, 50
percent; operating cost, 20 percent; and supplies, 50 percent.
4.5    Incremental Recurrent Cost. The investment in civil works and equipment have been
carefully designed to avoid an unnecessary recurrent cost burden on the government (see
Chapter 6). Most of the civil works are renovation or upgrading of existing facilities, and most
equipment provided under the project involve low-cost maintenance. The costs of maintenance
for civil works (US$0.6 million, or 2 percent of baseline cost) and for equipment (US$0.5
million, or 2 percent of baseline cost) will be fully  financed  by  the Government.   The
Government will also provide salaries for disease control staff (US$0.4 million, or 1 percent of
baseline cost). However, the three communicable disease control programs require substantial
field work, such as IEC activities, patient follow-up, mosquito net distribution, data collection
and monitoring; also each of the ten project provinces will conduct field visits down to commune
and village levels to supervise the project activities. These represent an extra burden of recurrent
costs during the life of project implementation, which will be financed on a declining basis under
the categories of operating cost and supplies (US$2.0 million, or 7 percent of baseline cost), and
the category of provincial supervision costs (US$0.1 million ).



- 22 -
B. FINANCING
4.6     The estimated total project cost of US$35.6 million equivalent, net of taxes, would be
financed by:
(a)     a local counterpart funding of US$5.2 million equivalent, or 14.5 percent of the
total project cost, from the Government;
(b)     an ITF credit of US$30.4 million equivalent net of taxes, or 85.5 percent of the
total project cost, from ITF.
4.7     The project financing plan by expenditure categories is summarized in Table 4.3, and by
project components and year in Annex 10. The source of IDA administered funds shown in
Table 4.3 will be the ITF. The overall program financing plan, including donor contribution, is
available in the project implementation plan.
Table 4.3: Financin! Plan
Intemational
Government of    Development
(US$ Million)                            Cambodia         Association         Total
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                            0.5     6.2      7.1    93.8       7.5    21.2
B. Drug                                 0.0       -      2.7   100.0       2.7     7.5
C. Civil Works                          1.3    11.0    10.8    89.0    12.1    34.1
D. Local Training                       0.2    10.4      2.0    89.6       2.2     6.1
E. Foreign Training                     0.0       -      0.8   100.0       0.8     2.3
F. Local Consultant                     0.0     2.4      0.6    97.6       0.6     1.8
G. Foreign Consultant                   0.0       -      2.2   100.0       2.2     6.2
H. Studies                              0.0       -      2.5   100.0       2.5     7.0
I. Grant                                  -       -      0.7   100.0       0.7     2.0
Total Investment Costs                    2.0     6.5    29.3    93.5    31.3    88.1
II. Incremental Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Cost                       1.3    62.0      0.8    38.0       2.0     5.7
B. Supplies                             0.0    15.0      0.2    85.0       0.2     0.6
C. Prov. Superv. Costs                  0.0    15.0      0.1    85.0       0.2     0.5
D. Maintenance for Equipment            0.6   100.0        -        -      0.6     1.6
E. Maintenance for Civil Works          0.7   100.0        -        -      0.7     2.1
F. Staff Remuneration                   0.5   100.0        -        -      0.5     1.4
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs         3.1    73.8      1.1    26.2       4.2    11.9
Total Disbursement                        5.2    14.5    30.4    85.5    35.6   100.0



- 23 -
C. PROCUREMENT
4.8    The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 4.4 below:
Table 4.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Methods
Procurement Elements (US$ million)          ICB     NCB    Other   NBF    TOTAL
Civil Works                                         7.9      4.1     0.1      12.1
(7.1)   (3.7)            (10.8)
Goods
a. Equipment&Vehicles                       5.3      1.6     0.2     0.5      7.6
(5.3)   (1.6)   (0.2)             (7.1)
b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals                  2.7                               2.7
(2.7)                            (2.7)
Training, Technical Assistance & Studies
a. Training                                                  2.8     0.2      3.0
(2.7)            (2.7)
b. Technical Assistance                                      2.8              2.8
- Policy Support: $0.8 million                            (2.8)             (2.8)
- Institutional Development: $0.9 million
- Implementation Support: $1.1 million
c. Studies                                                   2.5              2.5
(2.5)            (2.5)
Grant                                                        0.7              0.7
(0.7)            (0.7)
Incremental Operating Cost & Supplies                        1.1     1.1      2.2
(1.0)            (1.0)
Provincial Supervision Costs                                 0.2              0.2
(0.1)            (0.1)
Maintenance                                                          1.3      1.3
Staff Remuneration                                                   0.5      0.5
Total                                       7.9     9.4    14.4    3.8        35.6
(7.9)   (8.7)   (13.8)           (30.4)
Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by ITF.
Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.
'Other" includes consultancy services and shopping.
'NBF": Not Bank Financed.



- 24 -
4.9   The procurement arrangements for civil works, goods and services financed by ITF
would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loan and IDA Credits, January 19954, and are described as follows:
(a)   Civil Works.  The civil works (total estimated amount of US$12.1 million
including contingencies) carried out under the project would be generally small
and simple, consisting primarily of minor or major renovation of referral hospitals
and renovations and new construction of health centers, dispersed throughout the
ten project provinces. The average construction cost for a basic referral hospital
would be US$259,000 equivalent; for a full referral hospital, it would be
US$280,000; and for a health center the cost is about US$23,000. Rehabilitation
cost would be considerably less. Considering the nature and size of the civil
works under this project, no foreign contractors are likely to be interested in
bidding for them. Tenders/bids would be invited in accordance with the following
procedures:
(i)    National  Competitive  Bidding  for  estimated  contract  values
> US$100,000.
(ii)   National Shopping for estimated contract values of US$50,000 - 100,000,
up to an aggregated amount of no more than US$3.7 million.
(iii)   Direct Contract for estimated contract values < US$50,000, up to an
aggregated amount of no more than US$0.3 million.
The National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure, acceptable to the Bank, would be used for
the majority of the civil works (up to a total amount of US$7.9 million, or 65 percent of total
civil works cost). The PCU/MOH will carry out appropriate packaging in order to manage the
NCB efficiently. A portion of civil works (up to a total amount of US$4.1 million, or 33 percent
of total civil works cost) will be carried out through National Shopping procedure with at least
three quotations from local contractors. This will apply to those facilities in remote areas where
packaging for NCB is difficult. For a small number of health centers, for which selecting
contractors through competition would be extremely difficult, direct contracting procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, would be used (up to a total amount of US$0.3 million, or about 2
percent of total civil works cost). The Bank's Standard Bidding Document for Procurement of
Civil Works (Small Contracts), January 1995 would be used by PCU/MOH in preparing the
bidding documents for civil works.5
(b)   Goods (Equipment. Vehicles, and Drugs). The costs of equipment, vehicles and
materials are estimated to be US$7.6 million, including contingencies. About 70
4   The proceeds of the ITF Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods and works
provided by nationals of and products in or supplied from, participating countries. Only consultants from
participating countries shall be eligible to provide services financed out of the proceeds of the ITF.
5  Bidding documents will reference the ITF eligibility restrictions.



- 25 -
percent of this amount, amounting to US$5.3 million, will be procured by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure.  Under ICB, domestic
manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference in bid evaluations of
15 percent of the c.i.f. costs of the competing imports or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower. About 21 percent of total equipment cost, up to an
aggregated amount of US$1.6 million with the estimated cost of US$100,000 or
less per contract, may be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedure acceptable to the Bank.  Small items or group of items costing
US$25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million or 3
percent of total equipment costs, may be procured by prudent shopping, requiring
quotations from at least three suppliers. The cost of drugs, estimated at US$2.7
million including contingencies, would be procured by ICB procedures. The
PCU/MOH will prepare the bidding documents in accordance with the Bank's
Standard Bidding document for Procurement of Goods, January 1995, and the
Standard Bidding Document for Procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines,
September 1993 (as amended to reflect the changes as per the Bank's Guidelines,
January 1995, for procurement of drugs and pharmaceuticals).'
(c)   Technical Assistance, Training. and Studies. The technical assistance (estimated
cost of US$2.8 million including contingencies) will be carried out by individual
consultants or consultant firrns hired by MOH, following the Bank's Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency.6 The training (estimated cost of US$3.0 million including
contingencies) will be carried out by the national and provincial training centers,
or other contractors. The financial input for studies, (estimated cost of US$2.5
million including contingencies) would be used to support the special surveys and
operational research that will be conducted by competent institutions or
contractors. MOH would arrange these training, survey and study tasks by
entering into an "agreement" or "contract" with the institution or contractor. Prior
to negotiations, MOH provided IDA with its standard format for such contracting
to ensure its compliance with the Bank's Guideline and the Standard Form of
6
Contract for Consulting services, June 1995 (para. 7.3)
(d)   Incremental Operating Cost & Supplies and Provincial Supervision Cost. The
incremental operating cost and supplies (estimated cost of US$2.2 million
including contingencies) would be procured through prudent shopping procedure,
requiring at least three quotations from  local suppliers.  The provincial
supervision costs (estimated cost of US$0.2 million including contingencies),
which will support small annual contracts with each provincial project unit to
cover local supervision costs, and would be procured using direct contracting
procedures acceptable to IDA.
6  Procurement of consultants will conform to ITF eligibility restrictions.



- 26 -
4.10 Procurement Prior Review. All civil works contracts with an estimated cost of
US$200,000 or more, all goods contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000 or more, and all
consulting service contracts with an estimated cost of US$100,000 or more for consulting firm
(US$50,000 for individual) would be subject to prior review by the Bank. With respect to all
consulting contracts irrespective of their values, prior review by the Bank will be required for:
(a) terms of reference; (b) single source contract regardless of value; (c) all consultant contracts
and assignments of a critical nature (because of environment safety or public health
considerations) regardless of value; (d) contract amendments valued at more than US$100,000
for firms (US$50,000 for individuals), or those that raise the total contract value to more than.
US$100,000 for firms (US$50,000 for individuals); and (e) grants more than US$5,000 per grani
agreement. This will allow prior review for approximately 80 percent of the works and goods
procured under the project.
D. DISBURSEMENT
4.11  The proposed ITF credit of US$30.4 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period
of five and half years (including a six-month period after the project completion date), by the
closing date of March 31, 2002. The disbursement percentages for each expenditure category are
summarized in Table 4.5.  The disbursement schedule and profile are in Annex  10.
Disbursements would be made against: (a) 90 percent of total expenditure of civil works; (b) 100
percent of c.i.f. cost of directly imported goods; 100 percent of ex-factory cost for locally
manufactured goods, and 85 percent of the other off-the-shelf goods procured locally; (c) 100
percent of total expenditures for training, technical assistance and studies; (d) 100 percent of
grant made by the National AIDS Office Grant Facility; (e) 85 percent of operating cost and
supplies; and (f) 85 percent of provincial supervision cost.
Table 4.5: Disbursement Categories
ITF Allocation    % of Expenditure to be
Disbursement Category        (US$ million)     Financed by the Credit
Civil Works                              10.5    90%
Goods (including equipment, vehicle,     9.4     100% of foreign expenditure and
materials and pharmaceuticals)               ex-factory local expenditure;
85% of expenditure for off-shelf items.
Training, Technical Assistance and Studies  7.9   100%
Grants                                   0.7     100%
Incremental Operating Costs              1.0      85%
and Supplies
Provincial Supervision Cost              0.1      85%
Unallocated                              0.8      NA
Total                                     30.4



- 27 -
4.12  Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for civil works
contracts with a contract value of less than US$200,000 equivalent; for goods contracts with a
contract value less than US$100,000 equivalent; for consulting services contracts with a contract
value less than US$100,000 for firms, and less than US$50,000 for individuals; for grants valued
at less than US$5,000 each; and for all expenditures for operating cost, supplies and provincial
supervision costs. All documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by PCU/MOH, and
made available for random sample review by IDA supervision missions.
4.13  A Special Account with an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million would be established
in a bank acceptable to the Association. The PCU/MOH would operate the Special Account with
due procedures for oversight by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. All the documentation
for the operation of the Special Account would be retained in PCU/MOH, and made available for
review by IDA.



- 28 -
5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. ORGANIZATION
5.1   The implementing agency for the proposed project will be the Ministry of Health.
Overall direction and guidance for the project will be provided by a high level Steering
Committee especially created to oversee the implementation of this project. The Steering
Committee will comprise of representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MOEF), the Ministry of Planning (MOP) and the Cambodia Development Council (CDC), as
well as senior staff of MOH. A Project Director, nominated by the Ministry of Health, will be a
member of the Steering Committee, and will have overall responsibility for the implementation
of the project.
5.2  In order to facilitate implementation, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set-up
within the MOH, with the support of both the World Bank and the ADB. During negotiations,
assurances were received that the PCU will be headed by a PCU Manager recruited on an
international basis by the Government and approved by the World Bank and ADB, as a condition
of effectiveness (para. 7.1 (a)). The Manager will have day-to-day responsibility for ensuring the
timely and efficient implementation of the ADB and Bank-financed projects, and for building
capacity within MOH in the areas of project administration, financial management and
procurement.  The PCU  will have a Finance and Administration Unit responsible for
procurement, disbursement and accounting for both the World Bank and ADB projects. In
addition, separate units will be established to oversee implementation of the different projects.
During negotiations, assurances were also obtained that the Chiefs of the Finance and
Administration Unit and World Bank Operations Unit and Construction Manager will be
recruited on an international basis and appointed as a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.1 (a)).
Certain operational costs of the PCU (PCU Manager, Finance and Administration Unit) will be
jointly funded by the World Bank and ADB. Details of the organizational structure of the PCU
and the terms of reference for the Steering Committee and the PCU staff are provided in
Annex 7.
5.3   The provincial health authorities will be responsible for the overall management and
supervision of project activities at the provincial level and will act as the link between the central
PCU/MOH and the operational district health system. A small Provincial Project Unit (PPU)
will be set-up within the health directorate, headed by a Provincial Project Director nominated by
the Provincial Health Director and confirmed by the MOH. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that appointment of a Provincial Project Director in each of the six Phase Iprovinces is
a condition of effectiveness and the appointment of a Provincial Project Unit Directors in each
of the remaining four Phase II project province is due by September 30, 1997 (para. 7.1 (b)).
The main functions of the PPU include (i) facilitating the timely implementation of the project in
close coordination with the MOH/PCU; (ii) ensuring the timely flow of funds, particularly travel
and per diem costs for supervision, paid out of the provincial Supervision Fund; and (iii) day-to-
day monitoring of the project. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Provincial



- 29 -
Supervision Fund agreements will be prepared, satisfactory to IDA, by June 30, 1997, and will
be entered into by September 30, 1997 for the Phase I provinces and by September 30, 1998 for
the Phase II provinces (para. 7.1 (d)). The detailed arrangements for managing the Provincial
Supervision Fund are contained in the Project Implementation Plan.
B. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
Health Management Agreements
5.4  In order to define the expectations and responsibilities of both the MOH and the
provincial authorities clearly under the Project, Health Management Agreements (HMA) would
be entered into for each of the ten provinces supported by the Health Strengthening component
(see Annex 8). The aim of instituting such agreements is to change the nature of the relationship
between the MOH and the provincial health authorities to one of mutual responsibility and
accountability, with a single overall purpose of improving performance of public sector health
services.
5.5   The HMAs would provide a framework for planning and managing the health programs
covered by the Project (TB, Malaria, HIV/AIDS, and Health Coverage Plan). They would
govern the provision of inputs by MOH to the provinces in return for provincial agreement to
attain annual targets in disease control and other areas. Commitments made by the MOH and the
Provincial Health Authorities would be clearly specified in terms of annual health objectives,
inputs, and processes with quantifiable and monitorable targets set. These annual plans would be
defined and agreed in the context of 5-year goals and outcome/impact indicators. The HMAs
would have no legal status, rather they would be used as a planning and management tool.
However, they will be monitored and evaluated and action would be taken in response to
performance. From the detailed performance indicators contained in the HMAs, a group of more
broadly indicative measures have been selected as Project Performance Indicators. These are
presented in Annex 9.
5.6   The HMAs will be formulated and agreed annually at provincial planning workshops
with the involvement of representatives from the Provincial Governors' Office, the Provincial
Health Directorate, MOH (including Ministry level representatives from the three disease control
programs) and the PCU. The provincial health advisors (PHAs) and donor organizations
assisting a given province will also be invited to the planning process and negotiations. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that no expenditures by any province for civil works or
medical equipment will be made unless the Ministry of Health and the province concerned have
entered into their respective Health Management Agreement for the first year (para. 7.1 (c)).
5.7  Ideally this type of agreement would also be made between the provinces and the
districts, but currently most districts are judged managerially too weak to undertake this type of
agreement in the early stages of the Project. As district health office capacities improve, they
could enter into sub-agreements with the provinces.



- 30 -
Implementation of National Disease Control Programs
Tuberculosis Control Program
5.8   The overall responsibility for implementation of the TB Control component rests with the
National Anti-Tuberculosis Center (CENAT). CENAT will be responsible for establishing the
policies for case management, consolidating annual project plans and budgets, monitoring
provincial TB control activities, and assisting in the preparation of project reports and
documentation. CENAT will prepare biannual TB drug forecasts by monitoring drug use and
stocks and, jointly with CMS, determine drug procurement and provincial allocations. Provincial
TB Supervisors are responsible for monitoring the distribution of TB drugs and supplies to the
district health facilities and for the supervision of TB case management. CENAT will conduct
five training sessions annually in short course chemotherapy, annual training of provincial
supervisors and arrange international training and fellowships. By the end of 1996, CENAT will
have trained staff in all facilities eligible to offer hospitalization and short course chemotherapy.
During negotiations, an understanding was reached that the government, with available donor
funding, wouldfinance the cost offood supplementation for TB patient hospitalization and, as
resources permit, for the ambulatory phase of chemotherapy (para. 7.2 (c)).
Malaria Control Program
5.9   The responsibility for the Malaria Control Program rests with the National Malaria
Center (CNM). CNM would have similar responsibilities as CENAT, that is, establishing the
policies for case management, consolidating annual project plans and budgets, monitoring
provincial malaria control activities, and assisting in the preparation of project reports and
documentation. CNM would also prepare biannual malaria drug forecasts by monitoring drug
use and stocks and, jointly with CMS, determine drug procurement and provincial allocations.
Provincial Supervisors are responsible for monitoring the malaria control program at the district
level and organizing training. In addition, over the life of the project, CNM staff will manage
and conduct studies of vivo and in vitro drug resistance, drug efficacy, malaria prevalence, vector
control (bednet) effectiveness, bednet social marketing and entomological studies. Research will
be carried out to test antigen test kits, examination of malaria during pregnancy, and community
based epidemiologic assessments of bednet effectiveness.
5.10  The bednet program, including the social marketing pilot activity, would be managed at
the central level by the CNM under the leadership of a Bednet Program Manager. The Program
Manager will have overall responsibility for planning and managing CNM support for
implementation at provincial, district and commune levels, and for program evaluation. A
National Bednet Steering Committee comprised of CNM, donors and, relevant NGOs, will also
be established for defining policy, standard setting and identifying resource requirements.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that government will furnish IDA with a social
marketing and national bednet distribution and treatment strategy (including a cost recovery
proposal) by January 31, 1997for IDA review, and thereafter promptly carry out an action plan
acceptable to IDA (para. 7.1 (o)). Key partners in program implementation are ODA, WHO and
NGOs already implementing bednet projects in the country.



- 31 -
HIVIAIDS Program
5.11  Overall responsibility for the management and implementation of the HIV/AIDS
component will rest with the National AIDS Office located within the Ministry of Health. The
director of the NAO will be the HIV/AIDS and STD component Project Manager. The status of
the NAO will be raised to that of a department within MOH and additionally, a finance and an
administrative officer will be appointed to this department. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from government that these two appointments and the elevation of NAO to
departmental status will take place not later than September 30, 1997 (para. 7.1 (f)). Technical
assistance will be provided on an intermittent basis to assist with overall project management and
implementation.
5.12 The HIV/AIDS Grant Fund will be managed through a Project Grants Committee
consisting of the director of the NAO (chairperson), a representative of the MOH/PCU and other
representation to be determined. The Committee will solicit applications to the Fund, review
these applications and reach decisions about the content of activities to be supported and the
resources to be allocated. The Committee will also be responsible for reviewing progress and
evaluating results of activities undertaken through this Fund.  Details of the proposed
management structure and operational procedures of the Fund are provided in Annex 3.
5.13  The Project will finance several elements of the blood safety effort under the MOH Blood
Transfusion Services. Training of counselors to notify HIV positive blood donors will require
first an agreement on notification and counseling protocols progress on which is well advanced
between the MOH, the International Commission for the Red Cross and other donors.
Implementation of Health Service Strengthening
Civil Works
5.14  The MOH/PCU will be responsible for initiating, monitoring and ensuring that correct
implementation procedures are followed during all stages of civil works implementation. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the criteria to be usedfor the selection of health centers
and referral hospitals for upgrading (para. 7.1 (p)). The PCU will contract with qualified
personnel to prepare technical specifications, supervise construction and disbursements, and be
responsible for certification of completion. During negotiations, assurances were receivedfrom
government that final implementation arrangements for contracting and supervision of civil
works would be established by December 31, 1996 for Phase I provinces and by December 31,
1997 for Phase II provinces (para. 7.1 (i)).
5.15  Details of the implementation arrangements are provided in the Project Implementation
Plan. In summary, the PCU would select consultants, in accordance with Bank guidelines, to
inspect existing facilities and prepare the final design proposals, based on the PCU models, for
MOH/PCU approval.  Once approved, the PCU initiates the preparation of the bidding
documents. Tenders/bids are then invited by the PCU in accordance with agreed procurement
guidelines. Contract supervision will be carried out by the consultants who will report monthly



- 32 -
to the PCU/Construction Manager. The PPU will also monitor the work on a random basis and
report to the MOH/PCU.
5.16  The importance and form of an institutionalized maintenance and repair strategy for civil
works was agreed with the MOH during preparation. During negotiations, assurances were
receivedfrom government that a senior technicalfacilities manager will be appointed no later
than September 30, 1997 in the Phase I provinces and not later than September 30, 1998 in the
Phase II provinces (para. 7.1 (e)).  The facilities manager will be responsible for the
management and supervision of regular and preventive maintenance of all health facilities in that
province. He/she will have a budget specifically for maintenance which will be used to contract
reliable local contractors to do the work.
Equipment, Essential Drugs and In-Service Training
5.17 Both medical equipment and drugs would be procured by the MOH/PCU, in close
collaboration with the Procurement Unit at the Department of Pharmacy.  Storage and
distribution would be done through the logistics system of the Central Medical Stores (CMS) of
the Ministry of Health. This logistics system is considered adequate to meet the needs of the
project, given the recent expansion in warehouse and trucking capacity under a previous IDA
project. Basic equipment provided under the project would predominantly be low maintenance.
Maintenance of more complex equipment, such as X-ray machines, would be written into the
purchase contract. In addition, training in the routine maintenance of hospital equipment will be
provided to technicians in the referral hospitals upgraded under the project. Monitoring and
control of drug and equipment supplies would be done through the existing computerized
tracking system, so as to avoid irregular supplies. Indicators would be set and their progress
tracked over time to monitor and improve the planning and timeliness of the procurement and
distribution of medical supplies, drugs and equipment.
5.18 During negotiations, assurances were obtained from government that the health centers
and referral hospitals upgraded under the project be adequately staffed (para. 7.1 (q)). During
negotiations, assurances were also obtainedfrom Government that a national in-service training
strategy be implemented by March 31, 1997. Moreover, a time bound plan for the training of
health staff at the health centers and referral hospitals upgraded under the project will be
furnished to IDA by March 31, 1997, and promptly thereafter, the government will carry out
such a plan taking into account IDA's comments (para. 7.1 (n)). Such a plan would include
disease control training supported by the project. The MOH/PCU will be responsible for
identifying the medical personnel for the one year training in obstetrics/surgery and
anesthesiology. The training will take place at national and provincial institutes selected by the
MOH Committee on surgical training.
C. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING
5.19 The total project account would be managed by the PCU in the MOH, and separate
accounts for project activities would also be maintained by each province (for the expenses
eligible for reimbursement under the provincial supervision cost category) and national institutes



- 33 -
in accordance with sound accounting practices. The project accounts would reflect all financial
transactions during the project implementation period for both the IDA Credit and the
counterpart funding in two books, one by project components and one by expenditure categories.
5.20  Project accounts would be audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (1992). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that audits of project-related financial records and accounts,
including the Special Account, will be undertaken in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.  Audited accounts and financial
statements, in a format agreed with IDA, and including audited Statement of Expenditures, will
be sent to IDA within six months after the end of each Government fiscal year (para. 7.1 6)). In
addition, at negotiations, assurances were obtained that Technical Performance Audits of HMAs
will be carried out on a random basis beginning in January 1998 (para. 7.1 (h)).
D. PROJECT MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
5.21  The PCU will be responsible for monitoring project implementation progress and
performance. A baseline survey would be conducted in the first year of implementation to
establish project performance indicator measures. The Health Management Agreements would
set out implementation targets against which project performance will be monitored. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that monitoring of these targets would be carried
out on a semi-annual basis by the PCU, commencing Fiscal Year 1997, which will then report to
IDA on (i) progress on major activities; and (ii) achievement or production of agreed outputs
(para. 7.2 (b)). The Project Performance Indicators in Annex 9 provide the framework for the
semi-annual reports, the format of which should be acceptable to IDA. There will be an annual
review of HMA performance at the provincial level before planning the following year's
agreement. During negotiations, assurances were received that an annual project budget will be
submitted by the PCU to IDA by November 30 of each year in the Project, beginning November
30, 1996 (para. 7.1 (m)).
5.22 During negotiations, assurances were received that by March 31, 1999, the MOH will
submit a comprehensive mid-term review report evaluating project performance based on the
documented experience of the monitoring, as well as at least one impact study and the technical
performance audits. Based on this review, discussions will be held with IDA by June 30, 1999,
as to the need for any changes in project design and the implementation targets (para. 7.1 (k)).
Also, assurances were obtained from the Government that a final evaluative survey would be
carried out by June 30, 2001 and the results of this survey would be furnished to IDA for
comments by March 31, 2002. Within six months of the closing date, the Government will submit
afinal report to IDA on the project and a plan of such scope and detail, IDA may request for the
future operation of the completed project (para. 7.1 (1)).
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.23  The proposed project would have no significant impact on the environment. Protocols
would be developed for the safe disposal of syringes and medical waste at all health facilities



- 34 -
covered under the Health Strengthening component, and their implementation would be
monitored during supervision. Permethrin, or another similar insecticide, will be used to
impregnate bednets distributed under the malaria program. These are non-toxic to mammals and
are classified as "unlikely to present any health hazard in normal use." They are toxic to aquatic
fauna, including fish. However, its restricted and supervised use under the bednet program will
exclude any environmental impact. Project activities will result in no involuntary resettlement or
displacement.
F. PARTICIPATION
5.24  Project preparation was conducted using a participatory approach, and all efforts were
made to involve various stakeholders in project design and implementation decisions. First,
extensive discussions were held with MOH staff, provincial and district health authorities and
donors, including provincial health advisors, to determine the scope and coverage of the project.
Second, technical working groups drawn from the line departments were convened to consider
policy and technical issues specific to the project components. Third, a number of seminars were
held on various topics such as Health Management Agreements, AIDS, and Malaria to invite
comments and suggestions from a wider audience with representation from NGOs.
5.25  A PHRD grant has funded key aspects of project preparation, and the execution of the
grant is split between MOH and the Association. MOH has used these funds to conduct various
surveys and studies including an infrastructure and equipment survey, a social marketing study, a
TB patient compliance study and a study of intravenous drug abuse as a potential route of HIV
transmission (the latter three studies all employed focus group research techniques) to determine
component inputs based on community needs. A project implementation plan has been prepared
by MOH and jointly reviewed with the mission on a regular basis. In addition, during the later
stages of project preparation and implementation, evaluation and assessment activities will be
carried out to measure potential and actual popular response to service strategies.



- 35 -
6. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. BENEFITS
6.1   The benefits of the project correspond to measurable indicators of impact on the three
targeted disease control programs and in the improved access of rural Cambodians to basic health
services. The performance of the project will be measured in detail in the 10 provinces in which
the project will combine its health strengthening investments, its managerial improvements, and
its national disease control activities. In addition, the project will measure results of the three
disease control programs on a national basis, to evaluate the impact of indivisible national
program investments. A list of performance indicators by input, output, and impact and by
project and national program scope is detailed in Annex 9.
6.2   For TB, the total number of treated cases over the five year period is targeted at 106,000.
This is based on the need to reach an annual treatment target of 24,000 in the final year of the
project, at which point the annual prevalent pool of cases should have begun to decrease and the
incidence of new cases to decline. The project will calculate the annual risk of infection in the
final year of the project to estimate whether these declines, set to occur over a 5 to 10 year time
frame, have commenced. Such declines could be delayed by a substantial AIDS-associated rise
in TB cases. The fatality rate of active, untreated TB cases is not known for Cambodia with
precision. However, practitioners regard it, with malaria, as one of the leading causes of
premature fatality among children and especially young adults.
6.3   For malaria control, the project will intervene to treat the disease through more effective
case management and to prevent infection through bednet vector control. The incidence of
malaria in any one area is highly variable from year to year depending on weather, migration and
work habits, and to the quality of clinics and hospitals which will determine the flow of patients
with malaria. The malaria program has targeted a 30 percent decline in incidence over three
years in its first phase provinces for bednet distribution. The overall impact measure will be a
proxy indicator of the prevalence of malaria at a point in time; this will be determined by means
of periodic surveys of blood slide positively in the population. The impact on mortality will be
measured by the hospital case fatality rate, which is targeted to decline to below 2 percent by the
year 2000.
6.4   Impact on HIV incidence is difficult to predict due to the early stage of the epidemic, the
difficulty in predicting its likely trajectory, and the need for more knowledge of the effectiveness
of the various preventive interventions supported by the project. Further analytical work will be
conducted under the project to determine the possible path of the epidemic based on recently
analyzed Thai epidemiologic data. It is certainly probable that at a minimum, the rate of increase
of sero-positive blood donations will decline from its current doubling every year to far lower
rates of increase, and that the same will occur in the data on key risk groups (prostitutes and
soldiers), as has been the case in Thailand. The performance of the HIV component will be
measured more reliably by input and output indicators in the early stages of the project.



- 36 -
6.5   The beneficiaries of the TB and Malaria Control Programs will tend to be poor, rural
residents. Children and women will likely share these benefits at least in proportion to their
shares of population, which in Cambodia are higher than regional averages. The beneficiaries of
the HIV program will be members of the core risk groups in the near term, as they will receive
disproportionate levels of interventions through the NGO Small Grants Program, the Outreach
Program and sentinel surveillance. In addition, rural families in the 10 project provinces will
benefit from increased access to health centers offering the Government's minimum package of
services. Upgraded referral hospitals will provide the full range of Health Coverage Plan
Clinical Services.
6.6   The Health Strengthening component will improve access and raise utilization of modem
health services at the health center and hospital level in the 10 project provinces. About 2
million people will have access to health centers and functioning referral facilities as a result of
the project.
B. RISKS
6.7   There are three main project risks. First, the management capacities of the MOH and its
provincial counterparts have been overestimated, such that implementation of the provincial Health
Management Agreements will be slower than planned. Second, there is a possible shortage of
adequately skilled health personnel to staff and run the upgraded district-level facilities. Third, the
zone of insecurity (due to the continuing insurgency) may expand rather than contract, causing the
project to restrict its investments to a smaller scale than envisioned.
6.8   Care has been taken to minimize these risks during project preparation and appraisal. In
terms of management capacity, both the scale and phasing of the project have been designed to
reflect the management and implementation capabilities at the provincial levels. Management
capacity, measured in part by the presence of a donor-funded health advisor at the provincial
level, was a key criterion in determining which provinces the project would cover and how to
phase project inputs. Management training will be provided under a contract for health center
commissioning and through a parallel WHO-executed project.
6.9   As for the potential lack of adequately skilled and trained staff, the management and
skills training needs of the provincial and district health authorities has been assessed and an
initial estimate made of the resources committed to these programs by other donors. Sufficient
resources are available to cover most in-service training requirements. The Government has
agreed to prepare a National In-Service Training Plan to guide the allocation of Government and
donor resources. The project will provide for training of surgeons and anesthetists placed in full
referral hospitals. The PCU will coordinate closely with the donors and NGOs involved in
training, to ensure that the training needs of the IDA-financed provinces will be met.
6.10  The only risk that cannot be reduced through project preparation efforts is insecurity, a
factor affecting all development investments in Cambodia. For the past year, the zone of
insecurity has contracted steadily, an encouraging but not yet definitive development in the



- 37 -
Cambodian context. The project design has taken the current situation into account by reducing
project activities in provinces where the security situation remains unstable.
C. SUSTAINABILITY
Fiscal Impact
6.11   The annual recurrent cost implications of the project itself are minor. These include
maintenance and repair costs for facilities, replacement of foreign financed inputs, such as
medical equipment, bednets and to a much smaller extent drugs, 80 percent of which will be
financed by the Government budget during the project. Thus, these recurrent costs of US$2.6
million would consume less than 5.2 percent of the projected health budget in the year 2001.
Even if the analysis uses total program recurrent costs (instead of the project), the burden is still
manageable. The annual recurrent cost implications of the program have been estimated to be
approximately US$12 million a year. These recurrent costs cover the major health programs of
the MOH and the provincial delivery system. A report on Sustainability Analysis is included in
the Project Implementation Plan.
Cost Recovery
6.12  In several instances, the project has assessed the potential for cost recovery initiatives,
with positive results. Thus, within the broad public health rationale for public financing, there
are health services for which there is substantial (if inadequate) willingness to pay, with potential
benefits to project sustainability and, to a lesser extent, the government's fiscal position.
6.13  In the case of bednet distribution, a market feasibility study was completed for appraisal,
indicating that the bednet market in Cambodia was large and well distributed nationally, but that
prices confined demand to the more well-off households. Using focus group methods, the
analysis indicated a range of subsidized prices which would be affordable for the populations
living in endemic areas. These findings will be applied to a social marketing pilot in two
provinces and to the government's distribution of bednets through health facilities.
6.14  In the case of new health centers constructed under the project, an analysis of pilot health
centers and the implementation of a modest out-patient fee schedule revealed promising results
for the sustainability, utilization, and quality of health center services. Thus, the project will
finance the introduction of a similar cost recovery mechanism in Phase I provinces.
6.15   Finally, the study on TB food supplementation (see above) considered lowering the food
subsidy so as to lower food costs and raise patient contribution to their treatment. Patients
receive free drugs, hospitalization, and food under current policy, but must pay transport costs,
and foregone household production. The analysis concluded that the very low income profile of
TB patients argued for a full food subsidy, as did the evidence of low patient compliance in
hospitals where food supplementation was interrupted.



-38 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   it will establish a Project Coordination Unit, with competent personnel in
sufficient numbers, and select a PCU Manager, the Chief of the Administration
and Finance Unit, the Chief of the World Bank Operations Unit and a
Construction Manager in the World Bank Operations Unit acceptable to IDA, as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 5.2).
(b)   a Provincial Project Unit in the Provincial Health Directorate will be established
and the Provincial Project Director appointed for each of the six Phase I project
provinces as a condition of effectiveness. The Provincial Project Directors for
each of the four Phase I1 provinces would be appointed by September 30, 1997
(para. 5.3).
(c)   no expenditures by any province for civil works or medical equipment will be
made unless the Ministry of Health and the province concerned have entered into
their respective Health Management Agreement for the first year (para. 5.6).
(d)   it will prepare, satisfactory to IDA, implementation arrangements for the
provincial supervision costs, including the basic agreement between the MOH and
the participating Provincial Project Director, by June 30, 1997. It will enter into
such supervision agreements with Phase I provinces by September 30, 1997 and
Phase II provinces by September 30, 1998 (para. 5.3).
(e)   it will appoint senior technical facilities managers responsible for management of
regular preventive maintenance of upgraded provincial health facilities by
September 30, 1997 in the six Phase I project provinces, and by September 30,
1998 in the four Phase II project provinces (para. 5.16).
(f)   an administrative officer and a financial officer will be appointed to the NAO, and
the NAO elevated to Department status within the MOH by September 30, 1997
(para. 5.11).
(g)   it will prepare a performance evaluation report of the Outreach Program under the
HIV/AIDS Component covering the first two years of implementation, and submit
for the approval of IDA, not later than December 31, 1997, the evaluation report
and recommendations for further financing of the outreach program from the
unallocated category of the project (para. 3.26).
(h)   technical performance audits of the implementation of HMAs will be conducted
on a random basis starting in January, 1998 and the audit reports will be submitted
to IDA (para 5.20).



- 39 -
(i)   it will enter into a contractual relationship, acceptable to IDA, to prepare the
technical specifications and bidding documents, to supervise construction and to
disburse to contractors, for the first phase of construction of facilities by
December 31, 1996 and for the second phase of construction by December 31,
1997 (para. 5.14).
(j)   audits of project-related records and accounts, including the Special Account, will
be undertaken in accordance with appropriate accounting principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that audited accounts and
financial statements, in a format agreed with IDA, and including separate audits of
Statement of Expenditures, will be sent to IDA within six months of the end of
each Government fiscal year (para. 5.20).
(k)   it will prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 1999, a report integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of the report. This
report will be reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1999 (para. 5.22).
(1)   it will conduct a final evaluative survey by June 30, 2001 and submit to IDA, by
March 31, 2002, the results of this survey. The final evaluation report on the
project and a plan of such scope and detail as IDA may request for the future
operation of the completed project will be submitted to IDA within six months of
the Completion Date of the Project (para. 5.22).
(m)   it will no later than November 30 in each fiscal year, commencing November 30,
1996, and until completion of the Project, furnish to the Association the annual
work program and related budget for all project activities, acceptable to IDA
(para. 5.21).
(n)   it will prepare and implement a National In-Service Training Plan and Strategy
acceptable to IDA by March 31, 1997, including a time bound plan for the
training of staff at health centers and referral hospitals upgraded under the project,
and promptly thereafter carry out such plan taking into account IDA's comments
(para. 5.18).
(o)   it will submit to IDA for comments and review by January 31, 1997 a social
marketing strategy for bednet distribution and treatment, including a strategy for
cost recovery, and based on such discussions prepare a proposed action plan for
discussion with IDA and promptly carry out said action plan (para. 5.10).
(p)   it will select health centers and referral hospitals to be upgraded under the project
in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 5.14).
(q)   it will adequately staff health centers and referral hospitals upgraded under the
project (para. 5.18).



- 40 -
(r)   it will, not later than January 31, 1997, implement through the MOH a national
policy satisfactory to IDA on charging and collecting fees from patients for
services rendered at its national health facilities, including the policy on retention
of fees, the policy on setting and adjusting the schedule of fees, and the allowable
expenditure of fee revenues (para. 3.42).
(s)   it will appoint an HIV/AIDS Project Grant Committee not later than January 31,
1997, with responsibilities and membership satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.29).
7.2  In addition to the above agreements, the Government agreed to the following
understandings:
(a)   it will exempt the project from customs taxes and duties, or will make available to
MOH a budget allocation to cover the costs of custom duties and taxes, including
taxation of consultants (para. 4.3).
(b)   semi-annual progress reports will be furnished to IDA by June 30 and December
31 of each year commencing Fiscal Year 1997, in a format acceptable to IDA
(para. 5.21).
(c)   the government, with available donor funding, will finance the cost of food
supplementation for TB patient hospitalization and, as resources permit, for the
ambulatory phase of chemotherapy (para. 5.8).
7.3  In addition to the above agreements, prior to negotiations, the MOH provided IDA with
its standard format for a consultant contract to ensure its compliance with the Bank's guidelines
and the Standard Form of Contract for Consulting Services, June 1995 (para. 4.9 (c)).
7.4   Subject to the conditions in paras. 7.1 and 7.2 above, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an ITF Credit of SDR 20.6 million (US$30.4 million equivalent) to
the Kingdom of Cambodia on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years and 10 years
grace.



- 41-                               Annex I
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Support to National Tuberculosis Program
The detailed TB component description and budget is found in the project implementation
plan.
I. Background
1.    The National Tuberculosis Program (NTP) was started in 1980 with the establishment
of a national network of microscopists and treatment centers. The program has been
reorganized to incorporate short course tuberculosis therapy, long term technical support by
the World Health Organization (WHO), the production and distribution of a TB program
manual, a change in clinical and laboratory records in accordance with international
standards, and a change from suboptimal 12 month anti-TB therapy to a modem short course
therapy, all starting in 1994.
2.    The "new" NTP is being implemented by the Centre National Anti Tuberculeux
(CENAT), one of the seven central institutes in the Ministry of Health. CENAT consists of a
central office in Phnom Penh with approximately 20 staff and over 115 provincial and
district hospitals throughout the country. Provincial and district TB control activities are
conducted in the respective hospitals where TB patients are diagnosed and treated. Some
provincial supervisors may be members of the provincial hygiene station under the direction
of the provincial director for public health, others are employees of the provincial hospital
without direct connections with the hygiene station. Supervision from the provincial level
down, government programs for patient feeding, and general hospitalization and staffing
costs are borne by provincial governments. CENAT does not include commune or village
level facilities.
3.    Patient Diagnosis and Treatment. Patients suspected of having TB are diagnosed at
hospitals within the CENAT system. If a patient suspected of having TB is seen outside the
system, i.e. at a commune clinic, a referral is made to a provincial or district hospital within
the system. Diagnosis is based upon unconcentrated sputum smears stained for acid-fast
bacilli (AFB) at each treatment facility. Patients with negative sputum AFB smears undergo
a series of clinical evaluations over six weeks for the diagnosis of AFB smear negative TB.
The treatment of TB consists of multiple antibiotics given concurrently for 8 to 12 months.
Several regimens are used, incorporating all or some of the antibiotics streptomycin,
pyrazinamide, rifampicin, isoniazid, and ethambutol. Drug requirements are calculated on a
quarterly basis at all treatment facilities based upon registry tabulations and passed to the
central office. These requests are then shared with the Central Medical Stores (CMS) in the
Ministry of Health which in turn is responsible for the acquisition and distribution of drugs
for the country.



- 42 -                              Annex 1
4.    An intensive phas of treatment, lasting the first two or three months depending on
the regimen used, is directly observed and is almost always completed on an in-patient basis.
If ambulatory care is offered during the intensive phase, then the patient must make daily
visits to the hospital for supervised therapy. The continuation phase of therapy is done on an
ambulatory basis with the patients given monthly supplies of medications. No formal
outreach activities are included in the NTP at this time.
5.    Food supplements in the form of rice, oil, fish and protein biscuits are provided to the
patients on a daily basis while in the hospital, and on a monthly basis as an out-patient. The
food program has been credited with enabling the patients to remain in the hospital through
the intensive phase of therapy and acting as an incentive for completing their therapy as an
out-patient.
6.    Training and Supervision. An extensive training program has been established to
implement the recent changes in the TB control program. In addition, ongoing training for
microscopists is conducted to maintain competency of AFB smear reading in the field. A
five day course is required for participants in the new program covering the theoretical
groundwork for short course chemotherapy, the use of the short course antibiotic regimen,
the new registries and cohort analysis. The seminar is followed by a field visit by the
training team to the hospital from which the seminar participants work. In addition, a bi-
annual meeting of participants is held to present the results of hospital experience and
program analyses.
7.    The NTP has had the benefit of a long-term advisor from the WHO for program
development and implementation. A three tiered supervisory system is established with the
central office overseeing the provincial offices and the provincial office overseeing the
district offices. Regular supervisory visits are scheduled at the central and provincial level on
a monthly basis. Tabulation of TB registry information and cohort analysis is conducted at
all levels, with the information collected by provincial supervisors and passed on to the
central office.
8.    Laboratory Services. In addition to a simple microscopy laboratory at each treatment
facility, CENAT includes a reference mycobacteriology laboratory. The facility is currently
being renovated in order to culture for M tuberculosis and to perform identification and
susceptibility testing. There are two long-term laboratory consultants, one supervisor, and 12
technicians working at the facility. This team is responsible for the training of all AFB smear
laboratory technicians, the preparation of AFB staining supplies for the country, the quality
control of AFB slide staining and interpretation in all of approximately 150 laboratories, and
the conduct of future M tuberculosis drug-resistance surveys.
9.    Program Evaluation and Surveys. Quarterly cohort analysis of TB patients is an
integral part of the program. Indicators included in the analysis include: number of new
cases and treatment regimens used, number and proportion of patients completing therapy,
number and proportion of patients confirmed cured by sputum microscopy, number of
patients who died, number of patients who defaulted from therapy, and the number of



I-43-                                Annex 1
patients who transferred to another treatment facility. These results are compiled and
computerized at the central office and shared with all supervisors at the bi-annual TB
supervisors meetings.
10.   Several surveys are built into the program, including an initial TB prevalence survey,
tuberculin skin test surveys to be conducted every five years, and M tuberculosis drug-
resistance and HIV infection prevalence surveys yearly.
II. Program Function and Implementation
11.   The NTP is well founded in internationally accepted concepts of TB control in low
income countries. Given the combination of the extraordinary burden of tuberculosis in the
population, coupled with the proven efficacy of well implemented TB control, the NTP has
the potential to greatly impact the future health of Cambodians. CENAT has been able to
implement the new NTP with an impressive agenda starting in 1994. Implementation
consists of training and support of hospitals with sufficient staff and facilities to carry out the
program. Identified staff are trained in Phnom Penh in a five day seminar. After the initial
training, a team from the CENAT central office visits the facility to help organize pharmacy,
ward, record, and supervision procedures. For district facilities not yet trained or unable to
participate in the new program, the old, more simplified program continues. The old
program does not use the short course antibiotic regimen with its combination drugs and does
not contain the records necessary for quarterly cohort analysis. Thus, program indicators
such as the proportion of cases confirmed cured are not known for facilities using the old
system. But the new program is expanding rapidly and 100% coverage is planned by the end
of 1996. However, the program is still fragile and its capacity is strained. Human resources
are short, especially for skilled administrative personnel. None of the staff work full-time
and absenteeism is a problem. The central office is dependent on 12 key people for its
function, including direct training and supervision responsibilities. In the provinces and
districts, staff turnover has been problematic, requiring frequent training of new personnel.
12.   The program has heavily depended on outside donor support, especially for drugs and
training and supervision activities, and lack of future support lies in the path of increasing
program needs. The patient load may increase by 50 percent within the next 5 years,
requiring an increase in most every capacity and supply during that time. However, with
comprehensive financing of the components outlined below, along with the support provided
by the health systems strengthening, CENAT should be able to accommodate the expansion
of this program projected to the year 2000.
13.   Under health systems strengthening, facilities will be refurbished, upgraded or built
anew. These facilities should be incorporated into the new NTP as efficiently as possible.
Therefore, CENAT staff will be included in the effort to organize and start new facility
functions. Refurbished buildings and new equipment and supplies will allow district
facilities which could not support the new NTP in the past to become part of the program
with the necessary training. Thus, with the upgrade and expansion of old facilities and the



-44-                               Annex I
construction of new facilities, the NTP will be able to expand to meet the goals of the
program and the needs of the people.
III. Component Description and Financing Needs
14.   The financing plan is based upon continuing the current program strategy, including
feeding and housing of tuberculosis patients in hospitals for the intensive phase of therapy
(two months) and feeding patients during therapy as an out-patient.
15.   The number of patients projected for the five year period of the project are based on
the epidemiologic assumptions previously detailed. The number of cases treated in the years
1993 to 1995 has increased 13, 000 per year. Projected case numbers for this project are
based on continuing an 8 to 10 percent increase in the first three years, thereafter leveling off
at 24,000 cases by the year 2000. Thus, with rounding, the five year projection of case
numbers would is as follows:
YEAR         1996        1997        1998         1999        2000
CASES       18,000      19,500       21,500      23,000      24,000
16.   Calculations for the proposed financing are based upon these projections. The supply
of drugs to the TB program is budgeted under essential drugs in the health systems
strengthening component of the project. Acquisitions will be made through the Central
Medical Stores (CMS) of the Ministry of Health. Distribution of drugs will proceed
according to requests processed by CENAT and passed on to CMS.



- 45 -                             Annex 2
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mosquito Net Distribution and Treatment
I. National Bednet Program
A. Objectives
1.   In support of the overall Malaria Program Goal - to reduce malaria mortality and
morbidity to the extent that malaria is no longer a major disease problem in Cambodia - the
national bednet program objectives are:
(a)   Expansion of and evaluation of insecticide-treated bednets projects, including
complete coverage of the population at risk in Kg. Cham and Kg. Speu in
1995-1997, with expansion to 19 other provinces in 1996-2000.
(b)   Development of social marketing strategies for reaching transient forest
workers and other population groups in collaboration with NGOs, to begin in
1995 and increase yearly through 2000.
B. Structure and Management
Central Level
2.    The National Bednet Program is managed at the central level by the National Malaria
Center (CNM). A Bednet Project Coordinator has been contracted for the duration of the
project by the Director of CNM, financed by ODA.  The Bednet Coordinator, in
collaboration with CNM staff and with technical support from a full time WHO
Malariologist, is responsible for planning, organizing and managing program implementation
and program evaluation.
3.    The health education, laboratory, epidemiology, entomology and parasitology units
within CNM provide technical supervision and support for the implementation of the
National Bednet Program. The health education unit is currently running health education
activities in Kg. Chain and Kg. Speu in support of bednet distribution in April 1995. The
laboratory unit conducts blood surveys as part of program evaluation as well as providing
technical supervision for routine blood slide surveillance services at provincial and some
district hospitals. The epidemiology unit provides HIS and census data for planning
purposes. The entomology and parasitology units are involved in surveillance activities (e.g.
drug and insecticide sensitivity studies and program evaluation).



- 46 -                             Annex 2
4.   It is proposed that a National Bednet Steering Committee is established with
representatives from CNM, WHO, donor agencies, NGOs, social marketing and, where
feasible, provincial malaria supervisors. The committee will be responsible for defining
policy, for planning, coordinating and standard setting for project implementation, for
program evaluation and for identifying resource requirements. The committee will be
established end 1 995/early 1996, meeting on a fairly frequent basis during the early phases of
program implementation, and biannually thereafter.
Inputs                  Processes                  Outputs
Training of CNM staff in   Training, Supervision,    National Bednet Plan of
bednet technology,         CNM to province.        Action, 1996-2000.
methodologies and promotion.
Study tours to other countries  Progress reports, CNM to  Bednet Training Module.
implementing national bednet  MOH.
programs.
Vehicles, supplies and
equipment.
Operational budget.
Provincial Level
5.    The malaria program is managed in each province by a Provincial Malaria Supervisor
under the overall responsibility of the provincial health directors, in addition to which there is
a Malaria Supervisor for all the rubber plantations in the country. The Malaria Supervisors
are usually attached to the Provincial Hygiene and Epidemiology Station, together with one
or two microscopists.
6.    Key duties and functions for the bednet program will be preparation of annual plans
in consultation with the districts, training and technical support to the districts, storage of
nets, distribution of nets to the districts, management of the operations budget, preparation of
progress reports (submitted to CNM) and program evaluation.
Inputs                  Processes                Outputs
Training of provincial malaria  Training, technical  Bednet Plan of Action.
supervisors in net treatment    support and supervision,  Province reports, province to
technology and             province to district.  CNM.
methodologies, and
promotion.
Supplies and equipment.    Social mobilization.
Operational budget for     Health education.
implementation.



- 47 -                              Annex 2
District Leyel
7.    District malaria supervisors will be responsible for conducting baseline demographic
surveys, training and supervising commune health staff and villagers in bednet
methodologies, storage of supplies and equipment, distribution of nets direct to village level,
treatment and re-treatment of nets, health education and social mobilization. The districts
will also be expected to follow-up net distribution with household visits to determine
acceptance and compliance in the target population.
8.    Funds for implementation of the national Bednet Program will be provided by the
Provincial Health Team on a periodic basis, according to planned activities as reflected in the
district annual plans. The districts will provide quarterly progress reports to the Provincial
Health Teams with the focus on operational issues, particularly constraints, and will
participate in annual review meetings at the province.
Inputs                    Processes                  Outputs
Training in insecticide-treated  Monitoring. Technical  Plan of Action. Monitoring
bednet technology,          support and supervision,    reports, district to province.
methodologies and promotion.  district to commune.
Supplies and equipment.
Operational budget for      Social mobilization. Health
implementation.             education.
Commune Level
9.    Staffing capacity at this level is severely limited. Hence staff at this level will only be
expected to support the district in an organizational capacity, e.g. for baseline demographic
and socio-economic baseline surveys and for treatment and re-treatment exercises.
Inputs                     Processes                  Outputs
Training in insecticide-treated  Social mobilization and health  Monitoring reports.
bednet technology,          education reports (promotion).
methodologies and promotion. Follow up at household level.
II. Program Strategies & Options for Cost Recovery
10.   The national bednet program will adopt two approaches for the distribution and
treatment of nets - a public sector health service strategy and a private sector social marketing
strategy - each of which offers a set of advantages over the other. The public sector approach
will: (a) ensure equity and access by the majority of the poor rural population; and
(b) achieve high coverage thereby reducing malaria transmission. The social marketing
approach has the advantages of: (a) creating high levels of demand, regardless of disposable



- 48 -                              Annex 2
income levels, through mass media campaigns; (b) catering for specific sub-groups of the
population which are less accessible e.g. forest workers; and (c) providing better options for
cost recovery.
11.   Both sectors will be represented in a national Bednet Steering Committee, which will
serve a number of purposes including: (a) to define and agree on policy; (b) to ensure
standardization and quality control of bednet services, particularly in the private sector; and
(c) to provide guidance on program evaluation.
A. Cost Recovery - Public Sector
12.   As an intervention in support of public good, bednet use has a strong rationale for
public subsidy. The objective of cost recovery here will be an attempt to promote better
utilization of nets at household level based on the logic described earlier - that nets with a
cost attached to them will be better 'valued' by the buyer, and consequently used and cared
for correctly.
13.   There are several options for the flow of funds generated from net fees through the
public sector distribution program. Revenue from the sale of nets can (a) be used to
strengthen health services at the commune level, e.g. for renovations, supplementary drugs
and/or services; (b) be retained in the community to support community-managed health
and/or development projects; (c) used to strengthen district health services, e.g. provision of
mobile outreach services.
14.   The choice of one of these options will very much depend on capacity for financial
management (structures or intermediaries) at the village level, which will undoubtedly vary
from place to place, and it may be worthwhile to pilot cost recovery schemes in communities
with well-established infrastructure. Health staff should begin a dialogue with community
committees and associations in target communes well before distribution takes place, so that
commune leaders, committee members and other community leaders can meet to decide on
how to spend revenue generated from net sales in their commune/village. The bednet
committees and community leaders should be given the responsibility for organizing public
forums to create awareness about the distribution program, the 'net fund', and proposed uses
of the fund.
B. Cost Recovery - Social Marketing
15.   The private sector/social marketing approach provides several options for cost
recovery, two of which are considered here - distribution through private retailers and
distribution through organizations such as NGOs, rubber plantation companies and the
military service.
16.   Nets and insecticide will be provided through the Ministry of Health's national
program and sold at or below cost to private retail outlets and distributors, NGOs and other
large institutions and/or companies. Nets will be sold through these outlets at a mark-up
price in order to cover overheads and provide a profit margin. The outlets then buy more nets



-49-                                 Anex 2
from the social marketing agency once their stocks are depleted. In principle this approach
should provide a high level of cost recovery, depending on the willingness to pay of target
populations. However, complete cost recovery is impossible due to costs incurred by the
agency, including: (a) cost of the initial 'seed' supply of nets; (b) cost of the social marketing
campaign; (c) running costs; and (d) lower than market prices to assure high retail sales to
target groups. The social marketing program will therefore require significant donor subsidy.
C. Rubber Plantations and the Military Service
17.   Workers on the rubber plantations and the army are particularly at risk from malaria.
Estimates of bed occupancy rates by soldiers in hospitals around the country exceed 50
percent in general wards.  Rubber plantation managers report they have to provide
supplementary curative services (in the form of mobile clinics) for their workers and their
families during periods of heavy malaria transmission.
18.   The full impact of malaria on the rubber plantation companies in economic terms has
yet to be determined but is likely to be considerable due to both loss of productivity and the
cost of providing extensive curative services for workers and their families. Nevertheless the
biggest burden of malaria is at the household level, where family income is almost entirely
generated from work in the plantations. Loss of earnings by workers through illness is
exacerbated by significant, often crippling, expenditure on curative care both for themselves
as well as their families. Death is also not uncommon.
19.   There is need for dialogue between CNM/Ministry of Health, the military service and
the rubber plantation companies to develop a mutually agreeable strategy for bednet
distribution and treatment services for soldiers and workers (and their families) respectively.
The strategy should provide for a cost recovery component, preferably with a high degree of
subsidy by the employer. This strategy has the added advantage that employers can use a
'direct debit' approach for recovering net fees by deducting fees from salaries, with the option
of payment in installments.
III. Project Support to the National Bednet Program
A. Social Marketing
20.   An international non-profit organization will be contracted to develop a social
marketing strategy suitable to the Cambodian situation. The first requirement is a detailed
market survey, the findings of which will determine the feasibility and level of support
required to implement a social marketing bednet distribution and retreatment program in
Cambodia. This study was completed in April 1996 and its findings incorporated into the
appraisal of the project. Feasibility was judged to be high. The TOR for a two year first
phase implementation were prepared and agreed.
21.   The social marketing component will utilize existing private sector resources, such as
distributors, retailers and advertising agencies, to sell a branded insecticide-treated bednet
product. Nets provided through the program (in the first four years; perhaps thereafter from



- 50 -                               Annex 2
wholesalers) will be repacked with an appealing package and image, and sold to retailers and
distributors at a subsidized price. The retailers and distributors will in turn sell the brand-
name bednets at a mark-up price to cover overheads. If sales are successful, the retailer buys
more nets from the project and the cycle continues. Implicit in the project is the need to
control the mark-up price, the modalities of which must be determined prior to project
implementation.
22.   Demand creation activities for nets and retreatment will be implemented alongside
sale and distribution. Information on affordability, access and KAP from the market survey
will be used to formulate appropriate information, education and communication (IEC)
strategies and for specific target groups. In addition to creating demand for brand-name nets,
it is anticipated that the IEC strategy developed by the social marketing project will also
increase demand for insecticide-treated bednets provided through the public sector program.
B. Health Education and Social Mobilization
23.   The health education unit at CNM has already developed a number of IEC materials
which include insecticide-treated bednets as a component of malaria control strategies
suitable for community participation. Support will be provided for printing and reproduction
of existing materials, as well as a limited operational budget for implementation. In addition
to education of the general population, traditional healers, health activists and TBAs will be
targeted through local workshops run by district and commune health staff. Community
mobilization for bednet distribution and retreatment will be the responsibility of provincial
governors, community leaders, health workers at provincial, district and commune levels,
NGO personnel and employers. Mobilization campaigns should be conducted prior to net
distribution and every six months thereafter, prior to retreatment exercises.
C. Training
24.   CNM will be responsible for training all personnel involved in bednet distribution and
treatment - health staff, NGO employees, managers of the social marketing project, managers
of the rubber plantations, villagers etc. This is critical to ensuring standardization and quality
control of bednet services. WHO has provided TA for a period of four months for training of
CNM staff in insecticide-treated bednet technology and associated methodologies (e.g.
method for collective dipping, bioassays, insecticide sensitivity assays).
25.   In-service training will be required at all levels of the health service - at national,
provincial, district and commune levels - to ensure the delivery of quality services. A pre-
requisite to training will involve an assessment of the training needs at each level, preferably
during the planning session with provincial health management teams.



-51 -                               Annex 2
D. Logistics
Procurement and Distribution
26.   Nets and insecticide will be procured by CNM using MOH procurement services and
delivered to the Central Medical Store of the MOH for storage and subsequent distribution to
the provinces. Procurement will take place on an annual basis in the second quarter [to allow
six months lead time], based on planning estimates. A request can be made to the supplier
for delivery in two or more installments, to reduce the amount of storage required at CMS.
After the first year, annual requirements can be revised according to the pace of
implementation in the previous year.
27.   Distribution to the provinces will follow the implementation schedule outlined in the
Project Implementation Plan and a limited number of provinces, grouped into five 'regions'
(Northwest, Central, Southwest, Southeast and Northeast), will implement the program each
year. This is expected to simplify logistics and facilitate the distribution process. CMS will
use the same distribution channels as currently used for drugs, immunization supplies and
equipment.
28.   The provinces will provide temporary storage for nets and deliver them to the districts
as scheduled in the provincial plan of action. Districts will then be required to store nets and
insecticide for a brief period, until they are delivered to the community level. Health centers
are not expected to handle supplies.
Transport
29.   The Central Medical Store of the MOH will have five trucks suitable for the
distribution of bednets and insecticide from Phnom Penh to the provinces. Additional
transport can be sought from private companies at reasonable rates. For purposes of
transportation from provincial headquarters to the districts, malaria supervisors will rely on
common-use MOH transport and NGOs.
Supplies and Equipment
30.   Supplies and equipment required for the bednet program include nets, insecticide,
plastic buckets, gloves, measuring cylinders, bioassay kits, insecticide sensitivity kits,
equipment for blood surveys and vehicles.



- 52 -                              Annex 3
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HIV/AIDS COMPONENT: MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
1.    The detailed project description and budget is found in the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP). The following items reflect subjects of particular interest in relation to the management
and implementation of the HIV/AIDS component.
Organization and Management of the Government's response to the Epidemic
2.    The Government's response to the epidemic is anchored in the National AIDS Office
(NAO) which was established in 1993. The position of this office within the MOH has not been
clear, but to rectify this situation, a condition of the credit will be to upgrade the office to the
level of department through appointing an administrator and financial officer. The relationship
between the NAO and the Institute of Dermatology and Venereology has also required
clarification, but a decision has been reached that the Institute will fall under the NAO as its
primary function relates to the STD program.
3.    Policy guidance and interministerial coordination is conducted through the National
Committee on HIV/AIDS/STD which is chaired by the Minister of Health. The First Prime
Minister is the honorary chairman of this committee which meets irregularly and infrequently.
There is no representation of the NGO community on the committee which, otherwise, broadly
reflects those ministries with an interest in the epidemic. The national committee acts as a forum
for discussion but it makes no decisions about resources and how those should be expended
across ministries. The National AIDS Office at the MOH acts as the -secretariat for the national
committee.
4.    Earlier, there was an intent to establish a secretariat and a technical committee to assist
advising the national program. In reality, the so called secretariat was another committee but
comprised of lower level staff from across the concerned ministries. The technical committee
meets infrequently.
5.    The issues related to the Government's organization of its response were discussed at a
World Bank/UNDP/WHO sponsored workshop conducted on August 17, 1995. While there was
no immediate outcome, what has emerged is that the National AIDS Office in will become
known as the National HIV/AIDS/STD Secretariat obviating the proposed "secretariat
committee". The technical committee will serve the HIV/AIDS/STD Secretariat.
6.    Currently, the whole Government's response to the epidemic is conducted through and by
the Ministry of Health. Therefore, the Project will make available its resources through the
MOH and the HIV/AIDS/STD Secretariat.



-53 -                                     Annex 3
7.     The following organogram sets out the relations of the key actors in the Government's
response and the organizational structure within MOH.
Figure 3.1
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HIVIAIDSISTD COMPONENT ORGANOGRAM
Ministryr of H"tth 
National Commitee ror
'HlVAIDS1STD PreventIon &L ---  Olreror General
ConImI (NSAC)          of Heal
- - - - - - - - - - -
p           HIVIAIDSISTD
Tadenical                                     Natonal Blood
Sub-Commttee                      - - - - - -  - -  Trnsusion Center
I~~~~~"  I I                       
Natcnal MioSsTD   so tMa nagement IEC Unwl GreFund Unit Admnlarit&    Toing Unit Eres atuoniabeor  | Pero gprcami
Cenasa teSDcntradfrterinroucionancte Uniticapoaht tedagoi
and management of STDs in the helth care delivery system. AdminiReseari Ungt  Unt S
a II
| fIVrIoSfSTD N
I Proslndal   l
l Programs  F
8.      Within the National AIDS office, units have been established to be responsible for
specific functions of the NAO. The STD management unit will be responsible for the specialized
programs at the STD center and for the introduction of the syndromic approach to the diagnosis
and management of STDs in the health care delivery system. Administering the  Small Grants
Fund  for NGO  activities and responsibility for the National Committee for HIV/AIDS/STD
Prevention and Control will rest with the Grants Fund Unit. An IEC unit, managed by a media
director to be specifically recruited for this purpose, will orchestrate the public information
campaigns to be developed and launched through the project. The Outreach Program will
continue to receive direction and support from the unit already established for this purpose. All
surveillance and evaluation activities will be managed by a specific unit for this purpose. Human
resource development will be the responsibility of the training unit which will need to coordinate
closely with more specialized units which have specialized staff development responsibilities.
Finally, the administration and finance unit will provide the services necessary to ensure the
smooth functioning of the NAO.



- 54 -                             Annex 3
9.    The majority of the Provincial AIDS Offices (PAO) have a complement of five staff
although a few smaller provinces only have three. The PAOs are technically under the direction
of the NAO. The outreach and STD programs in each province are under the direction of
assigned staff at the provincial office with the responsibility for fostering and managing the
outreach program, currently mainly aimed at prostitutes, and managing the introduction of the
syndromic approach to the diagnosis and treatment of STDs. Involvement in the epidemiological
and other survey activities will form part of PAO work programs as well as organizing training
activities at provincial level on a variety of themes including counseling.
10.   The National Blood Transfusion Center (NBTC) is responsible for organizing and
directing the country's blood transfusion services. The Director of the NBTC reports to the
MOH.
Small Grants Fund for NGOs
11.   The significance of the role of the NGO sector in the response within the country so far
cannot be over estimated, from the successful social marketing of condoms to preparing
informational materials to working directly with high risk groups. The Government recognizes
that synergy between the government and non-government sector is important for the country's
effort to contain the epidemic.
12.  In recognition of the continued importance of NGO efforts, under this project, a fund will
be established to provide small grants for the NGO sector. The fund will work in two ways,
responding to proposals submitted by NGOs and proposing activities to the NGO sector which
they are best able to conduct. The fund is expected to contribute to attainment of government
policy and priorities in relation to the epidemic. The following lays out the mechanism by which
the fund will operate.
NATIONAL AIDS OFFICE - NGO SMALL GRANTS PROGRAM
National AIDS Program
13.   The National AIDS Program is a coordinated effort by the Royal Government of
Cambodia to address the increasing presence of HIV within the country. The program will
receive assistance from the World Bank through the Disease Control and Health Development
Project and through other multilateral and bilateral support.
14.   The role of the NGO community in dealing with the prevention of the further spread of
HIV in Cambodia is well known and documented. The synergy between the Government's
program and those of the NGO community needs to be enhanced, each recognizing the relative
strengths and merits of their activities.



55-                               Annex 3
Small Grants Program
15.   The Small Grants program, set up under this project, will award grants to NGOs and
other community groups for small-scale projects and activities that address HIV/AIDS issues.
The principal objective of the programn is to facilitate and carry out innovative activities to further
limit the spread of the HIV virus. Such activities may be proposed by the NGO conmmunity or
proposed to them by the National AIDS Program.
16.   Under this program, grants will be provided directly to NGOs and community groups to
carry out specific projects and activities which fall within the overall strategy of containing the
HIV epidemic. Grants will be made after evaluating proposals received from NGOs and
community groups by the Project Grant Committee on an open and competitive basis. Grants
will only be made to organizations and not to individuals. Such organizations must be
organically and functionally outside the formal Government structure. The foregoing committee
will administer the program.
Project Grant Committee
17.   The committee will consist of  the Director of the National AIDS Program, a
representative of UNAIDS Theme Group, a representative of the World Bank's Project
Operation Unit, a representative of a Khmer NGO and a representative of an International NGO.
In the latter two cases, the organizations represented will be those substantially dedicated to
addressing the HIV/AIDS issue in Cambodia. The responsibility for selection of representatives
from the Khmer and International NGO community will rest with the NGO HIV/AIDS
Coordinating Committee.
18.   The chairperson of the committee will be the Director of the National AIDS Program or
his/her designee.  The chairperson will organize the committee in consultation with the
concerned parties and will be responsible for all committee meetings whose frequency will be at
his/her discretion. The presence of three members will represent a quorum.
19.   Responsibility for administering the approved projects, including disbursements, and for
the preparation and submission of reports will rest with the staff of the National AIDS
Secretariat.
The terms of reference for the committee will be to:
(i)  Promote the NGO Grant program;
(ii) Select and approve project proposals submitted to the committee;
(iii) Review progress reports of projects; and
(iv) Review and approve project completion reports for submission to the World Bank's
PCU and other concerned entities.
Application Eligibility
20.   Whatever the type of organization, certain basic requirements need to be fulfilled as part
of the selection criteria and include the following:



- 56 -                              Annex 3
(i)  A basic organizational structure or constitution;
(ii)  At least two years experience in relevant fields of activity;
(iii) Some demonstrated capacity in project management, reporting and accounting;
(iv) Adequate coverage in clientele and geographic terms;
(v)  Some form of registration either with a Government institution or an NGO network, to
establish both authenticity and accountability; and
(vi) A statement of financial accounts for the previous year, to indicate the ability to manage
project money.
21.   Information on the above and other aspects of organizational history and strength will be
asked for in the standard project proposal format which must be filled in by all parties applying
for grants. If there is uncertainty whether an organization is eligible to apply for a grant,
clarification may be sought from the Project Grant Committee.
Type of Project Activities to be Supported
22.   Grants will be awarded to innovative preventive activities, with a focus on populations
particularly vulnerable to the impact of sexually transmitted diseases and HIV. For the target
populations, areas of interest include, but are not limited to:
(i)  Peer education programs for target populations;
(ii)  Participatory and innovative workshops;
(iii) Information, Communication and Education;
(iv) Advocacy; and
(v)  Specialized studies and research framed in a social and gender context.
Duration of Grants
23.   Grants will initially be made to support project activities with a 12 month or less time
frame. However, prospective applicants are encouraged to submit project plans covering a 2-3
year period. It is possible that follow-up grants may be made based on performance, at a later
stage.
Nature of Grants
24.   Initially, the range for an individual grant will be up to US$25,000 equivalent. However,
the actual size of grant will be determined depending on specific project requirements and the
absorption capacity of the group concerned. The grants will be made in US$ riel equivalents
based on budget estimates submitted with project proposals.
25.   It is expected that the grants will be made in installments. The final installment will be
made on satisfactory completion of the activity and the receipt of a final report. Funding can be
provided for both new programs and for continuing existing activities. Co-funding of activities
may be considered when appropriate.



-57 -                              Annex 3
26.   Funding will not be available for construction and other infrastructure development
activities nor for the purchase of vehicles. The cost of project related transport may be included
in the budget estimate submitted with the project proposal. Limited budget support can be
provided, if critical need is established, for the acquisition of items of office equipment if the cost
does not exceed 30 percent of the total budget estimate for the project. Staff salaries may also be
supported either on a partial or full basis for the duration of the project, but such support should
be clearly indicated in the proposal submission.
27.   Money allocated for the activities described in the project proposal cannot be assigned by
the grantee for other purposes if it is greater than five percent of the total budget without prior
approval from the Small Grants Program Approval Committee.
28.   The grantee organization may propose to charge, in the budget estimate, an amount not to
exceed 15 percent of total project budget for administrative overheads and such other expenses.
29.   Each organization is expected to indicate what counterpart contributions it can make to
projects over and above the grant from the program. This might include voluntary services and
time on part of members of the organization, use of premises and equipment, mobilization of
voluntary technical advice from competent sources and co-financing from the organization's
other funds. The amount of counterpart funds, which should represent a minimum of five
precent of the total project budget, will be reviewed during project assessment, although the
magnitude of those contributions will not, in itself, be a key determinant.
Submission of Proposals
30.   All project proposals should be developed according to the prescribed project format
copies of which are freely available at the National AIDS Office and the Project Coordination
Unit. The proposals may be submitted in Khmer with an English translation or in English. They
should be submitted to the Director of the National AIDS Office at the Ministry of Health for the
attention of the Project Grant Committee. Submissions will be accepted twice yearly.
31.   Applicants whose proposals are selected for funding will be asked to enter into a
"Memorandum of Agreement" which will outline the nature of the project, duration, amount
granted and other arrangements such as for reporting.
Proposal Format
32.   Each submission is expected to adopt the following format and to be no longer than three
pages:
(i)  Name of Organization, list of principal officers and contact information;
(ii) Brief background about the organization including background and experience of key
people;
(iii) Proposal indicating rationale, objectives and implementation schedule; and
(iv) Budget - costs of personnel, project (travel, activities, communication), materials and
overhead.



- 58 -                              Annex 4
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Services Strengthening - Provincial Selection and Phasing
National Health Coverage Support under the Project
1.   In order to achieve a rational allocation and utilization of resources at the operational
district level, the Government has developed a National Health Coverage Plan. Based on
discussions with the government, and in keeping with government policy, the project will
support the health coverage plan at the operational district level as a means to better deliver
primary health care and disease control programs at the community level. The plan attempts
to rationalize the provision of health facilities by changing the focus of the referral-peripheral
unit from being linked to an administrative unit of a district, to being linked to the population
size served (operational district). It aims at developing the physical infrastructure and human
resources in the health system based on a geographical and population basis. It defines the
catchment areas for each level of treatment and specifies the location of health facilities.
Workshops were held with representation from provincial and district health authorities,
NGOs and provincial health advisors. The decisions emerging from these workshops have
been used as the basis for defining the needs of operational districts in terms of facilities,
equipment and drugs.
Determination of Province Selection and Phasing
2.    The project will support the Government's National Health Coverage Plan by
providing basic health services strengthening at the health center and referral hospital level.
All provinces in the country have conducted a mapping exercise to determine the location of
the health facilities under the coverage plan. Government also held a series -of provincial
workshops in which provincial and district authorities reconciled the population-based
numbers of health centers and referral hospitals to reflect the mapping exercise and needs of
the operational district. The health facilities that would be upgraded/newly constructed and
equipped under the project was determined using the provincial numbers of health centers
and referral hospitals that emerged from the discussions as the basis.
3.   In order to determine the provinces that would be included during the time frame of
the project, the following criteria were used:
(a)   Exclusion of ADB assisted provinces - K.Cham, K. Chhnang, Takeo, Svey
Reng and Prey Veng)
(b)   Prevalence of disease - TB, and malaria (high is positive, low is negative; 2 =
tuberculosis and 2 = tuberculosis + malaria))



-59-                                      Annex 4
(c)    Management capacity - presence of provincial health advisor (H.A.) is
positive, absence of H.A. is negative.
(d)    Access (good is positive, poor is negative)
(e)    Population size (large is positive, small is negative)
Table 1
Scoring System Used for Provincial Selection
No. Name of          Criteria -     Criteria -
Province       Positive        Negative
1  B. Meanchey    1,2,5            3,4
3   K. Cham                        I
(ADB)
4   K. Chhnang
(ADB)
1111-114.   I   0-4;11-   ...........
18E S|iauokill   1, 2,              3, 5    
9   Koh Kong       1,2,            3,4,5
I I  Mondulkiri     1, 2,           3, 4, 5
1 2   P. Vihear     1, 2, 5         3, 4
14  Prey VengI
(ADB)
18   Sihanuoukville I, 2, 4         3, 5
19  Stung Treng     1, 2, 4         3, 5
20   Svay Rieng                     I
(ADB)_
21   Takeo (ADB) 
*2 =high prevalence of tuberculosis and 2 = high prevalence of tuberculosis + malaria
**The provinces that scored positive in four or all of the five criteria were included under the
project.
4.     Phasing of provinces is planned in 2 phases - phase I activities would begin during the
1 st year of the project and phase II activities would commence a year later. Phase I provinces
are: Battambang, Kampot/Kep, Kampong Speu, Kandal, Phnom Penh and Siem Reap.
Phase II provinces are: Kampong Thom, Kratie, Pursat and Rattanakiri.



- 60 -                                     Annex 4
Table 2
HEALTH CENTER PHASING
No.       Name of      Total HCs   Yr. 0                   Yr.  Yr.  Y., r.. Yr.  Yr.  Yr.
Province     targeted/   Govt.   1    2 ....        - :   5    6    7
achieved   other   X
donors                   ....
I   *  Battambang      30/30      0                  ..  .. .   0    0   0
2   K. Speu            50/31      8               . 6  . .      8    3    0
3   K. Thom            50/26      4            0 . X            10   10    0
4   Kampot/Kep         50/23      6               - 5    6    7    8    8    5
5   Kandal             88/43      7    .10   10 1               15   15  8
6   Kratie             22/10      1                      X 3    -    4    5    6    0
7    *  Phnom          20/20      0          .  7        .   - 0    0    0
Penh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ... ....   .   ..   ....  . 
Penh        _____
8   Pursat             30/12      6      Q      .   4    .    4    4    4
9   Rattanakiri         10/7      0               ; 3 .   2    3            0
10    *  Siem Reap      28/28      0          & .         6    0    0    0
Total  Total             378/230    32   .: S    64  6..    53   46   17
* shaded portion represents project period.
v  The numbersfor health centers that emergedfor 3 provincesfrom the health coverage plan workshops were
modifiedfor targeting under the project:
(a)    Battambang:  Given access considerations, though a total of 59 are to be
provided under the health coverage plan, 30 were targeted as realistic for the
project period.
(b)    Phnom  Penh:  Given the urban location of Phnom  Penh, and the greater
availability of both public and private health facilities, though the health
coverage plan estimates 39 health centers, the project would target 20 health
centers.
(c)    Siem  Reap: Given  access considerations, though a total of 57 are to be
provided under the health coverage plan, 28 were targeted as realistic for the
project period.
5.     The selection of health centers and referral hospitals for upgrading within each
province was based on the health coverage plan needs (determined by the provincial
workshops and mapping exercise described above) as well as phasing considerations taking
capacity (both staffing and managerial) into account.
6.     The project would therefore support upgrading and equipping of 230 Health Centers,
of which 173 would be new construction and 57 would be renovations (26 of the renovated
health centers would also have TB ward facilities). Existing district hospitals which are to be
converted into functioning health centers would be given priority for renovation purposes.



- 61 -                                      Anne 4
Table 3
REFERRAL HOSPITAL PHASING
No.  Name of          Total RHs   Yr. 0                                           Yr. 5
Province        targeted!    Govt.!     .............
achieved    other      .
donors
1    Battambang           3/3                                           . .....
2    K. Speu              3/3                     .   . .
3    K. Thom              3/3               ...
4    Kampot/Kep           5/4         1                                       X .
5    Kandal               5/5                 .+lbr                           ... .
6    Kratie               2/2               X..
7        Phnom            5/0                          ...... ... . ..
Penh_____             _
8    Pursat               2/2                             1 
9    Rattanakiri    X                                         . .-  .
10   Siem Reap           4/3          1         1
Total            228      X 2                                       6       0
* shaded portion represents project period.
**br = basic referral hospital.
*  Given its urban location and the 7 national hospitals in Phnom Penh, no referral hospital in Phnom Penh
will be upgraded under the project.
7.     The project would support upgrading and equipping of 26 referral hospitals, of which
8 would be basic referral hospitals and 18 would be full referral hospitals. Of the 18 full
referral hospitals selected under the project, 3 would be major renovations and 15 would be
minor renovations. Of the eight basic referral hospitals, two would be major renovations and
six would be minor renovations.



- 62 -                                        Annex 5
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF MEDICAL EQUIPMENT FOR HEALTH CENTERS
CONSULTATION
1 Otoscope set basic for clinic
2 Scale Adult
3 Sphygmomanometer Aneroid 300Mm
4 Stethoscope
5 Tongue Depressor 165Mm Metal
6 Thermometer Clinic Rectal
MINOR SURGERY
I Basin Kidney 475MI Ss
2 Bottle Wash Lab Use 250MI Polyethylene
3 Box For 4 Syringes Unmarked Aluminium
4 Brush Hand Surgeon White Nylon Bristles
5 Drum, Sterilizing Cylindrical 290 Mm Dia
6 Forceps Dressing Spring Type 155Mm Ss
7 Forceps Hemostat Straight Rochester Pean 160Mm
8 Holder Needle Straight Narrow-Jaw Mayo Hegar 160Mm
9 Knife Blade Surgical For Major Surgery # 22Pkt 5
10 Knife Handle Surgical For Major # 4
11 Metal Case 170X9OX40 Mm
12 Probe Round Point & Tongue-Tie 145Mm
13 Scissors Dissect Curved Mayo 145 Mmb/B SS
14 Scissors Surgical Straight 145 Mmb/B SS
15 Sterilizer Dressing Press Ckr 300X300 Mm 24L Fuel
16 Stove Kerosene Single Burner 2 Litres
17 Tray Instrument Covered 225X125X50Mm SS
18 Tray Instrument Shallow 343X247X16Mm SS
MA TERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH
1 Basin Kidney 475 Ml Ss
2 Bed Labour And Delivery W/Two Piece Mattress
3 Forceps Sponge Holding Straight 280Mm
4 Holder Needle Straight Narrow Jaw Mayo Hegar 160Mm
5 Scale Infant Clinic Metric 15,5Kg 5G
6 Scale With Trousers Infant Spring Type Hanging
7 Scissors Episiotomy Angular Braun 145Mm SS
8 Speculum Vaginal Bi Valve Grave Large SS
9 Speculum Vaginal Bi Valve Grave Medium SS
10 Speculum Vaginal Bi Valve Grave Small SS
11 Sphygmomanometr Aneroid 300Mm
12 Stethoscope Adult
13 Stethoscope Foetal Pinard Monaural
14 Tape Umbilical Non-Sterile 3Mm WidexlOOM Spool
15 Tape-Measure 1.5/60" Vinyl-Coated Fibreglass
16 Weight For Height Chart



- 63 -                                         Annex 5
VACCINATION SET
1 Ice Pack For Vaccine Carrier
2 Sterilizer Pressure Double Rack 84 Syringes Fuel
3 Vaccine Carrier 17-Litres Net Capacity
EMERGENCY SET
Stretcher folding type                                          I
|Tourniquet|
FURNITUREIOFFICE EQUIPMENT
Bed
Bench
Cabinet
Calculator
Chair
Clipboard
Desk
Diaper pail
Partition screen
Plastic utility basin
Shelvings
Table
Water filter
Water jar
White board
IN ADDITION REFRIGERATORS WILL BE PROVIDED FOR
25 HEALTH CENTERS IN REMOTE AREAS



- 64-                                         Annex 5
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT LIST: REFERRAL HOSPITAL
Pediatrics                                          Medicine
1 Aspirator, portable, foot operated               1 Basin kidney
2 Autoclave vertical                               2 Bottle, oxygen
3 Basin kidney                                     3 Box for 4 syringes aluminum
4 Box for 4 syringes AL                            4 Cart dressing I dispensing
5 Drum sterilizing cylindrical small               5 Drum sterilizing cylindrical small
6 Forceps dressing spring type 155mm ss            6 E chart
7 Forceps intubation Magill infant                 7 Forceps dressing spring type 155mmss
8 Forceps sponge holding straight                  8 Forceps sponge holding straight 200mmss
9 Height measurement unit, infant                  9 Needle, lumbar puncture
10 Laryngoscope                                    10 Needle, pleural puncture
11 Needle for lumbar puncture                      11 Occluder with pinhole
12 Needle for pleural puncture                     12 Ophthalmoscope-Direct
13 Otoscope                                        13 Otoscope
14 Resuscitator infant                             14 Reading test type
15 Scale infant                                    15 Scale adult
16 Scissors bandage                                16 Scissors bandage
17 Sphygmomanometer aneroid infant                 17 Sphygmomanometer aneroid
18 Stethoscope                                     18 Stethoscope
19 Stove kerosene                                  19 Stretcher army type folding
20 Tank oxygen + manometer                         20 Table examination
21 Thermometer oral/rectal                         21 Thermometer oral/rectal
22 Tongue depressor metal 165mm                    22 Tongue depressor165 mm metal
23 Tray instrument cover. 225x 125x50 mm ss        23 Torch with batteries
24 Tray instrument shallow 342x 243x16mm ss        24 Tray instrument shallow343x247x16 mm ss
25 Trocar for puncture ascites
26 Urinal female 900ml Polypropylene
27 Urnal male 1,5 i Polypropylene sterilizable
Surgery
i Autoclave vertical                                              Consultation
2 Basin kidney 475ml ss
3 Bottle wash for lab use 250ml polyethylene       1 Basin kidney 475 ml ss
4 Bowl, sponge 600ml ss                            2 Drum sterilizing cylindrical small
5 Brush,surgeon ,with nylon bristles               3 Hammer reflex testing Taylor solid rubber head
6 Cart dressing/dispensing                         4 Otoscope
7 Case, minor surgery                              5 Scale adult
8 Dressing set                                     6 Speculum nasal child 140mm ss
9 Drum sterilizing cylindrical small               7 Sphygmomanometer aneroid
10 Generator                                        8 Stethoscope
11 Leg splint                                       9 Thermometer oral /rectal
12 Oxygen bottle+regulator                         10 Tongue depressor 165mm metal
13 Plaster shears Stille AESCULAP 36cm             11 Tray instrument shallow 342x247 xl 6mm ss
14 Retractor plaster HENNIG 27cm
15 Scissors plaster
16 Sphygmomanometer aneroid
17 Splint -board aluminum
18 Stethoscope
19 Stove kerosene single bumer pressure type
20 Stretcher army type folding
21 Tray, instrument covered 225x125x50mm ss
22 Tray, instrument shallow 343x247x16mm ss



- 65 -                                      Annex 5
Obstetrics/Gynecology                                            TB
I Adult resuscitator                               I Adult scale
2 Aspirator, portable,foot operated                2 Basin Kidney
3 Basin wash shallow 4 liters ss                   3 Bottle, oxygen
4 Bed labor and delivery w/ two piece mattress     4 Box for 4 syringes AL
5 Box for 4 syringes AL                            5 Drum sterilizing cylindrical small
6 Clamp umbilical ss                               6 Forceps dressing spring -type 155mm ss
7 Dilatation -curettage kit                        7 Forceps sponge -holding straight
8 Drum sterilizing cylindrical small               8 Scissors bandage angular Lister 180mm ss
9 Forceps obstetrical - TARNIER                    9 Sphygmomanometer aneroid
10 Irrigator 1.51tr ss                             10 Stethoscope
11 Kidney basin 475 ml ss                          11 Thermometer oral/rectal
12 Light examining table articulated hosp. 110/220v  12 Urinal female 900 ml polypropylene
13 Oxygen bottle and regulator                     13 Urinal male 1.5 liters polypropylene
14 Pelvimeter Collyer external grad cms/ inches
15 Pump breast hand rubber bulb glass/ plastic                       Pharmacy
16 Scale Adult
1 7 Scale infant clinic metric 15.5kg x 5g          1 lce box
18 Scissors episiotomy Braun -Stadler 14 cm 1/2     2IRefrigerator
19 Scissors umbilical SCHUMACHER
20 Set dressing                                                     Laboratory
21 Sphygmomanometer aneroid
22 Stethoscope adult                                1 Alcohol lamp (with match)
23 Stethoscope foetal Pinard monaural               2 Analytical balance
24 Stove kerosene single bumer pressure type        3 Beaker 250ml
25 Syringe ear & ulcer rubber tip 90ml              4 Blade holder I
26 Syringe rectal infant rubber bulb hard tip 30ml  5 Blade holder 11
27 Tape- measure 1 .5m/60"viny / coated fiberglass  6 Brush for hemolysis tubes
28 Thermometer oral/rectal                          7 Brush for test tube (set of 4)
29 Tray instrument covered 225x125x50mm ss          8 Desktop mechanical timer
30 Tray instrument shallow343x247xl6mm ss           9 Dish staining glass
31 Urinal female 900ml Polypropylene               10 Droplet- counter flask
32 Vacuum -extractor MALMSTROM                     11 Flat bottom tank 500ml
33 Vertical autoclave                              12 Furnel
13 Graduated flask 100 ml
14 Graduated flask 500mi
15 Graduated pipette 1ml, 2ml, 5mi, 1OmI
16 Hematocrit reading rule
17 Hemolysis tube
18 Kidney basin
19 Laboratory wood holder
20 Mechanical desktop counter
21 Microscope Olympus
22 Mortar and pestle
23 Neubauer counting chamber
24 Pasteur pipette (1000 units)
25 Pasteur pipette bulb
26 Pen for writing on glass
27 Potain dilution pipette
28 Reagent storage flask
29 Rubber tube + plastic tip
30 Sahli hemoglobinometer
31 Sahli pipette
32 Sampling plate
33 Slide container with 100 slides



66-                                            Annex 5
Other Items - General                                         Laboratory (contd.)
1 Bedpan                                            34 Table- top centrifuge
2 Cabinets for drugs/instruments                    35 Test tube holder
3 Cart dressing/dispensing                          36 Test tubes
4 Chairs/Stools                                     37 Thomas dilution pipette
5 Examination Table                                 38 Three-way suction bulb
6 Hospital bed                                      39 Wash boKtle 125ml
7 Stand irrigator double hook type                  40 Water filter
8 Tables                                            41 Weighing spatula
42 Westergren holder
43 Westergren pipette (5 units)
44 Wicks for lamp
v                                                            __          _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _     _ _
The lists for full referral hospitals (which offer surgical facilities) differs from
the above list only in the obstetrics/gynecology, surgical and radiological
categories. The additional items for full referral hospitals for these three
categories are listed below.
Obstetrics/Gynecology                                          Surgery
1 Caeserotomy and Hysterectomy set (20 items)        1 Amputation set
2 Forceps biopsy Faure 24cm                          2 Anaesthesia Apparatus
3 Forceps bone BOER 29cm                             3 Laparotomy set
4 Forceps placenta and ovum                          4 Plaster shears Stille AESCULAP 36cm
5 Forceps placenta and ovum AESCULAP
6 Forceps ruptured IOWA 26cm                                      Operating Room
7 Forceps scalp flap WilleKt 18 cm 1/2
1 Airconditioner
2 Apparatus anesthesia + accessories
3 Aspirator electric 220V
4 Aspirator, portable, foot operated + 2 bottles
Radiology                                          5 Autoclave universal capacity (CSSD)
6 Basin wash shallow 6 litres
1 Alphabet lead(lset)                                7 Cart dressing/dispensing
2 Cassette with intensifying18x24                    8 Cart for oxygen tank
3 Cassefte with intensifying screen 35x43            9 Drum sterilizing large size
4 Cassette with intensifying screen30x40            10 Electrosurgical unit 220V
5 Developing hanger 18x 24                          11 Forceps intubation MAGILL adult
6 Developing hanger 30x40                           12 Forceps intubation MAGILL infant
7 Developing hanger 35x43                           13 Laryngoscope set of 3 slides
8 Eye glasses, protection                           14 Light operating ceiling
9 Gloves lead rubber protection x                   15 Negatoscope
10 Lead apron                                        16 Stand double-bowl type without bowl
11 Negatoscope                                       17 Stand single-bowl type without bowl
12 Pump aspirating electric 220v+ 2 bottles          18 Stretcher, combination wheel and knockdown
13 Tank developing film                              19 Table anesthesia on casters without tray
14 Test pen                                          20 Table instrument MAYO with tray
15 X-Ray Machine                                     21 Table operating
22 Ultraviolet lamp



- 67 -                                        Annex 6
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIST OF PRIORITY DRUGS SUPPORTED
UNDER THE NATIONAL DRUG SUPPLY SYSTEM
No.             DESCRIPTION             No.              DESCRIPTION
MED. ORAL                38 PPHEN METH PENICILLIN
1 ACETYL SALICYLIC ACID               39 PHENOBARBITAL
2 ALUMINUM HYDROXIDE                   40 PRAZIQUANTEL
3 AMINOPHYLLINE                       41 PREDNISOLONE
4 AMOXYCILLIN                          42 PROMETHAZINE
5 CEFTRIAXONE                         43 PROPRANOLOL
6 CHLORAMPHENICOL                      44 PYRAZINAMIDE
7 CHLORPROMAZINE                       45 RIFAMPICINIISONIAZID
8 CHLOROQUINE (BASE)                  46 SALBUTAMOL
9 CIMETIDINE                           47 SPECTINOMYCIN
10 CIPROFLOXACIN                       48 SULFADOXINE/PYRIMETH
11 CLOXACILLIN                         49 TETRACYCLINE
12 COTRIMOXAZOLE (pediatric)            50 THIABENDAZOLE
13 COTRIMOXAZOLE (adult)               51 QUININE
14 DIAZEPAM                            52 VITAMIN B1
15 IDIGOXIN                       I|.    MED. INJEC7IONS
16 DOXYCLINE                           53 AMINOPHYLLINE
17 ERYTHROMYCIN                        54 AMPICILLIN
18 ETHAMBUTOL                          55 ATROPINE SULPHATE
19 ETHAMBUTOL/ISONIAZID                56 BUTYLSCOPOLAMINE
20 FERROSULFATE+FOLIC ACID             57 BUPIVACAINE 0,5%
21 |FOLIC ACID                         58 CALCIUM GLUCONATE 10%
22 |FUROSEMIDE                          59 CHLORAMPHENICOL
23 HYDRALAZINE                          60 CHLORPROMAZINE
24 HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE                 61 CLOXACILLINE
25 INDOMETHACIN                         62 DEXAMETHASONE
26 ISONIAZID                           63 DEXTROSE 50%
27 LUGOL Goutte                        64 DIAZEPAM
28 MEBANDAZOLE                          65 DIGOXIN
29 MEFLOQUINE                          66 DOPAMINE
30 METHYLDOPA                          67 WATER FOR INJECTION
31 METRONIDAZOLE                       68 EPHEDRINE (FOR DILUTION) 1ml
32 MICONAZOLE                          69 EPINEPHRINE/ADRENALINE
33 MULTIVITAMINS                        70 ERGOMETRINE METHYL
34 NICLOSAMIDE                          71 FENTANYL 2ml
35 NYSTATINE Pessary                   72 FUROSEMIDE
36 ORS                                  73 GENTAMYCIN
37 PARACETAMOL                          74 HYDRALAZINE



Annex 6
-   68  -_ _ _ _ _
No.             DESCRIPTION           No.    DESCRIPTION
f  MED. INJECTIONS (contd.)         109 TETRACYLINE 1%
75 HYDROCORTISONE                      110 ZINC SULFATE COLL.
76 KETAMINE                           VII.  MATERIALS
77 LIDOCAINE 1 %                       112 ADHESIVE TAPE ZINC OXIDE ROLL
78 LIDOCAINE 2%/ADRE 0.01 %            113 BAGS, BLOOD (CPDI + TAKING SET
79 METOCLOPRAMIDE                      114 BAGS, URINE COLL. WITH TAP
80 METRONIDAZOLE                       115 BANDAGE, CREPE
81 OXYTOCIN                            116 BANDAGE GAUZE NON-STERILE
82 PENICILLIN BENZATHINE               117 BLADES FOR SURGICAL KNIFE
83 PENICILLIN-G, IM/IV                 118 BLOOD TRANSF. SET W/ NEEDLE
84 PENIPROCAINE+PENI-G                 119 CATHETER, FOLEY
85 STREPTOMYCIN                        120 CATHETERS, IV (VENFLONI
86 VITAMIN Bl (THIAMINE)               121 CONDOMS
87 VITAMIN K                           122 COTTON WOOL
88 VECURONIUM                          123 DRAINAGE STRIP IDELBET)
/i1.  PERFUSIONS                         124 GAUZE COMP. PARAFFIN IMPR.
89 DEXTROSE 10%(+SET)                  125 GAUZE ROLLS
90 DEXTROSE 5% (+SETI                  126 GLOVE EXAM NON-STERILE LATEX
91 DEXTRAN 70(+SET)                    127 GLOVE SURGICAL STERILE/REUS.
92 NSS 0.9%(+SETI                      128 NEEDLE SUTURE CUTTING
93 RINGERS LACTI+ SET)                 129 NEEDLE SUTURE ROUND
IV.  EXTERNAL USE                        130 NEEDLES, LUER, REUSABLE
94 BENZ. ACID 6%+AC SALIC.             131 NEEDLES, SPINAL DISPOSABLE
95 BENZOATE BENZYL 25%                 132 NEEDLES, DENTAL REUSABLE
96 CHLOREX 1.5%+CETRIM.15%             133 PLASTER OF PARIS ROLLS
97 GENTIAN VIOLET                      134 SCALP VEIN
98 ZINC OXIDE 10%                      135 SHARPENING STONE
99 PODOPHYLLINE pommade                136 STERILE EYE PADS
100 POVIDONE IODINE 10%                 137 SUT/ CATGUT PLAIN TRN 1/2 35mm
101 CALAMINE LOTION                     138 SUTI NYLON TRN 3/8 30mm
102 VASELINE                            139 SUT/ NYLON TRN
V.  OPHTHALMIC USE                       140 SUT/METALLIC wire for tendon-30cm
103 ATROPINE SULPHATE 1 % COLL          141 SUT/SILK 6mm needle
104 FLUORESCEIN EYE STRIPS              142 SUT/ VICRYL RB 1/2 16mm
105 GENTAMYCIN 1 % COLL                 143 SUT/ VICRYL RB 3/8 30mm
106 PILOCARPINE 2% COLL                 144 SYRINGES, GLASS
107 PREDNISOLONE ACET. 1 % COLL         145 SYRINGES, PLASTIC
108 TETRACAINE 0.5% COLL.               146 TALC



-69 -                                         Annex 6
No.             DESCRIPTION             No.               DESCRIPTION
VIl.  MATERIALS (contd.J                VI.  MATERIALS /contd.)
147 TAPE UMBILICAL NON-STERILE3mm       158 X-RAY FILM
148 TAPE TEST FOR AUTOCLAVE             159 FIXER
149 TAPE/STRIPS, TEST FOR POUPINEL      160 DEVELOPER
150 THERMOMETER ORAL                    161 PLASTIC BAGS FOR TABS
151 THORAX DRAIN +TROCAR                162 PLASTIC BAGS
152 TUBES CONN. DRAIN "REDON            163 ZINC OXIDE / EUGENOL
153 TUBES DRAIN "REDON"                 164 GLASS IONOMER
154 TUBES LIAISON FOR "REDON"           165 PLASTIC MATRIX
155 TUBES SUCTION DISPOSABLE            166 AMALGAM
156 TUBES, NASOGASTRIC                  167 METAL MATRIX
157 VALVE - ANTI RETOUR                 168 LUBRICANT



- 70 -                            Annex 7
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Arrangements
I.    The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be the implementing agency for both the CDCP
and the ADB-assisted Basic Health Services Project (BHSP). A Steering Committee
consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF), Ministry
of Planning (MOP), Cambodia Development Council (CDC) as well as senior MOH staff
will provide overall technical and managerial direction during project implementation.
2.    The central Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will manage the timely and efficient
implementation of the CDCP and BHSP, and activities common to both projects will be
financed jointly by the two projects (Finance and Administration Unit). In addition, activities
specific to each project will be managed by the respective sub-unit within the PCU. The PCU
will rely on the line departments in MOH (Planning and Statistics, Budgeting, Financial
Department, Director General of Health, etc.) and the national institutes (CENAT, CNM,
NAO) to provide technical guidance and supervision to the local implementation units in the
project provinces. Also, appropriate technical resources will be identified to form an
advisory group, for providing specialized inputs into the implementation process.
3.    The provincial health authorities will be responsible for the overall management and
supervision of project activities at the provincial level and will act as the link between the
central PCU/MOH and the operational district health system. A Provincial Project Unit
(PPU), headed by a Provincial Project Director, will be established in the ten provinces
receiving provincial inputs and will be responsible for project implementation at the
peripheral level.
Figure 7.1
Organization Structure
|Minister|
Steering Committee
Chairman: Minister of Health
Members: Financing, Planning, National Bank, Customs, Auditor..
Secretary General: Project Director
Project Director
Project Deputy Director
Project Coordination Unit, MO"
Project Manager
Provincial Project Unit
Project Provincial Health Director



- 71-                             Annex 7
The detailed structure of the Project Coordination Unit is described below:
Figure 7.2
PCU
Manager
Chief, Finance and       Chief, World Bank        Chief, ADB
Administration Unit    Project Operation Unit  Project Operation Unit
- Disburs/Accounting     - Planning/Budgeting
-Assistant to Chief      -Monitor/Supervision
Procurement/logistics   -Technical Liaison
Assistant for Procurement            Malaria
Secretary                            TB
-  Driver                               HIV/AIDS
Health Service Strengthening
Construction Manager



- 72 -                            Annex 7
Staffing
4.    Members of the Steering Committee will be assigned by the agency which they would
be representing on the Committee. The Steering Committee will meet every six months and
all secretarial and logistical support for these meetings will be provided by the PCU.
5.    The Project Director and Deputy Director will be high level MOH officials and will
perform their duties as Project Director and Deputy Director in addition to their normal
duties.
6.    The PCU will have three kinds of personnel: international contractual staff, local staff
and   government  staff-on-leave.   The  following   positions  are  identified:
* PCU Manager, will be in charge of the overall management of the PCU. He/she will be
appointed by the MOH and approved by the Steering Committee and the World Bank and
ADB. The Manager will be recruited on an international basis and serve for a minimum
period of two and one half years, during which time training of a local replacement would
be achieved.
*  Chief, World Bank Project Unit, will be selected by the Manager of the PCU and
appointed by the MOH, and subject to approval by the World Bank. Three contractual
staff will assist him/her in project planning/monitoring and technical liaison.
*  Chief, Finance and Administration Unit, will be selected by the Manager of PCU and
appointed by the Minister of Health and subject to approval by the World Bank and
ADB. Three contractual staff, namely the Chief Procurement Officer, Chief Accountant
and Administrative Secretary, will assist the Finance and Administrative Chief in his/her
duties. In addition, three support staff may also be hired as necessary.
Functions
Steering Committee:
*  Approve the Annual Action Plan and Budget for the CDCP.
*  Review any proposals for amendment to the Credit Agreement before sending to
the Government and the World Bank.
*  Review and approve the appointment of the Manager and Unit Chiefs of the
Project Coordination Unit.
*  Review the progress reports and supervision reports, and make relevant policy
decisions.
*  Mobilize resources from the member ministries/agencies to support the CDCP's
implementation.



-73-                             Annex 7
Project Director and Deputy Director:
*  Liaise with the Steering Committee on project implementation issues
*  Review the Annual Action Plan and Budget and submit to the Steering Committee for
approval.
*  Review the appointment of the Manager and Unit Chiefs of PCU, and submit to the
Steering Committee for approval after consulting with the World Bank and Asian
Development Bank;
*  Consult with the World Bank and Asian Development Bank on policy decisions before
submitting to the Steering Committee;
*  Lead the supervision team, which involves key staff from MOH, the national institutes
and the provincial health directorates, to inspect the facility construction quality,
equipment distribution/utilization, and local health workers' performance, and to assure
the activities under CDCP and BHSP are carried out as planned.
* Review the Bidding Document and Bids Evaluation Report for International Competitive
Bidding before submitting to the government and the World Bank through the Project
Director.
* Review expenditures and replenishment applications for the World Bank special account.
Project Coordination Unit:
3  Prepare the draft Annual Action Plan and Budget.
3  Execute and follow-up on the decisions made by the Steering Committee and the Project
Directors.
3  Coordinate closely with the line departments in MOH, the National Institutes, and the
project provinces, and ensure that all the activities are carried out in conformity with the
approved Annual Action Plan in terms of budget and schedule.
3  Liaise with the member ministries/agencies of the Steering Committee on policy support
for the implementation of CDCP and BHSP.
*  Liaise with the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and other foreign financiers, and
respond promptly to their requirements concerning the implementation of CDCP and
BHSP.
*  Organize training courses or study tours for PCU staff and provincial project officers, in
order to strengthen the skills needed for project monitoring, procurement, disbursement
and accounting.
*  Develop administrative procedures and file/record keeping system for CDCP and BHSP,
maintain all documentation related to the Project (including government decree, minutes
of Steering Committee and Coordination Committee meetings, routine progress reports
and field supervision reports, correspondence with the World Bank or Asian
Development Bank, etc.), and provide secretarial services to the Steering Committee and
Coordination Committee.
*  Organize field supervision teams, monitor implementation progress, and consolidate all
information related to the CDCP Project into the periodic Progress Report for review by
the Steering Committee, Coordination Committee and the World Bank.



- 74 -                           Annex 7
* Carry out procurement of goods and civil works in conformity with the government
regulation and the World Bank Procurement Guidelines, including preparing detailed
technical specifications and bidding documents, opening and evaluating the bids,
awarding and signing the contacts, receiving and inspecting the goods (works), arranging
distribution and installation of goods, and collecting information and keeping records for
all kinds of procurement under CDCP and BHSP.
*  Select and hire foreign and local consultants in conformity with the government
regulation and the World Bank Guidelines for Consultant Services, including drafting
Terms of Reference and Letter of Invitation for Proposal, assessing the proposals and
signing the contracts.
*  Operate the Special Account established exclusively for CDCP and BHSP, withdraw
funds from the Special Account for eligible project expenditures, apply for replenishment
or Direct Payment from the World Bank, and keep all transaction records, monthly
statements and annual reports for review by the authorized auditor and the World
Bank/ADB.
*  Operate a Counterpart Funds Account established separately from the normal budgetary
account of MOH, release the funds to the implementation units, and keep transaction
records, monthly statements and annual report for review by the authorized auditor and
the World Bank/ADB.
*  Provide logistical services for the visiting missions from the World Bank and Asian
Development Bank.
7.   In order to obtain specific technical support, the following specialists will be
identified and hired as local consultants as necessary:
* One pharmacist for drug specification and quality control.
* One engineer for medical equipment specification and evaluation.
One construction manager to oversee the contracting, bidding and construction of
facilities.
8.    The PCU will manage both the proposed World Bank -assisted CDCP as well as the
ADB-assisted BHSP. However, the detail staffing of the ADB operation unit will be
finalized by ADB and MOH.
Budget
9.    The Government will provide office space for the PCU. The World Bank project and
ADB project will share equally the following PCU expenditures:
* the PCU manager
* the staff costs, operating cost, supplies and equipment for the Finance and
Administration Unit.
10.   The assignment of specific costs to the two projects will be decided by the
Administration and Finance Chief The World Bank Project will cover the costs of the
World Bank Operation Unit.



- 75 -                            Annex 7
Terms of Reference for Key Staff of PCU/MOH
PCU Manager
11.   This is a full-time, senior official position appointed by the Minister of Health and
reporting to the Project Director. He/she would be the project manager of CDCP and BHSP,
and will have overall responsibility for project implementation and the running of the PCU.
He/she will also act as the secretary-general of both the Steering Committee and the
Coordination Committee for CDCP. He/she will sign all written reports or correspondence
sent by PCU to the World Bank or other government agencies. He/she is the authorized
person to access the Special Account and sign the Withdrawal Application. He/she makes
decision on hiring of staff and consultants.
Qualifications:
8 years experience working in MOH, 3 years at a senior position;
strong coordination ability with planning, financing or managerial
background;
fluency in English.
Chief, World Bank Operation Unit
12.   This is a full-time, senior official position appointed by the Minister of Health. He/she
will be responsible for drafting the Annual Plan and Budget, organizing supervision
activities, liaison with implementation units, collecting data and drafting progress reports.
Qualifications:
6 years working experience, and 2 years at a senior position;
strong planning and budgeting ability with monitoring/evaluation background;
fluency in English and good computer skills.
Chief of Finance/Administration Unit
13.   This is a full-time, senior official position appointed by the Minister of Health.
He/she will be responsible for supervising the staff maintaining the: (a) filing system for
PCU, (b) providing administrative and logistical services for PCU, (c) procuring goods and
works according to the Annual Action Plan, (d) operating the bank accounts and (e) keeping
the accounting books. He/she will be the alternative person authorized to access the Special
Account while the Manager is absent.
Qualifications:
6 years working experiences, and 2 years at a senior position;
strong administrative background with some procurement experiences;
fluency in English.
14.   The World Bank Project Operation Unit will employ a full-time internationally
recruited construction advisor for two years. After two years, a local consultant will fill the
position for an additional three years.



- 76-                            Anex7
Chief Accountant of PCU
15.   He/she is responsible for: (a) disbursement of eligible expenditures, (b) preparing
withdrawal applications to the World Bank, (c) keeping the complete accounting books of
CDCP and BHSP, and (d) preparing annual accounting report for auditing. He/she will
supervise the cashiers' work.
Qualifications:
hold an accounting certificate from an accredited financial/accounting
institute;
5 years relevant work experience;
fluency in English and good computer skills.
Chief Procurement Officer of PCU
16.   He/she is responsible for: (a) phasing and packaging of procurement, (b) organizing
the technical advisory groups to prepare specifications for equipment, drugs and civil works,
and (c) organizing bidding or shopping, evaluating the bids and making recommendation for
awarding contract. He/she will supervise the assistant procurement officer and provide
guidance on provincial procurement activities.
Qualifications:
5 years experience with large quantity of procurement financed by public
funds or international agencies;
familiarity with government regulations on contracting, taxation, customs,
inspection;
fluency in English.



- 77- A-nnx
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Management Agreements (HMA)
1.    These are intended to be a jointly agreed and committed plan among the Ministry
of Health (MOH), provincial health management, and provincial civil administration (the
provincial governor's offices). They will agree to the substance of health inputs,
processes/ activities, and outputs as well as the processes of planning, organizing, and
managing health services, including how these Agreements themselves will function.
They will be planned in the context of 5-year goals and expected outcomes and long term
impacts.
2.    These Health Management Agreements (HMA) should become the basis for how
health is planned and managed. They should change the nature of the relationship
between the MOH and the Provinces. However, they are proposed, not for the sake of
change, but with a single overall purpose of improving performance of public sector
health services.
3.    The Agreements have the following characteristics. They will:
(a)   be formulated and agreed annually, but will have no legal status as such;
(b)   involve the following groups in the process' who will each sign the
agreement:
(i)   Provincial Governors' Office representatives;
(ii)   Provincial Health Directorate representatives;
(iii)  Ministry of Health [MOH] representatives; and
(iv)  the Project Coordination Unit [PCU].
(c)   usually be prepared in the Provinces during planning workshops;
(d)   define a planning, operating and monitoring/evaluation framework. This
may be done in project management software.  This will provide
consistency of various health functions [e.g. case management], and will
allow comparisons:
See draft example HMA format in the Project Implementation Plan for a more
detailed listing of all proposed organizational units who are likely to participate in the
process.



- 78 -                          Annex 8
(i)   across programs; and
(ii)  across provinces;
(e)   specify responsibilities according to the major stages in operations -
inputs, activities, and process outputs;
(f)   have process outputs as the primary focus, which is a change from past
management focus which tends to focus on inputs and activities;
(g)   make a clearer division of labor and responsibilities so there is little doubt
who does what, not only between the Provinces and the MOH generally,
but among the organizational units within the MOH and Provinces which
may be expressed in sub-agreements annexed to the main Agreement;
(h)   have clear indicators of performance so that they are measurable and
objectively monitorable;
(i)   have clear performance consequences that are known to all parties in
advance that are clearly defined and categorized; and
(j)   remain flexible in their design and use - both the Agreement's content and
in the manner in which they are planned, implemented, and monitored.
4.    The content of these Agreements and the manner in which they will be
implemented was reviewed by a cross section of managers from all signatory parties.
This review culminated in a one-day Workshop during the pre-appraisal mission during
which all parties concluded that the Agreements were both desirable and feasible. They
should be tried during the first year of the Project with the Phase I provinces. This should
be considered a trial year. Full implementation will be only at the beginning of the
second project year. Therefore, there is some time to prepare the exact nature of the
Agreements and further orient managers to their use. Using these Agreements as the
"centerpiece" of managerial relationships requires:
(a)   majority of managers and staff contributing or expressing their views on
the changes;
(b)   improving overall performance of the MOH at any level, and improving
motivation and morale;
(c)   improving relationships with related public sector managers: e.g.
Governors, other Ministers, etc.
5.   In order for these Agreements to have a meaningful impact on public sector
performance, concurrent improvements in the following are also needed:
(a)   improving managers' knowledge and skills;



- 79 -                                Annex 8
(b)    changing  MOH   organization  structures  and  management  systems
including:
(i)    national MOH structure;
(ii)    provincial health  structures including  relationships with  the
governors' office;
(iii)   district health structures;
(iv)   related changes in responsibilities, authorities, and accountabilities;
(v)    a health information system  [HIS] to support actual decision
making
(vi)   resource  procurement and  distribution  including: drugs  and
supplies, equipment, transport, and facilities; and
(c)    improving staff technical knowledge and skills in order to be able to
deliver on the Agreements' commitments at reasonable quality levels.
Figure 8.1
6.     Figure        8.1
outlines    the    basic
outlines    the    basicHealth Management Agireements
structure    of      this                           MOH - Provincial Relationships
agreement between the
central MOH  and  the             p-nvieinputon.
provinces.   Figure  8.2         ....
below outlines the types            Impute                    Prvin  to
of inputs  and  actions                                       e"Itmof A a
each of the three parties        Poli m. 
would agree to. Ideally           Ipedt M-nitoring
this type of Agreement           Cenprl inkild Service s                       Oul
would  also  be  made             Ashl        Senrice Actvites              Immunized Chilmn
between  the  provinces                        Pubgc Heath                   PevnlodCurd
and  the  districts, but                       Health Eduation              TB & Maluri
currently  most districts                     Supervlsior                    Haly Mothers &
are judged managerially                       InformIt n
too weak to undertake
this type of agreement in
the early stages of the Project. As district's become developed through the Accelerated
District Development (ADD) program, they could enter into sub-agreements with the
provinces.



-80 -                            Annex 8
Figure 8.2
Health lM,a riaavemenrt Aa reeme rntm
MOCH - =Irovincial FleIlationships
n | isintry of I-ealth 
Policy Frame
Impact Monltoring
Central Services
Inputs - In kind 8 cash
Provinciel  H_aith                                    ncial
EMDr_ctorat_t                                _   ornor'. O)fQfict 
Service Activitas                               Land
Public Hmalth                                   FadIc
Helaith Eiducatlon                              Community Involvement
Sup_rvii-onlTraining                           COth_r ministry coordinatlon
Informatlon                                     Admin oupport
7.    The HMA format will be a selection of indicators by input, by output, and
outcome; all of which will be attainable on an annual basis. The format must be
consistent across provinces. Part of the Agreement should also define the specific steps
in the process by which Agreements are planned, implemented, monitored, and evaluated
along with the consequences for good and poor performance [see Sections IV and V of
the HMA example in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for details of what is
currently proposed]. These steps may be agreed only once at the beginning of the project
or they may be "re-agreed" each year. However this is done, the development and use of
these Agreements must relate to the total Government/MOH planning, implementing, and
monitoring/evaluation cycle.
8.    A format for district level planning is being developed by the MOH. This same
structure can and should be used at the provincial level so that district plans can be
aggregated into provincial plans. In order to ease the planning of repetitive tasks and
operations management/monitoring, it is suggested that all this information be entered in
project management software. The draft district planning format information can all be
accommodated in common project management software. This computer supported
planning and management can be done only at the provincial and national level (PCU)
until computers are provided to districts. This application can be one of the uses of the
computers the Project is providing to the provinces. The workplans generated by the
software can also be a formal part of the HMA process. They can be aggregated to form
the basis for the overall annual Project plan. The HMA system will be monitored from
the central MOH by the Provincial Project Unit, as well as the PCU, and should be



- 81 -                          Annex 8
implemented in a phasing which is linked to the overall Disease Control and Health
Development project implementation and supervision.
9.    The completed provincial HMA can then be disaggregated into program/project
components and the parts given to the respective program managers. These would, at a
minimum, cover the health strengthening investments and the three disease control
programs, TB, malaria, and HIV/AIDS in a component-specific workplan. Those
workplans could be centrally aggregated by each program at the Ministry level to produce
a master workplan.
10.   While these are not contracts, in order to verify participation and agreement, the
HMAs should be signed by the major concerned parties - the provincial Governor or
his/her representative, MOH representative, the provincial health director, and the Project
Coordination Unit. The provincial health advisors (HAs) and donor organizations
assisting a given province should be included in the preparation of the annual plan and
subsequent HMA negotiations with the MOH. Other donors' specific inputs, activities,
and outputs may also eventually be included in the HMA later.
11.   The Agreement commits three parties - the MOH, the Provincial Governors
Office, and the Provincial Health Directorate - to a variety of actions and results. The
process of Agreement planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation will be given
primary support and supervision by the MOH's Provincial Coordination Section (PCS)
and secondary supervision by top management of the MOH, the Royal Government's
central agencies, and the donors, in particular the World Bank. [see Figure 8.3] This
indirect supervision will usually be carried out during missions coming at six monthly
intervals. The joint World Bank/ADB Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will assist PCS
in Agreement implementation, reporting progress, and problem identification/analyses for
these missions.



- 82 -                             Annex 8
Figure 8.3
Health Management Agreements
First and Second Level Management & Supervisory Relationships
iRoyal Govemment 1i
prrn.stssnwProv ac                      and mana      t an g
the statusofambodisHealth d    s       i       Governor's t
/          ~~~~Directorate                     Office   :\
Donors/ iMO                                                                       L
The World t                                                                Tophe
Bank  f                                                               Managementds
12.   If any party to this Agreement fails to satisfy their commitments, the parties will
meet to discuss the relevant issues and agree to steps to remove such constraints on
performance. As this is a new approach to program planning and management, and given
the status of Caembodias health delivery system, it is expected that there will be
adjustments in the HMA processes in the first one tNwo  years of implementation. In the
case  of severe  breach   of perfoatance  targets, and  the  inability  of 'second
level'management to resolve the issue, the issue may be taken  up to first level
management for decision.
13.   All parties have the right and obligation to assess whether they themselves and all
others are in or out of compliance with the Agreement. A case may be made at any time
if the situation seems especially serious, but generally these assessments will be made
during joint program/project supervision missions. No party will be expected to perforTn
at 100 percent for 100 percent of all the elements in their set of respective commitments.
However, generally the "80/80" rule should be the performance guideline. The "80/80"
rule implies good and acceptable performance is: 80 percent on-time/on-quantity/on-
quality performance for 80 percent of the elements within the HMA.



-83 -                           Annex 8
14.   Nevertheless, judgments on compliance/out-of-compliance will need to take into
account unexpected factors for the first one to three years. Objective assessment of
performance would have to be based on objective information. The development of
monitoring and research systems with their requisite information systems, while generally
good in MOH, may not be operating at levels to produce valid and reliable information
before that time. Until that time, out-of-compliance will jointly be judged on the basis of
intent to perform according to the Agreement. That is, can a case be made that the
concerned party was genuinely trying to perform.
15.   If there is a dispute over performance and the indicators of the intent to perform,
the MOH PCS [with the support of the Project's PCU] will be the initial arbitrator of the
performance assessment. If the dispute can not be resolved at this level, then the matter
will be forwarded to the next formal Project supervision mission. The Bank and top
management of the MOH, [if necessary with the assistance of the Royal Government's
central agencies] will resolve the matter.
16.   Just as a judicial system  has various consequences for various acts; the
consequences of out-of compliance performance should follow a spectrum according to
the seriousness. Conversely performance above levels of commitment can result in
increased rewards and resources.



- 84 -                                 Aex 9
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Performance Indicators
1.    The monitoring indicators for the Disease Control and Health Development Project
(CDCP) intend to capture the progress and impact of two different but related aspects of:
(a) IDA financing of specific inputs and activities as part of an integral project and (b) when
possible, the relationship- of IDA-financed inputs to the processes, outcome and impact
performance of the three national health programs being supported by the project.
2.    The indicators will be defined, measured and reported as part of a process that is linked
with the day-to-day details of Government's management and execution of the project and the
overall programs. The key indicators would provide signals of underlying processes and
determinants of project performance which are feasible to monitor during project
implementation. In addition to the overall project indicators, specific performance goals and
objectives will be negotiated and agreed to annually between the Ministry of Health and each of
the ten provinces supported by the project. The performance indicators will be included as part
of the Health Management Agreements. (see Annex 8, Health Management Agreements).
3.    The definition of indicators selected to monitor and evaluate overall project
implementation progress and results are described in Part A below. Part B provides the detailed,
specific list of input, outcome and impact indicators against which each of the project
components will be assessed.
A. Indicator Definition
4.    Loan Disbursement Rate (semi-annual; ITF-financing specific), defined as the cumulative
amount of project expenditures incurred by the Government and withdrawn from Loan proceeds
as a percentage of the total Loan amount. Actual disbursements would be measured against the
projected disbursement schedule (Annex 12)
5.    Project Milestones (annual; project-wide scope). Actual accomplishment of project
milestones would be measured against the agreed upon project implementation schedule.
Milestones would include the negotiating, signing, monitoring of the Health Management
Agreements with the 10 provinces, employment of consultants, delivery of key outputs,
completing planned training and IEC, establishment of the HIV grant program and others as
defined in the project implementation schedule (See Annex 13).



- 85 -                                  Annex 9
Project Inputs:
6.    The project can be considered a set of inputs (civil works, equipment, transportation,
drugs and supplies, training, technical assistance) designed to allow the desired program
activities (service delivery, institutional strengthening, research) to be undertaken in order to
achieve desired outcomes and impact. The performance indicators for input will determine if
they are adequate in quantity and timely in procurement.
7.    Input Accomplishment Rates (semi-annual; project-wide scope), defined as the
cumulative quantity of physical accomplishments attained by the project expressed as a
percentage of total physical targets. This would include facilities constructed or rehabilitated,
and equipment installed for the 10 targeted provinces. For drugs, the project will monitor
procurement and delivery according to the national drug procurement plan.   Actual
accomplishments would be measured against total project objectives for each of the 10 targeted
provinces and upon physical implementation schedules negotiated annually in the Health
Management Agreements.
Program and Project Outputs
8.    Program Delivery Accomplishment Rates (first, third and fifth year, program-wide) for
all three disease control programs, the project will monitor qualitative improvements in the case
management of the diseases by assessing provider performance against predefined clinical
standards. For TB, the project will monitor the total number of cases treated and cured. For
malaria, in addition to case management, the project will monitor program performance in the
distribution, household coverage and sale of bed nets to high risk populations and to the targeted
communes. The number of staff trained specifically in disease control protocols and procedures
will be monitored. For HIV/AIDS, the project will monitor the number and the value of NGO
grants, the number of TV and radio programs produced and other indicators as outlined below.
9.    Service Availability Indicators (first, third and fifth years of project; project-wide scope),
defined as the proportion of total public health facilities capable of delivering the minimum
package of services as defined in the Government's Health Coverage Plan (health centers and
referral hospitals). Capable of delivery is defined as having available in a referral hospital and
health center the physical facility, equipment, trained staff and supplies necessary to deliver the
minimum package of services defined in the Health Coverage Plan. It should be noted that the
range of services available in the coverage plan include but are not limited to the specific
services supported by the project, i.e. tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/STDs. Service availability
would be expressed in terms of the ratio of actual to expected new or rehabilitated facilities that
are capable of service delivery in each of the 10 provinces. A complete health facility and
equipment baseline survey is being conducted in the 10 project provinces and will be completed
by project appraisal.



- 86 -                                  Annex 9
Outcome/Impact
10.   Access to and Utilization of facility Indicators (first, third and fifth years of project;
project-wide scope), defined as the proportion of the population residing within a set distance in
terms of normal travel time of health centers and referral hospitals capable of delivering health
services (as defined in para. 9 above). Service access would be expressed as a proportion of the
population with access to service, and would be compared to a baseline determined at the start of
the project. Facility utilization would be monitored using two indices: (a) the number of clinic
or outpatient visits by facility; the first post rehabilitation year utilization figure will be
considered the baseline (b) trends in percent of hospital bed occupancy will be monitored .
11.   Risk Reduction Indicators (first, third and fifth years of project; program-wide scope).
The project objective is to assist the Government reduce the risk to the Cambodian population of
three priority health problems including: malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/STDs. The project will
seek to monitor how project inputs assist the national programs for Malaria, Tuberculosis and
HIV/STDs, achieve improvements in the national program outputs and impact through the
reduction in risk. The project will monitor case fatality and death rates, prevalence, and cure
rates for TB and Malaria.
12.   Malaria. Two sets of key indicators would be used to monitor the national program
progress in reducing the risk of malaria. First, the project will seek to assess reduction in case
fatality rates (case management) and second, assess the actual reduction in the incidence of
malaria among high risk individuals and populations (vector control and prevention).
13.   Monitoring improvements in case management, the project will, in addition to monitoring
the continuous supply of service inputs necessary for malaria case management (see para. 7.
above), conduct two assessments of health provider skills and performance in the diagnosis and
treatment of malaria cases. Actual provider performance will be assessed against the predefined
case management standards and protocols for the various drug-resistant forms of malaria.
Malaria outcome and impact will be monitored by observing trends in case fatality and death
rates, incidence, prevalence and the distribution of household bednet coverage in highly endemic
areas.
14.   The major program strategy to reduce malaria transmission (prevention) is to expand the
use of impregnated mosquito bednets. The project will monitor the coverage and use of bednets
by two different target populations. The objective is to achieve 80 percent impregnated bednet
use by the population in the 347 highly endemic communes identified for bednet targeting and
distribution. A second objective is to reach as many as possible of the migrant population at risk
through the social marketing of bednets. The project will monitor the program performance in
raising sales of marketed bednets to targeted high risk groups and areas of the country, based on
surveys conducted in the first and final years of the project.



- 87 -                                 Annex 9
15. Tuberculosia. The two key tuberculosis program impact indicators are the_Annual_Risk
of Infection (ARI) and TB prevalence. The risk of infection is an index of the magnitude of the
tuberculosis problem in a society. The risk of infection at any point in time indicates the current
magnitude of the rate of recent infections and can be used to estimate the prevalence of infectious
cases in the population. In addition, it gives an indication of the tuberculosis problem in the
future. A decline in the ARI is an early indicator of a reduction in the transmission of
tuberculosis. Conversely, an increase could signal new risk factors, such as HIV infection or the
breakdown in the national control program. Exact measures of prevalence by survey is a more
costly but more accurate measure than estimates derived from ARI. A baseline national TB
prevalence survey will be conducted in the first year of the project. These figures will be used as
initial targets to monitor overall progress of TB case management by the national program. The
total number of cases treated and cured will be monitored. as will trends in case fatality and TB
death rates.
16.   HIV/AIDS/STD. The outcome/impact indicator for this component is behavior change
leading to a reduction in HIV and STD incidence. Given the difficulty in measuring incidence,
the practice is to measure prevalence through surveys of high risk populations. For HIV, this
will be undertaken annually and for STDs it will be undertaken every two years. To monitor
changes in behavior, surveys will be undertaken to determine changes in behavior related to risk
reduction during sexual encounters. Supplementing understanding of the course of the HIV
epidemic, information about the prevalence of HIV among blood donors will be gathered on a
continuous basis. It has to be recognized that the latter measure is not a reliable measure of
incidence of HIV in the population, as changes in policy about the acceptability of donors may
significantly alter apparent levels of HIV in the population.



- 88 -                                         Annex 9
B. Detailed Indicators by Project Component
Component              Indicator
HEALTH
STRENGTHENING
Input                   Total number of facilities rehabilitated and equipped; by province:
InPut                     - basic referral hospitals (without major surgical facilities)
- full referral (with major surgical facilities)
- health centers
- health centers with TB beds
Number of facilities constructed and equipped:
- basic referral hospitals
- full referral
- health centers
Quantities of essential drugs, reagents, laboratory equipment and materials provided
Output                   % of 8 total basic referral hospitals rehabilitated and equipped
% of 18 total full referral hospitals rehabilitated and equipped
% of 57 health centers rehabilitated and equipped
% of 173 new health centers completed and equipped
% of facilities fully staffed and offering a full minimum package of services
% of facilities out of stock for essential, TB, malaria and STD drugs
Outcome/Impact           % at or above access norm
Increasing annual utilization rates for facilities
MALARIA
Input                  Number of bednets procured
Laboratory and other equipment procured and installed
Renovation of CNM office
Number of training courses provided
Output                 % of health providers judged skilled and knowledgeable in the case management of
malaria
% of hospital cases managed appropriately according to protocols for each type of drug
resistance
% of authorized facilities with fully trained staff
(% of highly endemic communes achieving 80% population coverage of bednets)
Outcome/Impact         Case Fatality Rate
Malaria Death Rate
Malaria Incidence
Annual number of bednet sales; by high risk groups and in target areas
Reduction in the incidence in the highly endemic communes



- 89 -                                         Annex 9
TUBERCULOSIS
Input                 Staff training courses provided
Renovation of Central HQ facility
Central lab equipment provided and installed
TB microscopes procured and distributed
Output                Total number of staff trained
Renovations complete and equipment installed
% of patients receiving food supplementation
Number of short course therapy cases completed annually
Outcome/Impact        TB prevalence
% TB cases cured
Case Fatality Rate
Annual Risk of Infection (ARI)
HIV/STDs
Input                 Additional blood transfusion centers established
Workshops for outreach program
Condoms purchased
Workshops for STD case management training
Survey of STDs
HIV surveillance surveys
Behavioral surveys
Output                Number of TV and radio programs produced
Number of peer educators trained
% of STDs managed correctly
Number of NGO grants awarded
Outcome/Impact        Blood tested for HIV
Decline in STDs
Decline in HIV incidence
Decline in the incidence of STDs



-90-                                       Annex 10
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
Table 10-1: Project Component by Year - Total Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1996    1997    1995    1999    2000    Total
A. National Programs
1. TB Control                             1.1      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.7      3.3
2. Malaria Control                         1.0     0.8      0.7      0.7      0.7      4.0
3. HIV/AIDS Control                        1.6     1.6      1.4      1.3      1.4      7.2
Subtotal National Programs                   3.      Z.       2.       Z.       Z.      145
B. Health Service Strengthen
1. Facility Upgrading                       -      2.5      3.5      3.5      2.7    12.2
2. Equipnient & Transportation              -      1.5      1.3      0.4      0.1      3.2
3. Essential Drug Supply                    -        -      0.8      0.9      0.9      2.6
4. In-service Training                     0.1     0.0      0.1      0.1        -      0.2
5. MOH Strengthening                      1.2      0.6      0.4      0.3      0.3      2.9
Subtotal Health Service Strengthen           1.      4.       61.
Total PROJECT COSTS                          4.       7.       8.      77       6.      3
Table 10-2: Expenditure Accounts by Year - Total Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1995    11995        99I    1999    2000    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                             1.7     2.2      1.9      0.9      0.8      7.5
B. Drug                                 0.1        -      0.8      0.9      0.9     2.7
C. Civil Works                          0.4      2.5      3.4      3.3      2.5    12.1
D. Local Training                       0.5      0.4      0.4      0.5      0.4      2.2
E. Foreign Training                     0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.8
F. Local Consultant                     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.6
G. Foreign Consultant                   0.6      0.7      0.3      0.3      0.3      2.2
H. Studies                              0.7      0.5      0.4      0.4      0.4      2.5
I. Grant                                0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.7
Total Investmnent Costs                   4.       6.       7.       6.       57      3
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Cost                       0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      2.0
B. Supplies                             0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.2
C. Prov. Superv. Cost                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2
D. Maintenance for Equipment            0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.6
E. Maintenance for Civil Works          0.0      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.3     0.7
F. Staff Remuneration                   0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.5
Total Recurrent Costs                     07                0.       1.      1.        4.
Total PROJECT COSTS                        4        7.       8.      77       6.      35.



Table 10-3: Expenditure Accounts by Component - Total Including Contingencies
Health Service Strengthen
National Programs                                  Essential
(US$ Million)                           TB    Malana  HIV/AIDS   Facility    Equipment &       Drug    In-service       MOH
Control Control  Control  Upgrading  Transportation    Supply    Training   Strengthening   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipmnent                           1.1      2.0       1.1          -             3.0          -           -            0.4      7.5
B. Drug                                   -      0.1         -          -               -        2.6           -              -      2.7
C.CivilWorks                            0.2      0.1       0.2       11.6               -          -           -            0.0    12.1
D0 Local Training                       0.7      0.3       0.8          -             0.0          -         0.2            0.2      2.2
E. Foreign Training                     0.3      0.1       0.3          -               -          -           -            0.0      0.8
F. Local Consultant                       -        -       0.2          -               -          -           -            0.4      0.6
G. Foreign Consultant                   0.1      0.2       0.9          -               -          -           -            1.0      2.2
H. Studies                              0.3      0.3       1.5          -               -          -                        0.4      2.5
I. Grant                                  -        -       0.7          -                    -           -                    -      0.7
Total Investment Costs                    2.7      3         5.        1                3.         2.          0.2            2.5    31.                     'D
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Cost                       0.2      0.6       1.1          -               -          -           -            0.1      2.0
B. Supplies                             0.1        -       0.1          -               -          -           -              -      0.2
C. Prov. Superv. Cost                     -        -         -          -               -          -           -            0.2      0.2
D. Maintenance for Equipment            0.0      0.1       0.1          -             0.2          -           -            0.1      0.6
E. Maintenance for Civil Works          0.1        -       0.0        0.6               -          -           -            0.0      0.7
F. Staff Remuneration                   0.2      0.2       0.1          -               -          -           -              -      0.5
Total Recurrent Costs                     u6        .        106                        0.2          -           -            0.4    74.
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                      3 32 7.  122  3.  2.   0              2. 



Table 10-4: Expenditure Accounts by Component - Base Cost
Health Service Strengthen
National Programs                                Essential                                        Physical
(US$ Million)                 TB    Malarna  HIVIAIDS   Facility    Equipment &    Drug    In-service      MOH                  Contingencies
Control Control  Control  Upgrading  Transportation   Supply    Training   Strengthening   Total     %    Amounr
1. Investnent Costs
A. Equipment                  1.0     1.8       1.0         -             2.7          -          -            0.3      6.8     5.0      0.3
B. Drug                        -      0.1         -         -               -        2.3          -              -      2.3     5.0      0.1
C. CivilWorks                 0.2     0.1       0.2       9.7               -          -          -            0.0    10.2      5.0      0.5
D. Local Training             0.6     0.2       0.7         -             0.0          -        0.2            0.2      1.9     4.9      0.1
E. Foreign Training           0.3     0.1       0.3         -               -          -          -            0.0      0.7     5.0      0.0
F. Local Consultant            -        -       0.2         -               -          -          -            0.3      0.5     4.6      0.0
G. Foreign Consultant         0.1     0.2       0.8         -               -          -          -            0.9      2.0     4.8      0.1
H. Studies                    0.3     0.3       1.3         -               -          -          -            0.4      2.3     2.6      0.1
I.Grant                        -        -       0.7         -               -          -          -              -      0.7       -        -
Total Investnent Costs          f.       7        5.     T .                2.7     2.            0.3    Z7.                      46
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Cost             0.2     0.5       0.9         -               -          -          -            0.1      1.8     4.7      0.1
B. Supplies                  0.1        -       0.1         -               -          -          -              -      0.2     5.0      0.0
C. Prov. Superv. Cost          -        -         -         -               -          -          -            0.1      0.1     5.0      0.0
D. Maintenance for Equiprment  0.0    0.1       0.1         -             0.2          -          -            0.1      0.5     5.0      0.0
E. Maintenancefor Cil Work    0.1       -       0.0       0.5               -          -          -            0.0      0.6     5.0      0.0
F. Staff Remuneration         0.2     0.2       0.1         -               -          -          -              -      0.4     5.0      0.0
Total Recurrent Costs            5      03                  0.              0.2          -          -            0.3      3.6     4.       0
Total BASELINE COSTS            3        3.       65        1                2.9       Z.          0.             2.6    3.        47       1.
Physical Contingencies        0.1     0.2       0.3       0.5             0.1        0.1        0.0            0.1      1.4       -        -
Price Contingencies           0.2     0.3       0.5       1.5             0.2        0.2        0.0            0.2      3.1     4.8      0.1
Total PROJECT COSTS             3        4        7.        l Z.             3.2                                              -- -TZ  Z  3  5  1.
C)



-93 -                            Annex 10
Table 10-5: Projet Component by Financer
Intenatonal
Government of    Delopment
(US$ Milion)                              Cambodia        Asoclsaton          Total
Amoount   To   AMOUnt    T    Amount    %
A. Natonal Progrms
1. TB Control                           0.4    11.7      2.9    88.3      3.3      9.4
2. Malaria Control                       1.3    32.2      2.7    67.8      4.0    11.2
3. HIV/AIDS Control                      1.1    15.4      6.1    84.6     7.2    20.3
Subtotal Natonal Programs                  2.8    19.1 ----        8         4.     4.
B. Helth Service S btngthen
1. FacilIy Upgrading                     1.8    14.5    10.4    85.5    12.2    34.2
2. Equipment & TransportlSon             0.2     6.7      3.0    93.3      3.2     9.0
3. Essontial Drug Supply                 0.0       -      2.6   100.0      2.6     7.3
4. In-seice Traning                      0.0       -      0.2   100.0      0.2     0.6
5. MOH Strengteing                       0.4    14.4      2.4    85.6      2.9     8.0
Subtotal Health Service Stre en            Z.4T- T       1X7    88.T   21.1 5T79.2
Total Disbursemnt                                                85.        35.    iW.o



- 94 -                                      Annex 11
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Matrix
Contracts           Amount         Procurement Method     Approval        Disbursement
(US$)                                               Documentation
Civil Works              < 50,000        Direct Contracting    Ex-post Review      SOE
< 100,000       National Shopping    Ex-post Review       SOE
> 100,000      National Competitive   Ex-post Review      SOE
Bidding
> 200,000      National Competitive    Prior Review    Full Documentation
=__ __ __ ___ __ __  ___  Bidding  _
Goods & Equipment        < 25,000        National Shopping    Ex-post Review       SOE
< 100,000      National Competitive   Ex-post Review      SOE
Bidding
> 100,000          International     Prior Review    Full Documentation
________________ |Competitive Bidding
All Drugs               < 100,000           International    Ex-post Review        SOE
Competitive Bidding
> 100,000          International     Prior Review    Full Documentation
Competitive Bidding
Technical Assistance  Firms < 100,000   Consultant Guidelines  Ex-post Review      SOE
Firms > 100,000    Consultant Guidelines   Prior Review    Full Documentation
Individuals < 50,000  Consultant Guidelines  Ex-post Review   SOE
Individuals > 50,000  Consultant Guidelines   Prior Review    Full Documentation
Operating Expenses                       National Shopping    Ex-post Review       SOE
Provincial
Supervision                               Direct Contracts    Ex-post Review       SOE
E xpenses__            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Grants              <5,000                                   Ex-post Review        SOE
Grants              >5,000                                    Prior Review  I Full Documentation



- 95 -                                  Annex 12
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Fiscal   Calendar  EAP Reoion   Project
Semester   Year        Year       Average   Estimation
1st                 19w          U'O         U'/O
2nd      FY97                    3%          0%
1st                 1997         6%          7%
2nd      FY98                    14%         14%
1St                 1998        22%         26%
2nd      FY99                    30%/o       37%
1st                 1999        42%         49%
2nd      FY00                    50%         61%
1st                 2000        62%         72%
2nd      FY01                    74%         82%
1st                 2001        86%         91%
2nd      FY02                    94%        100%
1St                 2002        100%
Dibursment Profile
100%
90%  i
80%.
70% _x
*60%
E  40%                                                          -O-Esm   j
20%
10% 
Calendar Year



-96-                                 Annex1
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pre   mpm            Schedule
1.    The project is complex with a number of organizations involved and
organizational units within the MOH. All the implementation managers will have to
manage many of their respective responsibilities cooperatively as there are many
interdependent tasks.
2.    The Project Implementation Plan, Volume 1, contains a Summary Project
Workplan. This contains only the major tasks which must be performed during the first
year of this Project. Note that for all 11 sub-components, the tasks total to 1086 separate
steps, an indication of the importance of project management software to assist in project
management. The Project Coordination Unit will update the summary workplan based on
inputs from the component managers in the MOH and provincial Health Directorates.
3.    The major headings of the workplan in the Project Implementation Plan are
"Summary" tasks. In fact most all entries in this presentation are a summary of more
detailed tasks, and these can be found also in the Project Implementation Plan, Volume 1,
as part of each component's chapter. These were prepared by the Ministry of Health with
training from the World Bank task team. The World Bank will refer to the baseline
workplans for the purposes of project supervision.
4. ,  The workplans prepared for the PIP is part of a process designed to be part of the
Health Management Agreement annual formulation (see Annex 8), and the tasks agreed
and negotiated will fit into revised workplans by component.



- 97 -                           Annex 14
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
DISEASE CONTROL AND HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   IDA Supervision lrpul. The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, supervision
report preparation and correspondence (estimated for this project to require six staff weeks
per year throughout implementation).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   Annual work plans and budgets for the project, including the Health
Management Agreements, would be prepared by each central MOH
department and institute responsible for implementing specific project
activities, and each participating province. The plans and budgets of the
central departments/institutes would be reviewed by the appropriate technical
and financial staff of the MOH and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The
supervision plans of the provinces would be reviewed by the Project Director
and PCU, and would be agreed upon between the PCU and the provinces. The
MOH, PCU and the participating provinces would also be responsible for
negotiating the Health Management Agreements.
(b)   Semi-annual reports would be prepared by the PCU in a format to be agreed
upon with IDA during the project launch mission. The reports would:
(i) include a concise, narrative section describing major project achievements
and problems encountered; and (ii) utilize a simple, tabular account to show
details of actual accomplishments compared to agreed upon plans. The initial
progress report would be due on June 30, 1997, with successive reports due on
December 31 and June 30 of each year until project completion. The reports
would constitute the basis for the semi-annual project performance reviews to
be conducted by the Government and IDA.
(c)   Monitoring and reporting of implementation progress in accordance with the
annual plans would be the responsibility of the PC, with inputs from the
relevant MOH departments/institutes and the provincial project units. The
PCU would also be responsible for organizing annual workshops to review
implementation progress with provinces, which would be timed to support the
annual updating of the Health Management Agreements.
(d)   The PCU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for supervision
missions, and for providing information required by missions. Mission
briefings upon arrival and wrap-up meetings would be presided over by the
Project Director or a designated representative.



-98-                                e14
(e)   The PCU would prepare and submit to IDA within six months of the Closing
Date, a final evaluation report on the project and a plan for the future
operation of the completed project.
3.    Field Supervision Plan
Approximate Dates                  Activity                    Staff Inputs
(staff-weeks)
07/96       Project launch/initial supervision mission       6
12/97       Semi-annual review mission                       6
06/97       Semi-annual review mission                       4
12/97       Semi-annual review mission                       6
06/98       Semi-annual review mission                       4
12/98       Semi-annual review mission                       6
06/99       Mid-term review mission                          8
12/99       Semi-annual review mission                       4
06/00       Semi-annual review mission                       6
12/00       Semi-annual review mission                       4
06/01.      Semi-annual review mission                       6
12/01       Semi-annual review mission                       6
06/02       Final supervision/ICR mission                    8
Note: ICR = Implementation Completion Report
(a)   Semi-annual reviews of project performance would be normally held in June
and December of each year to assess progress in project implementation.
(b)-   A comprehensive mid-term review would be completed on June 30, 1999 to
determine any need for modification to the design and implementation targets
of all project components.
(c)   Each IDA supervision mission would: (i) require at least two weeks in the
field; (ii) the services of specialists in public health including disease control,
civil works, and project management/implementation on a regular basis; and
(iii) review progress of procurement, financial statements and disbursements,
Credit covenants and the implementation of technical assistance and training
activities. Specialized skill requirements would be added to the missions
according to needs identified by previous supervision missions and would
include, among others, the following: malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS control
programs, health financing, grant administration, outreach program
strengthening, health center commissioning and sample survey methodologies.



-99-                           Annex 15
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Ministry of Health. National Health Development Plan 1994-1996. Prepared by
Planning Unit, Ministry of Health in June 1994.
2.    Ministry of Health. Guide for the Strengthening of the District Health System in
Cambodia. Prepared by the Planning Unit, MOH in May 1995.
3.    Ministry of Health.  National Tuberculosis Programme Plan 1993-1997.
November 1993.
4.    Ministry of Health. National Malaria Control Programme: Summarv of Activities
1996-2000. Prepared by National Malaria Center and WHO, Phnom Penh in 1995.
5.    Ministry of Health. Comprehensive National Plan for AIDS Prevention and
Control in Cambodia 1993-1998. Prepared by the National AIDS Committee in 1993.
6.    Ministry of Health. Essential Drugs Progress Report: January - June 1995.
Prepared by the Pharmaceutical Department in July 1995.
7.   Institute of Khmer Habitat. Disease Control and Health Development Project:
Design Model for Health Center and Referral Hospital. March 1996.
8.    Bowman, C. Disease Control and Health Development Project: Civil Works Sub-
component. March 1996.
9.    Braden, C.  Disease Control and Health Development Project: Cambodia
Tuberculosis Control Study. March 1995
10.   Champeaux, A. Disease Control and Health Development Project: Tuberculosis
Patients Food Supplementation: Evaluation of Utility. April 1996.
11.   Hill, J. Disease Control and Health Development Project: Implementation Plan
for Mosquito Net Distribution and Treatment. December 1995.
12.   Population Services International. Disease Control and Health Development
Project: Feasibility Study for the Distribution and Marketing of Impregnated Mosquito
Nets (IMNs) and Retreatment Services for Malaria Prevention in Cambodia. April 1996.
13.   Colin, A and Adam, G. Disease Control and Health Development Project:
HIV/AIDS in Cambodia: An Outline Strategy for IEC. Prepared by Health Unlimited in
March 1996.
14.   Herm, J. Disease Control and Health Development Project: Organization and
Management Component Report. August 1995.



-100 -                          Annex 15
15.   Oppenheimer, E.  A Rapid Assessment of Drug Abuse in Cambodia and
Concomitant HIV Risk Behaviors. November 1995.
16.   Dunn, J. Demographic Working Practices and AIDS Awareness of Commercial
Sex Workers in Tuol Kork Dike Area, Phnom Penh. Cambodia. April 1995.
17.   Asian Development Bank. Basic Health Services Project. Prepared by Technical
Assistance team in September 1995.
18.   Put, W. Emptv Hospitals. Thriving Business: Utilization of Health Services and
Health Seeking Behavior in Two Cambodian Districts. April 1992.



IBRD 27986
THAILAND             ,,)                                            'LAO  PEOPLE'S DEM. REP.          'CAMBODIA
<   f   ;   ~~~~~~~~~  _tX                 rS ~~~~~~~~PROJECT
7 tS                                             k                     ARC                        X                      !0Chet=_,~~~~IEMEA-ODARVIEA
T. 8_9                                                       Ph-| Thr 9                                I                                     AD A,<- PRVN-E UNE T HEN 
't              MEA_CHEY                                                                                                  BASIC/ HEAVLVIETNM  'aS P.DOR.CT
W \-- gf v WA D ) \ 2~~
J ~     ~ MEN7E      *                                                                                                         SELECTEAK      2-t .      :BDI C
SioonouwilleC  <  )_  L  >> - --- ) EjPhA _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRVICECAITL
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TN                               TRN                                                 AIOA CAI _& -,._TA'Lo,
0~~~~~~- S2 T50 Mie              0                                                                                                       hRUINS









IMAGING
Report No:       15596 KH
Type: SAR



