Report No. PIC2942
Project Name       Cambodia-Disease Control and Health Development Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Health
Project ID                     KHPA4034
Borrower                       Government of Royal Kingdom of Cambodia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Health (MOH)
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
Contact: Director, Project Coordination Unit
Fax: 855 23 26841
Tel: 855 23 66337
Date PID Prepared              October 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       March 1996
Projected Board Date           July 1996
Country Background:
The development prospects of Cambodia are strongly shaped by three
constraints: poorly developed official institutions and services as a
result of 20 years of war and international isolation; a depleted human
resource base due to the destructive policies of the Khmer Rouge
government in the 1970s; and a continuing rural insurgency that isolates
certain areas of the country and distorts government expenditures.
These constraints are balanced by long term development potential based
on valuable assets: abundant mineral and forest resources, compelling
tourist attractions, extensive arable land, trade and investment
opportunities with the dynamic economies on its borders, and a tenuous
but functioning democracy. The Bank+s country assistance strategy and
the Government+s development objectives thus are structured to address
the above constraints in the near term and in the longer term to expand
the productive sustainable use of the country±s considerable assets and
endowments. The proposed project would address a key aspect in human
resource development by investing in primary health care in Cambodia.
Current Status of the Health Sector:
Cambodia suffers from a very high burden of mortality from preventable
and curable diseases. Over half of Cambodia+s population carries the
TB bacillus, and from this pool of infection, each year 40,000 new
active cases of TB occur, making TB a leading cause of death among
young adults. Malaria is also a leading killer, causing over 5000
deaths a year out of 500,000 probable cases, and with drug resistance
a major problem for treatment strategies. HIV/AIDS has grown
geometrically each year into an epidemic, with some risk groups
reporting up to 40t sero-positive for HIV. Basic health indicators are
highly unfavorable, even for a country as poor as Cambodia ($200 GDP
per capita). For example, infant mortality is estimated at 120 per
1,000 live births and maternal mortality ratio around 900 per 100,000
live births. The average life expectancy of men is only 47 years and
that of women less than 50 years



Project Objectives:
The project aims to support the Government of Cambodia in pursuing
its two principal health sector objectives: (i) reduce deaths and
sickness from preventable disease, especially malaria, TB, and
HIV/AIDS; and (ii) rehabilitate the system infrastructure so as to
deliver basic health services more effectively down to the primary
service level.
The strategy to attain these objectives embraces the following
principles:
- building up the relevant national disease control programs;
- more direct MOH links on policy, budget and management to
provincial and district systems;
- expanding national budgetary support for the system; and
- more effectively coordinating donor support to fill identified gaps
in financing.
Project Rationale
The project would support a two track approach of disease control with
health system strengthening. Given the financial, institutional and
manpower constraints, the project is being tailored to meet urgent
public health needs in the country. It would focus resources on three
priority national programs while providing the necessary upgrading to
basic health services to ensure effective implementation of the
identified disease control programs.
Under support for national communicable disease programs, the three
programs chosen for assistance are tuberculosis, malaria and HIV/AIDS.
This is because of the very high mortality rates associated with these
diseases, the high cost effectiveness rankings of the interventions to
control them (based on global estimates), inadequate donor support for
these programs compared to other programs, and the Government+s
priorities. The project would fund financing gaps at the national
level for these three priority programs.
The project would support limited rehabilitation and expansion of the
public delivery system (of basic services), in keeping with the
National Health Coverage Plan of the government. The investments in
basic health strengthening would be directed towards removing
constraints in the delivery of public health interventions and basic
curative care (including the national programs) at the grassroots
level, as well as reinforcing the integration of these services at the
peripheral levels. In addition, the project will emphasize selected
management reforms to improve management practices and orient the
public health system to performance and results.
Project Description
The components of the project are as follows:
1. Health Strengthening Component
- 2-



Within the health strengthening component, the project will support
investments primarily at the provincial level and below in the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of referral hospitals and health
centers, new equipment for those facilities, essential drugs including
drugs for treatment of malaria and TB, equipment and civil works for
regional training centers, technical assistance and training support,
and general program support costs at the provincial and lower levels
for the malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS programs.
2. TB Component
In the TB control component, the existing program supports case
detection through hospitalization of active cases for a period of 60
days and initiation of the short course chemotherapy regimen. Critical
sub-components that are under resourced include treatment (drugs,
laboratory diagnostic support); institutional development (management,
clinical training, facility upgrading); and monitoring, evaluation and
research. The project would support the current program strategy by
providing assistance to these under-funded areas.
3. Malaria Component
For the Malaria component, the two pronged strategy of disease
management and vector control being implemented under the National
Cambodia Malaria Program would be followed. In addition, the project
would support preparation studies to determine the most cost effective
method of distributing bednets on a national scale.
4. HIV/AIDS Component
The project will fund blood supply management and safety (with other
donors) and a full program of sentinel surveillance of risk groups and
regions to better understand the path of the epidemic and the
targeting of risk groups. Target provinces will receive a full time
AIDS control officer and the capacities of the national AIDS Office to
manage a multi-faceted control effort will be developed. A Grant Fund
will support innovative projects aimed at reducing high risk behavior
among heavily infected groups, operational research, and education and
information projects carried out by non-Governmental entities.
5. MOH Strengthening
This component covers investments in the capacity of MOH to manage
national programs and policies and the costs of running the Project
Coordination Unit. It would include minor renovation and construction
of MOH administration facilities. The component would also provide
support as necessary for the expansion of the Health Information System,
funding for a center-provincial/district communication system and
necessary health surveys.
Project Implementation:
The project would be implemented by MOH over a period of five years. In
order to define Province-MOH expectations and responsibilities under the
project, draft performance agreements are planned. They would serve as
- 3-



a tool to facilitate smooth implementation of the project. In addition,
a Project Coordination Unit would be set up within MOH, with a
corresponding provincial project director in the 10 participating
provinces.
Project Cost and Financing:
Estimates of total CDCP project costs are at a preliminary stage, but
IDA contributions are not expected to exceed US$30 million.
Project Sustainability:
To ensure the sustainability of the project investments, a
sustainability analysis will be undertaken during the next mission,
building on the overall financing framework completed during the
preparation mission, and extending that financing picture past the
completion of the project to determine if government revenues under
reasonable scenarios will be adequate to fund the incremental
recurrent burden created by the project.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The balance of constraints and endowments in Cambodia is more favorable
in the health sector than in others. Major donors, UNICEF and WHO, have
been engaged in Cambodia for many years, working to strengthen local
service delivery (UNICEF+s provincial health advisers, immunization and
essential drugs programs) and to build policy and management capacities
at the central MOH (WHO with UNDP). Also, the Bank has supported the
development of the essential drugs logistics system through the
Emergency Rehabilitation Project. As a result of the considerable
technical assistance and limited financing provided by donors, the MOH
and its provincial partners are considered a comparatively capable
sector in the Cambodian context. In addition, the Malaria, TB, and
HIV/AIDS control programs have benefited from long term TA and limited
financial support to enable them to launch pilot and first phase control
efforts.
Poverty Category:
Program of Targeted Interventions.
Environmental and Social Aspects:
The project would not have an adverse impact on the environment.
Program Objective Categories:
The project would support the control of three priority communicable
diseases at the national level as well as invest in improvements in
basic health services in 10 provinces. These are highly cost-effective
public health interventions which would reduce the direct and indirect
health costs imposed by these diseases. Succesful implementation of the
project would also enhance the productivity of the labor force by
improving the health status of the population, thereby contributing to
poverty alleviation.
-4-



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



