Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N005 KH
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Disease Control and Health Development Project)
between
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the Interim 
Trust Fund established with funds contributed by certain members 
of the International Development Association pursuant to Resolution 
No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the International 
Development Association
Dated March 26, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N005 KH 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1997, between KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") as administrator (the 
"Administrator") of the interim trust fund (the "Interim Fund") established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the "Interim Fund Resolution") of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS: (A) By the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
WHEREAS: (B) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
and
WHEREAS: (C) The Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the requirements 
set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors 
of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by the 
Administrator from time to time; and "Participating Countries" means, 
collectively, all such countries;" 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations." 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means the acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
(b)
"CENAT" means the Borrower’s National Anti-Tuberculosis Center, 
established in  the MOH;
(c)
"CNM" means the Borrower’s National Malaria Center, established in the 
MOH;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year, and the term "Fiscal Years" means, collectively, more than 
one (1) Fiscal Year;
(e)
"Grants" mean grants made or proposed to be made by the Borrower, out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, to a Grantee to finance HIV and AIDS related 
services to be provided under Part A. 3 (e) of the Project to groups at high risk of 
contracting HIV and AIDS, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(f)
"Grantee" means a non-governmental organization or a private entity to 
which the Borrower proposes to make, or has made, a Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
"Health Management Agreement" means the Health Management Agreement to be 
entered into between the MOH and each Province, referred to in sub-paragraph 3 (b) of 
Schedule 1 and in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and such term includes 
all schedules to said Health Management Agreement;
(h)
"HIV" means the human immunodeficiency virus;
Page  3
(i)
"MOH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health, established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Royal Decree dated November 1, 1993;
(j)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, referred to in Section 6.01 
(a) of, and in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to, this Agreement;
(k)
"PPUs" means the Provincial Project Units, referred to in Section 6.01 
(B) of, and in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to, this Agreement, and the term "PPU" means, 
individually, any one of said PPUs;
(l)
"Phase I Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of Battambang, 
Kampot/Kep, Kandal, Kompong Speu, Phnom Penh, and Siem Reap;
(m)
"Phase II Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of Kompong Thom, 
Kratie, Pursat, and Rattanakiri;
(n)
"Project Implementation Program" means the program for implementing the 
Project, referred to in Sections 3.01 (b) and 5.01 of, and set forth in Schedule 4 to, 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
July 4, 1996, between the Borrower and the Association;
(p)
"Province" means any one of the Phase I Provinces or Phase II Provinces;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and  
(r)
"STD" means a sexually transmitted disease, and the term "STDs" means, 
collectively, sexually transmitted diseases.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of Cambodia (the 
Borrower’s Central Bank), or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Administrator, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including, in the case of a 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual 
Date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)   Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each January 15 and July 15, commencing January 15, 2007, and ending July 
15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2016 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded seven hundred ninety dollars ($790) 
in constant 1985 dollars for five (5) consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent 
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association, and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Administrator may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, health, and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds (including foreign exchange), facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  5
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
Afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including, but without limitation, the MAFF) 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
Have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
Furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
Furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
Maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
Retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
Enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
Ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Borrower shall have failed 
to carry out the Project Implementation Program, or any part thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely:
(a)
That the Borrower shall have established the PCU and appointed its 
personnel, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; and
(b)
That the Borrower shall have established each of the PPUs for the Phase I 
Provinces and appointed each of said PPU’s manager, all in accordance with the 
provisions of sub-paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III, IV and V of 
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate, or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, which 
ever shall be the earlier.
Section 6.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund, pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution, and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Daun Penh Street
Sangkat Wat Phnom
Phnom Penh
Kingdom of Cambodia
Telex:
(855 23) 427-798
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  7
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
By /s/ Keat Chhon 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of the International
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184
of the Board of Governors of the International Development 
Association
By /s/ Jean Michel-Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  6,854,000
90%
(2)
Goods (except
  4,472,000
100% of foreign 
medical equipment)
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally 
(3)
Medical equipment
  1,697,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for 
other
items procured 
locally
(4)
Consultants’ services,
  4,948,000
100%
training and studies
(5)
Operating costs
    543,000
85%
Page  8
(6)
Provincial
     68,000
85%
supervision costs
(7)
Grants
    475,000
100% of Grant 
amount
(8)
Refunding of the
  1,000,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
(9)
Unallocated
    543,000
TOTAL              20,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
The term "Operating costs" means expenditures by PCU personnel for 
travel, subsistence allowances, supplies and communications; and
(d)
The term "Provincial supervision costs" means expenditures by PPU staff 
for travel, subsistence allowances, and supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; or (b) payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, in respect of Part B of the 
Project, unless the MOH and the corresponding Province shall have entered into a 
Health Management Agreement, in form and substance acceptable to the Administrator, 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods 
under contracts valued at less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) each; (ii) works under contracts valued at less than the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) each; (iii) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms valued at less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) each; (iv) contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each; (v) overseas and local 
training; and (vi) Operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (i) reduce death 
and sickness from preventable diseases, especially malaria, tuberculosis, HIV and 
AIDS; and (ii) rehabilitate its health system infrastructure, so as to deliver basic 
health services and disease control programs more effectively down to the community 
level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A:
National Program Support
1.
National Tuberculosis Program
(a)
Improvement of the quality and accessibility of tuberculosis services in 
selected health centers and referral hospitals, including provision of laboratory 
equipment, reagents and supplies.
(b)
Strengthening of CENAT’s institutional capacity through:
Page  9
(i)
Local and international training of CENAT staff in drug treatment 
and tuberculosis program supervision;
(ii)
Renovation and upgrading of CENAT offices, including provision of 
office equipment and vehicles; and
(iii)
Provision of technical assistance.
(c)
Carrying out of epidemiological surveys, including provision of related 
equipment.
2.
Malaria Control Program
(a)
Improvement of the access by patients to early and accurate medical 
diagnosis, and the prompt and effective treatment of malaria, including provision of 
laboratory equipment to selected health centers and referral hospitals.
(b)
Expansion of the community-level use of insecticide-treated mosquito 
bednets, through:
(i) 
provision of bednets, insecticide and related equipment for bednet 
treatment;
(ii) 
carrying out a pilot social marketing program to test the 
feasibility of bednet distribution through commercial channels;
(iii)  provision of vehicles;
(iv) 
provision of training to malaria control program staff on the                
treatment and use of bednets; 
(v)  
preparation and dissemination of information, education and               
communication materials; and 
(vi) 
conducting operations research on alternative cost effective                                                 
personal protection methods.
(c)
Strengthening of CNM’s capacity to manage, supervise and monitor the 
Borrower’s national malaria control program through:
 (i)
staff training in malaria treatment and control, including 
scholarships abroad; 
(ii)
renovation and upgrading of facilities, including provision of 
office equipment and vehicles; and
(iii)
provision of technical assistance.
(d)
Carrying out of selected evaluation and research studies on malaria 
related subjects.
3.
HIV and AIDS Program
(a)
Institutional Development
(i)
Strengthening of the Borrower’s National AIDS Office in the MOH, 
through the provision of equipment, supplies, staff training, and 
technical assistance.
(ii)
Strengthening of the Borrower’s provincial HIV and AIDS programs, 
through the provision of equipment, vehicles, supplies and 
training to provincial health directorates.
(b)
Prevention Programs
(i)
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower’s National AIDS 
Office in the MOH in the preparation of communication strategies 
for information and education on AIDS, and for the dissemination 
of public information on AIDS.
(ii)
Strengthening of the Borrower’s blood banking services through: 
Page  10
(A) provision of testing reagents for HIV screening to blood 
transfusion centers; (B) provision of training in counseling to 
staff of the National Blood Transfusion Center; (C) establishment 
of about eight (8) provincial blood transfusion centers; and (D) 
provision of technical assistance.
(iii)
Expansion of the Borrower’s National AIDS Office’s outreach 
program to raise AIDS awareness throughout the Borrower’s 
territory, including the provision of vehicles, supplies, training 
for outreach workers and peer educators, and condoms to STD 
clinics and outreach programs. 
(c)
Treatment Program for STDs
(i)
Strengthening of the Borrower’s National Center for Dermatology 
and Venereology, through the expansion and upgrading of the 
central laboratory, and training of central, provincial and 
district health staff in the syndromic diagnosis and management of 
STDs.
(ii)
Establishment of about five (5) STD provincial referral clinics.
(d)
Monitoring, Research and Evaluation
Carrying out of  studies and operational research on AIDS.
(e)
HIV/AIDS Services
Provision of Grants for services by non-governmental organizations and 
private entities to support activities for the prevention of HIV and AIDS.
PART B:
Health Services Strengthening
1.
(a) Construction of about one hundred seventy-three (173) health centers; (b) 
rehabilitation of about fifty-seven (57) health centers, eight (8) basic referral 
hospitals (without major surgical or radiological facilities) and eighteen (18) full 
referral hospitals (with major surgical and radiological facilities) in the Borrower’s 
Phase I and Phase II Provinces; and (c) provision of related equipment and furniture.
2.
Provision of essential drugs to health centers and referral hospitals throughout 
the Borrower's territory to support priority primary health care interventions and 
disease control programs.
3.
Construction and renovation of facilities at the MOH and the Borrower’s 
Department of Pharmacy, including provision of office equipment, communication 
equipment, fellowships and technical assistance.
4.
Carrying out of a baseline survey to establish current health status and 
performance indicators.
5.
Commissioning of health centers constructed under the Project, and training of 
health center staff in the delivery and management of health services.
6.
Provision of in-service training for about two (2) surgeons/obstetricians and 
one (1) anesthetist from the full referral hospitals upgraded under the Project.
*  *  *  *  *  * 
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996" (the "Guidelines") 
Page  11
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) 
or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Domestic Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to 
works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more each shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (except drugs) estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of one million six hundred thousand dollars ($1,600,000), and civil works 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of seven million 
nine hundred thousand dollars ($7,900,000), may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods (except drugs) estimated to cost the equivalent of twenty-five thousand 
dollars ($25,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000), and civil works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or less but more than 
the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of three million seven hundred thousand dollars 
($3,700,000), may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Miscellaneous materials and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of 
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to one hundred eighty thousand dollars ($180,000), and civil works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of three hundred 
thousand dollars ($300,000), may be procured, with the Administrator’s prior 
agreement, under contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  12
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or more and (ii) each contract for civil works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines"). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand 
dollars ($100,000) each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars 
($100,000) or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars 
($50,000) or above.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall, through MOH, enter into a Health Management Agreement with 
each Province under terms and conditions acceptable to the Administrator, and 
thereafter, not later than December 31 in each Fiscal Year and until the completion of 
the Project, the Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that each of 
said agreement is updated annually in such scope and detail as the Administrator may 
reasonably require.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than June 30, 1997, prepare and furnish to the Administrator 
for approval the Project supervision arrangements to be entered into between the 
Page  13
Borrower and each Province.
(b)
Not later than September 30, 1997, enter into a Project supervision 
agreement, satisfactory to the Administrator, with each of the Phase I Provinces; and
(c)
Not later than September 30, 1998, enter  into a Project supervision 
agreement, satisfactory to the Administrator, with each of the Phase II Provinces.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain, until completion of the Project, the PCU in the 
MOH, with terms of reference and resources as shall be satisfactory to the 
Administrator, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, including: (i) a manager; 
(ii) a finance and administration unit chief; (iii) a World Bank operations unit 
chief; and (iv) a construction manager in said World Bank operations unit, all 
acceptable to the Administrator. The PCU shall be responsible for, inter alia, 
coordinating and supervising the overall implementation of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain until completion of the 
Project:
(a)
A PPU in each of the Phase I Provinces, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers, including a PPU director; and
(b)
Not later than September 30, 1997, a PPU in each of the Phase II 
Provinces, with competent staff in adequate numbers, including a PPU director.
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year, commencing 
November 30, 1996 and until completion of the Project, furnish to the Administrator 
for approval the annual work program and related budget for Project implementation 
activities.
6.
In carrying out Part A.2 (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than January 31, 1997, furnish to the Administrator for 
comments a social marketing and bednet treatment and distribution strategy, including 
a cost-recovery proposal and proposed action plan; and
(b)
Thereafter, promptly carry out such action plan, taking into account the 
Administrator’s comments thereon.
7.
In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
September 30, 1997:
(a)
Take all measures necessary to upgrade the National AIDS Office to a 
department within the MOH; and
(b)
Appoint an administrative officer and a financial officer to the National 
AIDS Office.
8.
In carrying out Part A.3 (e) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) make Grants 
to Grantees in accordance with the procedures and on the conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (b) not later than January 31, 1997, 
appoint an HIV/AIDS Project Grant Committee, with responsibilities and membership 
satisfactory to the Administrator, charged with reviewing and approving proposals for 
Grants submitted by prospective Grantees.
9.
Not later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the Administrator, for its 
approval, a performance evaluation report on the results achieved  in implementing 
Part A.3 (b) (iii) of the Project, and any recommendation for the additional financing 
thereof.
10.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than September 30, 1997, appoint technical facilities managers 
in the provincial health directorates in each of the Phase I Provinces, to be 
responsible for the maintenance of upgraded facilities within said Provinces;
(b)
Not later than September 30, 1998, appoint technical facilities managers 
in the provincial health directorates in each of the Phase II Provinces, to be 
responsible for the maintenance of upgraded facilities within said Provinces; and
(c)
Take all measures necessary to ensure that upgraded health centers and 
referral hospitals have competent staff in adequate numbers with appropriate 
Page  14
resources.
11.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than March 31, 1997, implement a national in-service training 
strategy, satisfactory to the Administrator; and
(b)
Not later than March 31, 1997, furnish to the Administrator for comments 
a time-bound action plan for the training of health staff at the health centers and 
referral hospitals upgraded under the Project; and, promptly thereafter, carry out 
such plan taking into account the Administrator’s comments thereon.
12.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall select health 
centers and referral hospitals in accordance with criteria acceptable to the 
Administrator.
13.
In carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than December 31, 1996, establish arrangements, acceptable to 
the Administrator, for the contracting, supervision, and payment of contractors for 
the carrying out of the civil works in the Phase I Provinces; and
(b)
Not later than December 31, 1997, establish arrangements, acceptable to 
the Administrator, for the contracting, supervision, and payment of contractors for 
the carrying out of the civil works in the Phase II Provinces.
14.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through the MOH, 
take all measures necessary to ensure that minimal patient food supplements are 
provided, on a timely and regular basis, to all hospitalized tuberculosis patients 
admitted to its national health facilities, so as to assure a high rate of 
chemotherapy compliance.
15.
Not later than January 31, 1997, the Borrower shall, through the MOH, implement 
a national policy, satisfactory to the Administrator, on charging and collecting fees 
from patients for services rendered at its national health facilities.
16.
Commencing in January 1998, and until completion of the Project, the Borrower 
shall conduct a program for the random audit of Health Management Agreements, so as to 
assess the progress achieved in their implementation, and shall furnish to the 
Administrator quarterly reports on said audits, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall reasonably require.
 \0c
17.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than June 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal 
Year, commencing Fiscal Year 1997, semi-annual reports on the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in implementing the Project;
(c)
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, not later than March 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
Review with the Administrator, not later than June 30, 1999, or such 
later date as the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph 
(c) above, and, promptly thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator 
views on the matter.
18.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
Not later than June 30, 2001, carry out a final evaluation survey of the 
Page  15
Project in accordance with the indicators agreed with the Administrator; and
(b)
Not later than March 31, 2002, furnish the results of the survey to the 
Administrator for comments.
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures and Conditions for Grants
Under Part A.3 (e) of the Project
1.
Each Grant shall be made by the Borrower only:
(a)
To a Grantee which shall have established, to the satisfaction of the 
Borrower, acting through its National AIDS Office, on the basis of criteria and 
procedures, acceptable to the Administrator, and that said Grantee: (i) has the 
organization, management, staffing and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of the services; and (ii) has prepared an acceptable plan, including 
satisfactory terms of reference, for the carrying out of the services; and
(b)
For services which are determined by the Borrower, acting through its 
National AIDS Office, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator: (i) 
to be technically feasible and cost-effective; and (ii) to have been designed in 
accordance with appropriate health and educational standards.
2.
Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, through a 
written agreement with each of the Grantees, rights adequate to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Administrator, including the right  to inter alia:
(a)
Require the Grantee to carry out the services with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound financial, health, educational and managerial 
standards and to maintain adequate records and accounts;
(b)
Require that: (i) the goods and services required and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the services;
(c)
Inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Administrator 
if the Administrator shall so request, such goods and any relevant facilities, 
installations, records and documents;
(d)
Obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Administrator shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the benefits to be derived from 
the services; and
(e)
Suspend or terminate the right of the Grantee to the use of the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit upon failure by such Grantee to perform its obligations 
under its agreement with the Borrower providing for the Grant, and to otherwise 
require the Grantee to promptly and fully reimburse to the Borrower any part of the 
proceeds of the Grants that shall have been misused by the Grantee.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 
(6) and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to be withdrawn from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to five 
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
Page  16
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of six million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 6,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
If, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the Eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
Page  17
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
