                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                         Report No: 25949

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                           (IF-N0050; TF-29261; PPFI-P9970; TF-26599)

                                             ON A

                                           CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.6 MILLION (US$ 30.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                  KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                            FOR A

                  DISEASE CONTROL & HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                         June 26, 2003




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Riel
                          Riel 1 = US$ 0.000261
                         US$ 1 = Riel 3,835

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB                   Asian Development Bank
BSS                   Behavior Surveillance Surveys
CDCHDP                Cambodia Disease Control and Health
                      Development Project
CENAT                 National Center for Tuberculosis and Leprosy
                      Control
CNM                   National Malaria Center
DOTS                  Directly Observed Short Chemotherapy
GFATM                 Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
HMAs                  Health Management Agreements
HSSP                  Health Sector Support Project
IEC                   Information, Education, Communication
MOEF                  Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOH                   Ministry of Health
NAO                   National AIDS Office
NCHADS                National Center for HIV/AIDS, Dermatology and
                      STDs
NGO                   Non-governmental Organization
PAOs                  Provincial AIDS Offices
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
PHD                   Provincial Health Department
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PIU                   Project Implementation Unit
SFKC                  Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia
STDs                  Sexually Transmitted Diseases
WB                    World Bank
WHO                   World Health Organization



                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
             Country Director:      Ian C. Porter, EACTF
               Sector Director:     Emmanuel Y. Jimenez, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Vincent Turbat, EASHD

                                         CAMBODIA
             DISEASE CONTROL & HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P004034                                                      Project Name: Disease Control and Health
                                                                         Development Project
Team Leader: Vincent Turbat                                              TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 28, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Disease Control and Health Development Project L/C/TF Number: IF-N0050; TF-29261;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9970; TF-26599
   Country/Department: CAMBODIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (91%); Central government administration (9%)
                  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P); Health system performance (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/02/1995                                        Effective:                         06/23/1997
   Appraisal:    02/12/1996                                            MTR:                           11/29/1999
    Approval:    12/24/1996                                         Closing: 03/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Nicholas Hope (Acting)
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Javed Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Sector Director:                Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                            Sven Burmester
Team Leader at ICR:             Vincent Turbat                                 Christopher Chamberlain
ICR Primary Author:             Jagadish P. Upadhyay


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were two-fold: (i) to reduce death and sickness from preventable diseases, especially
malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS; and (ii) to rehabilitate the health system infrastructure to deliver
basic health care and disease control programs more effectively down to the community level.

The first objective supported the three national disease control programs ­ the national tuberculosis
program, the malaria control program, and the HIV/AIDS control program. The second objective aimed at
reconstruction, rehabilitation and strengthening of first and referral facilities with civil works, supply of
medical equipment and furniture, essential drugs, training and the strengthening of the Ministry of Health
(MOH).

The project objectives were very ambitious for a first World Bank-supported operation in the country's
health sector. But those objectives were fully justified for a number of reasons. First, the prevailing needs
of Cambodia justified a bold approach. Health conditions in Cambodia were extremely poor and barely
improved after the virtual dismantling of the system during the war and the Khmer Rouge rule.
Cambodia's health status was alarming with infant mortality of 115 out of every 1,000 live births, or about
three times the regional average of 42 per 1,000, and the maternal mortality ratio at 900 per 100,000 births
the highest in East Asia. Cambodia harbored among the highest rate of tuberculosis in the world with active
TB cases of over 800 per 100,000 population in some areas. HIV/AIDS was late in coming but the rate
was already among the highest in Asia and increasing geometrically. Malaria was also a major cause of
illness and death.

Second, the project designed responded to the policies of the Government, the Bank and other international
agencies. Cambodia had developed clear policies and service delivery strategy in its National Health Policy
in close collaboration with international agencies like WHO. That strategy was being supported by other
international agencies but had a significant financing gap, which the Bank was best placed to fill, and the
recognized need to improve policies and programs to control major diseases. This project was consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 14465-KH of May 10, 1995) which called for
"support rehabilitation and expansion of the public health system, with a focus on control of communicable
diseases, tuberculosis, and malaria ­ all of which are prevalent in Cambodia ­ and of HIV/AIDS, which is
a danger of expanding rapidly". The task team had appropriately concluded that a narrower focus on
disease control would be simpler but that would encounter capacity and implementation constraints at the
service delivery level. At the same time, implementation of the health service strengthening activities alone
would miss the focus on disease control.

Thirdly, task team's decision to include both the direct support to national programs as well as the
measures to strengthen the health services at provinces and below was appropriate. The two-track approach
allowed immediate filling of major gaps in both areas as part of the international joint efforts and also
allowed the possibility to move the implementation of vertical disease control programs towards integration
within the general health system.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project`s objectives remained intact throughout the project period. There were a few additions within
project components, including the addition of 16 office buildings in operational districts.

3.3 Original Components:
Component I. National Program Support (US$ 13 million base cost)



                                                     - 2 -

This component consisted of three national disease control programs described below.

(a) National Tuberculosis Control Program (US$3.0 million)
This subcomponent supported the national TB control program, managed by the national Anti-Tuberculosis
Center (CENAT), for improving the accessibility and quality of TB services, including (i) disease
management with free diagnosis and treatment of TB patients at the provincial and district level hospitals
following short course therapy ­ DOTS, (ii) program management, through support to CENAT, for
training, technical assistance, equipment, renovations and transportation, and (iii) evaluation and research,
including epidemiological surveys.

(b) Malaria Control Program (US$3.5 million base cost)
This sub-component supported the activities managed by the National Malaria Center (CNM) as
part of a larger program supported by other donors. The project supported: disease management for
improved access to early and accurate diagnosis together with prompt and effective treatment; vector
control for expanded community level use of impregnated bed-nets in high-risk areas as well as pilot testing
of a social marketing strategy for impregnated bed-nets; program management to support CNM for
training, technical assistance, mosquito nets, insecticide, basic net- treatment equipment, renovations,
transportation and operations research into alternative, costs efficient personal protection methods as well
as cost recovery schemes and distribution methods; and evaluation and research (variety of clinical, vector
control, management and strategic methods).

(c) HIV/AIDS Program (US$6.5 million base cost)
This sub-component aimed at countering the spread of HIV by enhancing the ability of the National AIDS
Office (NAO) to provide the overall guidance and management of the HIV/AIDS program, to improve
direction and leadership to the program and for coordinating donor and NGO contributions. The project
aimed to support the key elements of a national strategy to address the problem both at the country and
provincial level, including (i) institutional Development, at the National and provincial levels, through the
provision of training, technical assistance, supplies and equipment, logistical and financial support for
supervision of national and provincial AIDS programs/activities, and (ii) Prevention Programs, including:
information, education and communication (IEC) to raise awareness; blood transfusion services to supply
safe blood; risk behavior reduction through outreach and condom promotion programs; improved program
for treatment of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs); monitoring, research and evaluation; and small
grants program to implement activities through non-government organizations (NGOs) and private sectors.

Component II. Health Service Strengthening (US$18.1 million base cost)

This component aimed at upgrading the basic health service delivery at the provincial level and below in
accordance with Cambodia's National Health Coverage Plan and in keeping with the Government's
objective to increase the flow of resources to the peripheral level to establish an efficient health system that
provided accessible and quality health care. Out of Cambodia's 24 provinces, this project supported the
health strengthening programs in eleven provinces selected on well laid criteria. The Asian Development
Bank (ADB) supported five other provinces while other external donors supported a few others. This
component was considered an essential complement to the national disease control program.

This component supported: (i) Facilities upgrading (US$ 10.2 million), including construction and
rehabilitation of 26 referral hospitals and 230 health centers, of which 173 health centers were to be newly
constructed and other facilities rehabilitated or renovated; (ii) Equipment and transportation (US$2.9
million); (iii) Essential drugs (US$2.3 million), including drugs for TB, malaria and STD, to fund the



                                                      - 3 -

gap after the government's and other donors' financing; (iv) In-service training (US$0.2 million), for two
surgeons/obstetricians and one anesthetist for each full referral hospital rehabilitated under the project; and
(v) MOH Strengthening (US$2.6 million), including a part of the cost of a project Coordination Unit,
specifically the costs of consultants and some operational support, office equipment and communication
link, limited office renovations, a baseline survey of health status and performance indicators, operational
costs, and provincial supervision funds.

3.4 Revised Components:
(a) By an amendment of the Agreement on April 10, 2001, additional civil works were allowed for the
construction of 16 operational district offices, and the addition of training of two batches of operational
theatre nurses for the full referral hospitals upgraded under the project.
(b) In line with recommendations in the HIV/AIDS Component Mid-Term Review report, a small program
for the care of HIV/AIDS patients was added under the HIV/AIDS national program for training and
supervision to help prepare health staff to care for AIDS victims. This was complemented by the Small
Grant Program, with funds provided to an NGO to undertake a pilot study.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was highly satisfactory on technical aspects but relatively weak on some critical
operational aspects. Technical design was highly satisfactory as: (a) the project directly responded to the
needs identified by the Royal Government of Cambodia in its National Health Plan and to the priorities set
by the Bank's country assistance strategy; (b) the activities were parts of the health programs supported by
several donors involved in the sector, and the project complemented the activities of other donors like the
Asian Development Bank and WHO; (c) the activities were based on a very high quality project
implementation plan (PIP) produced by Cambodia; (d) the technical responsibilities for implementation
were laid out with full sensitivity to Cambodia's weak capacity; and (e) an innovative internal management
contracting system was initiated between MOH and the provinces, specifying expected tasks and available
resources, in the form of health management agreements (HMAs) which will be continued in the follow up
project. The Asian Development Bank also piloted contracting of health management at district level but,
as the contracts were with NGOs (external parties), but their future is still under review.

The operational preparedness of the project was inadequate at entry especially on finance and procurement.
Fully aware of Cambodia's serious weaknesses in these areas, consultants were provided during project
preparation and early implementation which enabled the project officials to establish a expenditures and
record system. However, the effects of the absence of sufficient staff training in procurement and finance
were felt throughout the project. The arrangements that were designed were too centralized resulting in
difficulty in the utilization and disbursement of funds. Severe cash shortages with provincial health
departments and national programs posed serious difficulties. This was later corrected by establishing
90-day accounts, similar to the present second generation special accounts, to allow project officials to
draw advances from special accounts for 90 days. Procurement problems were experienced for both civil
works as well as equipment. For all civil works, this project originally relied on the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) in MOH, while ADB had contracted its part of civil works to an engineering firm from the
start. After initial piloting of direct PCU management, the Bank part also had to be contracted to the
Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC) which was experienced to implement the civil works.
Equipment procurement continued to be very slow, especially those contracted to UNICEF.

An innovative operational arrangement was the sharing of the project implementation unit with the Asian
Development Bank which had similar health service strengthening programs running parallel in a number
of other provinces. This was beneficial to avoid duplication and to improve collaboration.




                                                      - 4 -

Social or environmental assessments were not required then. The project included massive amounts of civil
works but no special assessment was provided for as the project activities were not expected to result in
any involuntary resettlement or displacement. The disposal of medical wastes was addressed and the
non-toxicity of the bednets for malaria control was ascertained .

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved its objectives satisfactorily despite the major delays during the first few years due
generally to insufficient domestic capacity and because the Bank procedures were completely new to the
health sector. The project is rated satisfactory, not higher, mainly because of doubtful sustainability of
project-supported activities (see Section 6.1) and because of the initial delays.

It was remarkable that the project required merely a nine-months' extension of the original closing date to
complete the project with 99 percent disbursement of the Credit. This is particularly praiseworthy since
this was the Bank's first health project in Cambodia, and it had to be implemented in the background of
very poor infrastructure, effects of war and other disasters and interruptions by other political events. As
senior leaders of the Ministry of Health (MOH) often reminded, this project had to be implemented in an
environment where the number of medical doctors had been depleted from 500 to 50 during the Khmer
Rouge time. However, the project also suffered avoidable and unavoidable start-up delays as discussed
below.

The project's most significant contribution was to assist Cambodia to control the three most important
infectious diseases - HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. Data suggest that Cambodia significantly
reduced the incidence of each of the three diseases during the project period (see paragraph 4.2 below).
Besides program interventions, Cambodia's health system improved also because the country was in peace,
its infrastructure was getting better and many external agencies and Government were working hard
together. Cambodia's health status improved significantly. For example, the base line surveys indicate that
under-five mortality decreased from 117 per 1000 to 89 per 1000 between 1998 and 2002. (No other
reliable data were available to compare the general health status before and after the project period.)

The project's own exact contribution is hard to isolate because of the involvement of many external and
domestic players. The problem in completing and validating the final survey further complicates
comparison with baseline data. Nevertheless, it is clear that the project made very substantial
contributions, especially in assisting the Government institution building efforts. First, this project was
critical in helping MOH to design and run national programs as part of national strategies instead of a
multitude of mostly donor-driven small programs. It also helped Cambodia to move the vertical national
programs (HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB) and integrate them with the general health system, a unique
achievement not succeeded by most other countries. Second, it significantly strengthened capacity of the
national programs through large scale training, technical assistance, and resources for program inputs as
well as for management and supervision. Third, it helped to build, renovate and improve basic health
infrastructure which was in dire needs. Fourth, it helped in the Government's goal of decentralized
management of health programs through large scale training, strengthening of supervision system, and
through programs like the introduction of the health management agreements (HMAs) between MOH and
the provinces that improved planning and management of health programs and increased accountability of
all concerned parties by specifying major expectations from the provinces as well as the resources that were
allocated. These efforts are expected to be continued under the successor project. The project's
contribution on the three national programs are described in paragraphs 4.2.




                                                      - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. National Program Support

Under this component, the project coordinated with a number of other external partners in helping to
control three main diseases, TB, Malaria and HIV/AIDS. There are no data available to isolate the
impacts from this particular project.

(a) HIV/AIDS. Cambodia has experienced among the highest HIV prevalence in Asia, with rapid
increases in transmission since the first case was identified in 1991. By the time of project preparation, in
1995, HIV prevalence had begun to surge with numbers like 8 percent of blood donors in Phnom Penh, 40
percent of prostitutes in Battambang, and 10 percent of military and police tested with HIV positive.

HIV prevalence significantly turned around during the project period. Serological sentinel surveillance
(supported by the project) indicated that HIV prevalence for 19 to 45 years old population decreased from
3.8 percent in 1998 to 3.2 in 1999, 2.9 percent in 2000. The UNAIDS/WHO Epidemiological Fact Sheet
(2002) reports that there were 170,000 people living with HIV/AIDS at the end of 2001, including 160,000
adults (15 to 49 years) or 2.7% of total adult population. The reasons for this recent decline have yet to be
assessed convincingly. It is, however, clear that Cambodia's HIV/AIDS control program has received high
level of political commitments and effective national leadership, deployment of sufficient high quality
domestic human resources, and very high level of financial resources including very substantial financial
support and technical assistance from international community.

           Approximate Funding for HIV/AIDS Program in Cambodia, 1997-2002
                                          (In US$ 1,000)
         Sources               1997         1998         1999          2000          2001          2002
 Govt Contribution                           20            20          20              450          600
                             28
 World Bank Project                         400          845           2,133        1,094           342
                             70
 Other                       5,22         4,417        5,322           6,750        8,153        8,146
 External                    0
 Sources
 External NGOs                            2,359        3,248           1,893        1,861        3,714
                             594
 Total                       5,91         7,196        9,436         12,247        13,947      15,370
                             2
Note: (a) These figures are based on annual estimates and do not tally with the actual expenditures. (b) Bank
funding was all for the programs directly managed by the Government whereas most external sources include their
overhead costs.

The World Bank assisted Disease Control and Health Development Project, along with other partners,
played a key role in assisting Cambodia in institutional development as well as in program intervention
activities. Although the project's financial contribution never reached even one-quarter of total annual
expenditures, it made very significant contributions in a number of ways. First, the project was
instrumental in helping the Ministry of Health prepare and implement HIV control programs as part of the
Health Sector Strategic Plan and to scale up. It helped to move Cambodia's HIV/AIDS prevention and
control program from a collection of small and scattered donor-supported pilot-type schemes to a cohesive



                                                       - 6 -

national program within the health sector. Second, the project helped move the program from mostly
donor-driven activities towards complete national ownership. Third, the project helped develop and
establish high-quality program implementation and operating procedures for both Central level policy
guidance and decentralized implementation in provinces with potentially long-lasting impact. The project
helped achieve these through policy dialogue, very substantial training and technical assistance. While the
National Center for HIV/AIDS, Dermatology and STDs (NCHADS) has been the main focal point, there
is a shared responsibility where the central level, NCHADS, is primarily responsible for the development
of strategy and guidelines while provincial AIDS offices (PAOs) and the provincial health departments
(PHDs) develop operational plans and implement them. Finally, the project helped improve non-government
organizations' capacity to implement high priority HIV-related programs by supporting the programs
carried by an umbrella NGO agency ­ KHANA ­ and was particularly successful in initiating management
and care of HIV patients. The project had included small, local NGO grants as an important project
component which was later contracted to KHANA. This program turned out to be quite successful. In
particular, the project's support was instrumental in developing and extending a home-based care model for
people living with HIV. This program was scaled up with a high degree of success.

Building on the success of pilots, the project helped the Government to expand the 100% condom use
program to all provinces with quite satisfactory results. Two factors were critical for this success. First, a
strong political commitment, including the personal involvement of the Prime Minister in requiring
Provincial Governors to adhere to this endeavor which was relayed to all sectors and levels. Second, most
of the targeted sex workers were in brothels making it relatively easier to organize condom distribution.
Behavioral surveillance surveys (BSS), conducted since 1997 with the project's support, indicate that
between 1997 and 1999, consistent condom use increased for the military men from 54.2 to 69.7 and for
police from 53.8 to 74.9 percent. The percentage of female sex workers always using condoms increased
from 42 percent in 1997 to 78.1 percent in 1999. It has been reported that most provinces have achieved
close to 100% condom use in brothels.

The main activities concerning the sexually transmitted infections included the intensification of targeted
STI care for high risk populations within the 100% condom use program, integration of syndromic case
management in the services of health centers for the general population and the training of health workers.
The outreach and peer education program, as an integral part of 100% condom use program, was
externally evaluated in 1999 and then expanded with the project's support. With regard to STI services,
these (100% condom use, outreach and targeted STI services) form the basic prevention package delivered
under the Strategic Plan.

Blood safety programs were implemented by National Transfusion Center. Eight blood transfusion centers
were built and equipped under the project, and staff trained to run them. Supplies or reagents and testing
kits for HIV testing in the National Blood Transfusion Service to secure the blood supply, were also
provided under the project.

(b) Malaria Control Program. As malaria had been a major public health problem in Cambodia, it had
been drawing considerable attention and resources from the Government and external sources even before
the project. The European Union and USAID were the major financial contributors and WHO was the
leading source of technical assistance. Approximate estimates of financial allocations during the project
period is presented below for broad comparison as the data is not fully verified.




                                                     - 7 -

                     Approximate International Assistance 1997-2002
                                    (In US$1,000)
                Sources                      1999          2000        2001         2002
 World Bank Project                            277*         414         643          900
 European Community                            571          680       1,187        1,688
 USAID/WHO                                     573          300         530          730
 Domestic Sources                               65          181         316          465
       TOTAL                                 1,486        1,575       2,676        3,783
 *Bank's 1999 figure also includes expenditures between 1997 and 1998.

The Bank-assisted project aimed to reduce malaria transmission and case mortality by supporting the
national program, managed by the National Malaria Center (CNM), especially by increasing service
access, increasing coverage of "at risk" population with impregnated mosquito nets and by institutional
strengthening and capacity building measures.

Between 1997 and 2001, the total number of malaria cases in Cambodia declined 35 percent, from 170,387
to 115,614, the malaria incidence rate reduced from 15 per 1,000 to 9.6 per 1,000, and case fatality rate
was reduced 51 percent, with the malaria deaths declining from 865 to 420. About 105,000 impregnated
bednets were procured and distributed, and some 10,000 hammock-nets and insecticide tablets were sold
under the social marketing program started under the project. The performance in the distribution of
bednets and the social marketing of hammock nets, however, were below appraisal targets. Bednets were
procured from other funding sources due to procurement delays and the piloting of hammock net program
took a long time to implement. The project also financed technical assistance, significant amounts of staff
training, health education, operational research, field supervision and monitoring, antimalaria drugs,
equipment, transportation vehicles and building renovation.

The most important contribution of the project was on institutional and capacity building areas. The project
helped Cambodia's malaria control program move from an emergency service oriented activity targeting
the communities with easier access and highest quick impact to a more systematic management with
participatory exercise preparing visions, strategies, mission statements, five-year and annual plans. The
project also helped in the Government's efforts at decentralization of program implementation under which
the center would be more active in policy making, guidance and program monitoring while the provinces
and districts would prepare and implement the programs, moving away move from a centralized and
vertical program to integration with provincial and district health system. These are unique achievements
of Cambodia's health system.

The capacity building effect was very substantial, achieved through clinical training of nearly 1,000 public
health staff and 250 military personnel, laboratory training of 475 technicians and 375 from military health
services, and 775 staff at health centers in dipstick diagnosis and national treatment guidelines. There has
been dramatic improvement in the quality of diagnosis. However, the problem of fake drugs and incorrect
treatments is still widespread as there are many traditionally unqualified private practitioners of all kinds
treating malaria in addition to the over-the-counter prescriptions at pharmacies despite the free distribution
of drugs from public clinics and social marketing.




                                                      - 8 -

(c) National Tuberculosis Program. Cambodia is among the twenty-two WHO-classified high TB burden
countries, with an estimated incidence rate of 540 per 100,000 population, ranking fourth in the Western
Pacific region. Tuberculosis control has received high priority from the Government as well as from
international community. The Bank-assisted project joined a substantial international collaborative effort
along with many other sources of assistance. An approximate account of funds allocation is shown below
to provide general idea of the part contributed by the project. During the earlier part of the project, the cost
of TB drugs was borne by some donors (KfW, UNICEF, JICA, etc) along with the Government but later
the cost of the drugs was financed from the national budgets. The following figures are presented just for
broad comparison purpose as it has not been possible to verify them for their correctness.

                             International Assistance for TB Control 1997-2002
                                      (Approximate Data, in US$1,000)
         Sources              1997        1998        1999        2000      2001         2002        Total
 National/Government         240          265        1,274       1,021      1,175      1,238        5,213
 World Bank Project             6         143          240         464        475        781        1,984
 JICA (Japan)                 ...         ...          359         474        679        486        1,998
 USAID                        ...         ...          ...         ...        ...          50            50
 WHO                          40           50          ...        ...         220        600            910
 Other International            6           7             7       ...         ...          10            30
   TOTAL                      291         465        1,880       1959       2,549      3,041       10,186
    Note: May not add due to rounding

Analyzing Cambodia's TB statistics is very hard for a number of reasons. Most of the data come from
samples of various qualities as the first National TB prevalence survey was only carried out in year 2002
under the Bank-assisted project. There has been sharp differences in data adopted by the Government and
WHO. For example, WHO publications use 41 percent as the detection rate for smear positive cases in
2001, while the Government considers it closer to 57 percent (for 2002), and even higher in the still not
verified survey data. One major reason for discrepancy is that the Government uses its census data while
WHO uses UN-projection of population. Similarly, DOTS (directly observed short chemotherapy)
coverage data can be misleading as its introduction by one operational district could be interpreted as full
coverage for the whole district.

Despite the difficulties dealing with TB data, it is clear that Cambodia has been making substantial
progress in implementing its TB control program. DOTS has been fully adopted by the Government and
the coverage has been significantly growing since its first adoption in 1994. Available data suggest that
DOTS was fully used at the levels of provincial and district level referral hospitals by 1999, and it is now
increasing at the lowest Health Center's level. DOTS was used at 138 out of 946 (15%) health centers in
2000, which increased to 36% (342/946) in 2001, 49% (464/946) in 2002. This is expected to reach 76%
in 2003.




                                                      - 9 -

The TB control program of this project moved very slowly in the beginning and Bank missions were
frustrated by inadequate commitment, the lack of leadership and project monitoring and reporting. The
situation improved after 2000 and implementation improved. The project was instrumental in helping the
Government improve access and quality of TB diagnosis and care by expanding DOTS (short course
chemotherapy), during its association from 1997 to 2002, in a number of ways. First of all, the project's
requirement and assistance helped the Government in the formulation of the National Health Policies and
Strategies for TB Control, approved in 2001, and the development of the Strategic Plan for TB control for
2001-2005. Second, the planning and management program capacity of the National Center for
Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control (CENAT) to implement the National TB program and the
implementation capacity of lower levels were enhanced by significant training and technical assistance.
Third, TB management was significantly improved as a standardized recording and reporting system was
developed and used across the network. Fourth, TB control management modules were created and used at
service level. Finally, the project supported Cambodia's first National TB Prevalence Survey in 2002 and
conducting the National Drug Resistance Surveillance in 2000-01.

The project achieved its targets of reaching 85 percent cure rate and no more than 5 percent relapse rate,
the cure rate actually reached 89 percent in 2002. However, case detection rate of only 57 percent in 2002
(WHO report, 41% in 2001) indicates real challenges to achieve the national target of 70 percent set for
2005.

Despite some success in expanding DOTS access and improving the quality, there are strong challenges
ahead. First, there is a very heavy dependence on external funding and technical assistance. While it is too
early after Cambodia's disasters to expect the country to fully fund and manage its expensive TB control
program, which will also be supported under the second Bank-assisted project, a clear roadmap for the
program's sustainability does not exist. The issue of sustainability will be even more complicated if the
Government moves to external financing for TB drugs which it had been paying from its own source so
far. A second major challenge is posed by increasing proportion of HIV/TB co-infection, which increased
from 2.5% in 1995 to 8.4% in 2002. Also, although the Multidrug Resistance Survey found no primary
MDR among smear positive cases, any complacency can be dangerous. There is no data on chronic culture
positive cases.

Component II . Health Service Strengthening

This component aimed at upgrading basic health services in eleven provinces, out of Cambodia's twenty
four provinces, selected in accordance with a set of criteria including disease incidence and the existence of
other international support including a similar ADB program. The project activities included massive civil
works, procurement of essential drugs and equipment, in-service training, important surveys and the
strengthening of MOH. Most activities were completed close to the original plans, and the implementation
of this component were satisfactory especially considering that this was the first health project in
Cambodia supported by the Bank. The civil works completed included the construction of 170 new health
centers (98% of the plan) and rehabilitation of 26 health centers (46% of plan), 22 referral hospitals (85%
of plan). The allocation was not adequate to fully complete the civil works for health centers due to
shortage of funds. Civil works for renovation were also carried out for each of three national programs
(malaria, HIV/AIDS and TB). In addition, 16 provincial offices (outside the original plan), 8 blood
transfusion centers, 11 pharmacies, and 5 STD clinics were also constructed.

The project provided medical equipment and furniture to equip the health centers, medical equipment for
the 22 referral hospitals, and laboratory equipment for the eight blood banks. It also provided 11 vehicles
and 228 motorcycles to provinces for supervision purposes.


                                                    - 10 -

In addition, it provided in-service training for 36 medical doctors, 50 nurses. It supported regular
supervisions. In addition, it supported a baseline health survey in 1998 and a final evaluation survey in
2002 which has not been finalized.

While the facilities were reported to have been fully equipped and staffed, its full utilization is uncertain the
in absence of steps for staff motivation and adequate budget provision for facility maintenance, program
operation and supervision.

For MOH strengthening, the project provided technical assistance, training and equipment. The project's
contribution for MOH strengthening was substantial, in particular, for staff training and the support for
supervision activities from MOH to provinces, provinces to operational districts, and districts to lower
levels.

Finance and procurement were serious problems during the first half of the project, partly because of
Cambodia weak capacity and inadequate and depleted human resources, partly because of the Bank's
prescriptions to deal with its complex requirements were not effective enough and partly because of
unexpected circumstances. Cambodia's inexperience and inadequacy of human resources have already
been indicated above. The initial failure on the Bank's part was to assume that the identified deficiencies
would be handled by external technical assistance but without sufficient staff training and stronger inputs
from experienced Bank staff (see Section 7 below). The unexpected part was the failure of UNICEF to
deliver on procurement as promised with serious consequences. UNICEF handled approximately 40% of
the project's international procurement.

The problem in financial management were significantly eased by the creation of 90-day advance accounts,
and after the issuance of Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Economy and Finance
(MOEF) and MOH to increase MOH's authority in financial management, and the development of
standard operating procedures by MOEF in 2001. The procurement of goods continued for a long time,
especially the UNICEF handled part.       Civil works procurement went smoother when the task was
transferred to Social Fund of the Kingdom of Cambodia (SFKC), which had prior experience in this field,
except for occasional differences in site selection, works quality and coordination between works
completion and equipment supply. The cost of civil works, however, increased and some buildings had to
be curtailed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return was not calculated for the project at the time of appraisal nor was it calculated
after its closure. In the development of the project, alternate interventions were evaluated according to
priority and current availability of financing (so as to avoid interventions that were already well funded) as
well as cost effectiveness.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As discussed above, the project's impact has been highest in institution building. That was critical for the
country which was coming out from a particularly difficult time in its history. Many of its institutions had
undergone years of turmoil and were in desperate need of improvement and re-building. The national
programs for the control of major diseases were also in need of better institutional structure and capacity
improvement. The project significantly helped improve MOH's capacity in planning and managing health



                                                      - 11 -

programs, the health system's exposure to modern management was greatly enhanced, and all three
national programs significantly benefited from the project. Details of the institution building results are
discussed in Section 4.2.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
First, Cambodia had barely come out of the devastating effects of the Khmer Rouge rule and also the
political difficulties of the 1997-1998 period. Their effects had unavoidable impact in the implementation
of this program as of other programs in Cambodia.

Second, despite a high level of receptivity to change and very positive attitude of the government officials,
the Bank's requirements were too unfamiliar and difficult for the health sector which had no previous
experience dealing with the Bank. Unfamiliarity of financial and procurement requirements delayed project
implementation. Contracting some procurement to UNICEF also did not help to expedite the procurement.

Third, the prevailing very low staff salary for public sector employees in Cambodia continues to seriously
affect staff morale, motivation and efficiency. This is a system-wide phenomenon and not within the health
sector's control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Cambodia has been very receptive to consider and implement new ideas and strong measures required for
improvements in the system. For example, Cambodia's leaders demonstrated a high level of political
commitment to deal with HIV/AIDS problems which helped implement effective measures. Cambodia has
also been more successful than most countries to move towards integrating vertical national programs
within the countries' health structure while maintaining necessary independence and focus.

On the project level, the government realized early on that massive civil works could not be managed by
MOH alone and readily agreed to contract the task to SFKC with good results. Likewise, the constraints in
financial management were dealt early on through measures like the establishment of 90-day account to
implement the project.

On the negative side, as stated above, this project suffered from the effects of the very low salaries in the
Cambodian civil service and high staff turnover. Another negative point was inadequate stakeholder
involvement in planning and management. In particular, HMAs seem to have been prepared by the
provincial officials with inadequate involvement of district levels and other important officials from other
sectors.

The Government did not provide the promised counterpart funding contribution although there is no
evidence that the shortage significantly affected project implementation. The appointments of staff to key
positions took very long with significant effects, especially in the management of TB control program and
the financial management through MOH's Project Coordination Unit.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation agencies performed well considering the constraints, discussed above, under which
they had to work. As stated above, meeting practically all project targets and completing disbursements
with just a nine-months extension of the closing date was indeed a remarkable achievement. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) deserves high level of credit for overseeing the implementation of the project in a
situation of deficiencies and taking it to a successful completion.




                                                     - 12 -

On the negative side, inadequate coordination between PCU and the managers of the three national
programs caused occasional delays. Second, while the initiation of HMAs was admirable, many HMAs
were prepared without involvement of all stakeholders involved reducing their usefulness.

National programs did not keep records of project and program implementation clearly and separately.
Clear and separate reporting would have depicted clearer pictures of strengths and weaknesses and
appropriate actions.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at appraisal was US$35.6 million, including US$30.4 million (85.5%) from IDA and
US$5.2 million (14.5%) from the government. The changes in exchange rate between SDR and US dollar
reduced the Bank contribution to US$27.2 million and actual disbursement was US$ 26.8 million. The
expected provision of counterpart funding was US$ 5.2 million or 14.5% of total costs but the actual
provision was US$1.37 million or about 4.8% of the final total costs.

Actual expenditure by component was US$2.11 million for National TB Control, compared to US$2.95
million at appraisal, US$2.47 million for National Malaria Control, compared to US$2.69 million at
appraisal, US$4.88 million for National HIV/AIDS Control, compared to US$6.11 million at appraisal.
Reduced expenditures on national disease control programs did not create resource shortages as Cambodia
had been receiving funds from a number of other sources. The savings in the national programs were spent
on the Health Service Strengthening component, especially to finance additional costs of civil works.

An amendment was made to the credit agreement in June 1998 to allow for the transfer of procurement
responsibilities for civil works to the SFKC, with an accompanying allocation of SDR 71,411 to the SFKC
for consultancies and SDR 285,644 for salaries.

In April 2000 there was a significant increase in the allocation of consultant funds for the project as a
whole. The credit agreement was amended to increase the allocation of funds for consultant services from
SDR 4.948 million to SDR 6.778 million (37% increase). The rationale behind this action was the need to
get the project, especially the national programs, back on track after a very slow start. Three international
consultants (one for each program) were hired as technical assistance to the national programs.

In February 2002, the Bank approved an amendment to the credit agreement extending the closing date of
the project from March 31, 2002 to December 31, 2002, based on satisfactory improvements in
implementation and a sound action plan for the extension period.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project gains are likely to be sustained in the longer run. It is clear, and probably quite
understandable, that Cambodia will continue to require significant external assistance for the next several
years to sustain the programs. In the interest of longer term sustainability, the Government should prepare
plans and strategy, and should start increasing the proportion of its financing of essential services.

The issue of sustainability becomes especially important in the case of the three national programs, each of
which will need to be supported for a long time from public funds as the control of TB, Malaria and
HIV/AIDS are public responsibilities due to their public health effects. In addition, regular funding will be
required to carry out staff training and program supervision, and to maintain the health infrastructure
which were funded under this project. Practically all of these post-project costs will be covered under the



                                                     - 13 -

Health Sector Support Project (HSSP), approved in December 2002. HSSP covers 21 out of Cambodia's
24 provinces and runs until 2008. A field visit to Siem Reap Province, which is one of three provinces not
included in HSSP, already demonstrated funding shortages for supervision and training activities.
Kompong Thom Province, which is included in HSSP, also had no funds for supervision and training
activities as the funds from the new project had not yet started to flow.

On the positive side, Cambodia's demonstration of high level of commitment to the health sector has been
very encouraging. Health sector involves between 8 and 12 percent of GDP, which is high for a developing
country like Cambodia. It is also admirable that Government's spending on health has also been growing
very significantly in recent years. For example, total funding by the government increased from CR 26.7
billion in 1995 to a budgeted CR 147.7 billion (approximately US$39 million) in 2002, a 450% increase at
nominal price or 280% at constant price, implying a three-fold increase in dollars term. But two-thirds of
public spending come from external sources.

TB control program has been particularly expensive in Cambodia as all patients received free hospital care
during the early infection stage of about two months and free food for a period. The increasing amount of
grant funds, from GFATM and other souirces, is likely to add to the complacency. On the other hand, as
TB control is getting increasingly decentralized from referral hospitals to the health clinics, TB patients
care will all be ambulatory reducing the heavy burden on public funds.

On malaria control, the main concern is the costs of bednets. While private sector seems already active and
successful in selling the hammock nets, free distribution of bednets will be needed of some time.
HIV control program will have to be publicly managed and funded for the foreseeable future. It will be
hard for the Government to sustain the costs, especially when the costs of care and the use of antiretroviral
drugs will increase.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most activities supported by this project will be continued under the Health Sector Support Project
(HSSP) approved in December 2002. One notable exception is that HSSP, which will be implemented in
12 provinces by the Bank and in 9 by the ADB, will not use the PCU but will try to develop capacity
within the MOH to implement the new project. While the objective to rely on the regular MOH staff instead
of a PCU is a laudable goal, an abrupt discontinuation of PCU might have been shortsighted. After
significant efforts and investments, the PCU now seems capable to implement projects, including to deal
with the Bank's international financial and procurement practices. Its abolition is likely to result in
substantial time spent on the start-up of the second project.

For Malaria, there will be continued assistance under the new project to the CNM for further development
of the impregnated bed-nets and hammock-nets program, coping with drug-resistant strains of Malaria,
improved case detection and improved surveillance. Similarly for TB, the HSSP will support the further
promotion of DOTS (at the HC and below), integration of TB activities into health care delivery services,
improved TB case detection and management, strengthening supervision and training of health providers,
and IEC and other activities to induce behavioral change. For HIV/AIDS and STDs, the project will
support the procurement of STI drugs and the implementation in the field of the "100% condom use"
strategy that targets specifically sex workers and other high risk groups and effectively decreases STIs and
HIV transmission. In addition, in order to continue the benefits of the Health Sector Strengthening
component of the CDCHDP, the HSSP has a component devoted to: Accessibility and quality of health
services. The first objective of this sub-component is the continued development of primary health care
facilities and first (district) and second (provincial) referral hospitals, by financing civil works
(rehabilitation and new constructions), equipment, and maintenance.



                                                       - 14 -

Health Management Agreements, which were piloted during the CDCHDP as a key project management
and planning tool, will be transitioned to HSSP and expanded in order to clearly define the expectations and
responsibilities of both the MOH and the provincial authorities. This is expected to further improve the
relationship between the MOH and the PHDs to one of mutual responsibility and accountability, with a
single overall purpose of improving performance of public sector health services.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was very good and was appreciated by the Borrower.
The project design came from Cambodia's National Health Policy and prepared in joint collaboration with
the Government and other international partners. A very comprehensive project implementation plan (PIP)
was prepared by the Government with assistance from international consultants. The Staff Appraisal
Report, which was based on PIP, provided clear description of the program and the implementation
arrangements. The project was what the clients wanted and needed.

Implementation problems were anticipated but, in hindsight, the arrangements made were not sufficient for
financial and procurement matters as it relied mostly on external consultants rather than on more frequent
Bank supervision and intensive training by those experienced in Bank practices and requirements.

7.2 Supervision:
The quality of Bank supervision missions was satisfactory, and they were critical to the successful
implementation of this multi-component project, but the frequency of supervision missions was inadequate
for this first health sector operation in the country. The gaps in the original operational arrangements were
successfully filled by successive missions. Transfer of civil works responsibility to SFKC, establishment
of a second Special Account and 90-day advance system were critical to the successful project
implementation. The Bank missions were effective in monitoring most implementation shortfalls and taking
remedial steps.
Supervision ratings were realistic. The flag of "at risk" rating by August 200 mission was frank and
helped reinvigorate the implementation momentum.
A total of 108 staff weeks was used for the Bank's supervision.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's performance was fully satisfactory. It was excellent in the preparation stage except for the
weaknesses in operational preparedness discussed above. It was excellent during supervision period,
except for the shortcomings in three areas. First of all, as stated above, the Bank should have organized
many training events for MOH, PCU and provincial staff instead of heavy reliance on expatriate
consultants Second, the Bank should have definitely supervised the project more frequently than three
visits during the first two years after Board approval. Third, the Bank should have always used only a
single channel of the Task Team Leader for all project actions. A confusion was created by different
signals from different Bank staff on the use of the 90-day advance account (similar to second generation
special accounts) that delayed project implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
A PHRD grant has funded key aspects of project preparation, and the execution of the grant was split
between the MOH and the Association. The MOH used these funds to conduct various surveys and studies
including an infrastructure and equipment survey, a social marketing study, a TB patient compliance study



                                                       - 15 -

and a study of intravenous drug abuse as a potential route of HIV transmission (the latter three studies all
employed focus group research techniques) to determine component inputs based on community needs. A
high quality project implementation plan was prepared by MOH and reviewed with the mission on a regular
basis.

Project preparation was conducted using a participatory approach, and all efforts were made to involve
various stakeholders in project design and implementation decisions. First, extensive discussions were held
with MOH staff, provincial and district health authorities and donors, including provincial health advisors,
to determine the scope and coverage of the project. Second, technical working groups drawn from the line
departments were convened to consider policy and technical issues specific to the project components.
Third, a number of seminars were held on various topics such as Health Management Agreements, AIDS,
and Malaria to invite comments and suggestions from a wider audience with representation from NGOs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government of Cambodia was very receptive to advice and eager to try international best practices.
Besides MOH, the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MOEF) was involved in activities related to
financing and disbursements. MOEF's action to create the special 90-day accounts was key to giving more
decentralized authority to the project teams. Although the processing of the 90 day accounts took a long
time, its impact on project implementation was very positive. There were shortfalls in counterpart
financing, as only $1.4 million was provided compared to the original plan of $5.2 million, but this did not
affect project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project was implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Ministry of Health
(MOH). In the beginning, PCU was staffed by a large number of expatriate consultants. From February
2001, all PCU staff were domestic. PCU successfully managed this World Bank assisted project as well as
a similar project financed by the Asian Development Bank.

As noted above, there were difficulties in procurement and financial management mainly due to
inexperience with the World Bank procedures, lack of training and delays caused by assignment of
international procurement task to UNICEF. A few adjustments were made that helped to bring the project
implementation back on track and facilitated relatively strong performance of the project in terms of its
development objectives and the progress made to make up for the slow start in terms of disbursements and
procurement.

Bank supervision missions consistently rated the project as satisfactory, with the exception of one "at risk"
rating due to problems with procurement and project management.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered satisfactory. This rating is given because the project
implementation was completed in a satisfactory manner and had improved in the latter part of the project.
The problems with disbursement and procurement were satisfactorily tackled in the later stages of the
project. National programs largely attained their goals.

8. Lessons Learned

Political commitment is critical. Cambodia's health system was in a serious disarray caused by war,
political turmoil, poverty and a very low capacity to manage important program. Despite all these
handicaps, the country was successful to achieve the ambitious development objectives set in the project.
In absence of serious political commitments, demonstrated by high level of resource allocation, and


                                                    - 16 -

openness to learn from international best practice, the project would have no chance to succeed.

External technical assistance is important but can not solve all problems. The institutional development
gains and the success in project implementation owe a lot to effective external consultants. However, the
high inputs of external assistance, were not enough to tackle the shortcomings in finance and procurement
areas. In the end trial and error and experience helped, including the out-sourcing of civil works
procurement to SFKC and the decentralization of financial management to fit the country's circumstances.

Well intentioned plans are not enough; implementation capacity and willingness to share authority
are equally important. Although the HMAs were a well-intentioned project component, and have a great
potential in future, they underperformed because the capacity to understand and implement the HMA
system simply did not exist at the provincial (and lower) level and inadequate involvement of lower levels
of staff in the planning process. In many cases, the decisions regarding goals and outputs were set at the
top levels, although the involvement of all stakeholders was a key requirement.

Under-paid staff and high turnover hurt. Cambodia's systemic problem of under-paying staff and high
turnover of staff, a consequent of low pay, inevitably affected project implementation. This is a problem
which Cambodia cannot afford to postpone to address.

Project's impact evaluation should be planned well. The project carried out a baseline survey as well as
a final survey. In addition, two special evaluations were carried, one on health management agreements
and the other on contracting out of civil works. However, the final survey was not complete and on time
and was not validated for comparison with the baseline survey and to use in this report. Completion of that
survey and the addition of a final impact evaluation survey could have yielded valuable lessons.

Successful donor coordination greatly helps. In this project, PCUs became the foundation for effective
donor cooperation as it managed two health projects one each financed by the Bank and ADB and costs for
a number of activities were shared between the Bank and ADB. This was cost-effective and mutually
beneficial.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Provided by the Ministry of Health:

The Project has been the first World Bank project managed within the Health Sector. It has been a very
intensive learning experience from the Public Health System as a whole. A lot of experience has been
gained and the Ministry of Health is eager to start the second phase, the Health Sector Support Project.

Best Practice and Achievement

Improvements of health status from 1998 to 2002 are as follows: (i) the under five mortality improved
significantly from 97-117%o to 76-89%o; (ii) Contraceptive Prevalence Rate increase by 50%, from
14-18% to 23-26%; (iii) Antenatal Care coverage improved by 63%, from 31-37% to 54-57% with a
significant increase also during the first 6 months of pregnancy; (iv) Professional attendance at birth
increased by 12%, from 31-37% to 37-39%; (v) EPI performance most probably improved by 10%, from
35-43% to 40-46% and Tetanus Protected at Birth coverage improved by 69%, from 37-43% to 67-68%;
(vi) Outpatient consultation rates from 0.32 to 0.37 contacts / inhabitant / year; and (vii) also attendance of
curative services for children has an upward trend for diarrhea and ARI, 18-25 to 24-29 and 31 to 34-38%
respectively (NHS 1998 and Preliminary results of NHS 2002).


                                                     - 17 -

Health Service Strengthening

Construction and renovation of all prioritized Referral Hospitals (RH) and Health Centers (HC) of 11
project provinces with a provision of full medical equipment and furniture, support basic surgical training,
anesthetic nurses, and operating nurses, develop and improve integrated supervision of all levels, strengthen
planning capacity of national and provincial staff, and improving monitoring and evaluation system.

TB Component

To obtain the committed Case Detection Rate, the National Center for Tuberculosis (CENAT) has
developed and implemented the following strategies: (i) the National Health Policy on TB Control and the
National Health Strategic Plan for TB control 2001-2005; (ii) TB modules have been created and used; (iv)
Standardized recording and reporting system of tuberculosis have been used across the TB network; (v)
DOTS strategy has been applied well and at the same time the capacity of TB staff at all levels has been
remarkably improved; (vi) the NTP headquarter has been strengthened, including the renovation of TB
wards; (vii) the improvement of TB network; and (viii) expansion of health education on TB awareness
among population at community levels.


The best achievement of the TB component includes maintaining high cure rate of more than 85%,
expanding DOTS to health center level by providing training to around 50% of the Minimum Package of
Activities (MPHA) HCs, improving the program management improving skills on planning, monitoring,
and evaluation through formal training and on-the-job training, and maintaining sufficient TB drugs. In
collaboration with other donor, CENAT has conducted a National Drug Resistant Surveillance in
2000-2001 and a National TB Prevalence Survey in 2002.

Malaria Control Component

Many activities for improvement of the malaria condition in Cambodia had been carried out such as
improving the accessibility to malaria treatment and prevention at Health Posts (HPs), HCs, and RHs,
providing quality care by supporting the training of doctors and health workers at different levels,,
providing training to military hospital personnel and laboratory technicians to improve malaria diagnosis
and management, and strengthening the institutional capacity of the National Malaria Center (CNM)
through training in management and professional skills, overseas training, study tours.

Carrying out a pilot social marketing program to test the feasibility of nets distribution through commercial
channels. The result is that despite the initial delays in launching the pilot phase, a cumulative total of
9,223 hammock nets and 10,838 insecticide tablets were sold to the public in high risk areas. Many private
businesses are able to sell the hammock nets with highly competitive price.

In general, the utilization rates increased despite the fact that the total malaria incidence was showing a
declining trend during the last two years.

HIV/AIDS Component

MOH is proud to state that the overall objectives have been achieved and did contribute significantly in the
provision of HIV/AIDS related health services to the Cambodian population. The supports to the
achievement were the strengthening of the Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) activities,
increase outreach activities, implementation of 100% Condom Use (pilot and its expansion to many
provinces in the country), strengthening quality of blood transfusion services and make the services



                                                      - 18 -

available by geographical areas and improving of HIV/AIDS care services through NGO small grant
program. The National Center for HIV/AIDS, Dermatology and STD (NCHADS) has refined the model
strategies for targeted STI care within the 100% condom use and re-designed outreach program, melting
these three strategies into a single package for implementation at provincial level.
Capacity in surveillance and research has been significantly strengthened in NCHADS. The combined
epidemiological and behavioral sentinel surveillance systems and the tremendous amount of data now
available have been and are important tools to develop and monitor the existing strategy.

The World Bank Performance

The regular supervision has provided useful recommendation for the improvement of the Project
implementation. As at the onset of the project the Project staff was not familiar with the WB system and
procedures, the WB assistance during their supervision missions has been very crucial for the success of
the project. The project objectives and the implementation issues have been reviewed and assessed regularly
by the WB regular supervision missions particularly from June 1999 onward.

Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from this project are meaningful for the coordination of the health project with major
donors with different project cycles. Several new policy guidelines have been developed, partly as a
consequence of the gaps filled in, the problems encountered and the lessons learned from the CDCHDP
project. The efficiency of the use of a Grant system to fund activities that are better contracted out to
knowledgeable and competent stakeholders, which are more adapted to manage this kind of activities, was
clearly demonstrated with KHANA on managing small NGO activities in home based care for AIDS
patients countrywide.

Action Research on Social Marketing of Hammock Mosquito Nets is a powerful experience to combine
public and private interest. The project provided useful experiences that now can be used also in other
programs and even beyond the sector.

In-Service Training has proven to be a very cost efficient way to transfer skills. Instead of training abroad
which would be only possible for a few candidates the project managed to train OD doctors and nurses in
surgery and anesthesia, by joining forces with other stakeholders, like UNICEF and MSF. Community
participation in delivering health services are very important but very difficult to organize properly.

An independent structure within the MOH to coordinate the project has its advantages as it allow the staff
to concentrate on its work that is very well defined. This is a good management model for implementing
the future donor funded projects.

The Health Management Agreement is an internal agreement between the different stakeholders in
organizing the health services. This "gentlemen's contract" is an integral part of the planning and
monitoring tools.




                                                     - 19 -

Sustainability

The project activities have contributed tremendous efforts to the sustainability of the Cambodian health
system as a whole through the development of the long-term strategic plan with resources from government,
donors and other contribution from the users are the evidences of the sustainable development. Certain
activities have become accepted as routine activities that are inherent to proper management, like the need
for planning, monitoring, supervisory visits, exchange visits and meetings and commissioning of new
facilities. Because this project is part of a long term commitment by the World Bank, the next phase of
Health Sector Support Project will give the health system in Cambodia the possibility to consolidate its
achievements and to increase the efficiency in the return of the investment capital. Sustainable development
of the country, in particular, the health sector is surely, therefore, safeguarded in the long run.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

 Health System Strengthening
     Key Indicators          Proposed at Appraisal                      Actual
 Civil Works
 Total number of facilities rehabilitated/constructed
 and equipped
 Renovation
 Basic referral hospitals  8 basic referral hospitals      4
 rehabilitated
 Full referral hospitals   18 full referral hospitals      18
 rehabilitated
 Health centers            57 renovation                   26
 rehabilitated
  Sub-total: Health        26 with TB Beds                 6
  centers with TB beds
 Construction
 Health centers            173 new construction            170
 Operational district      10 new construction             16 (15 new and 1 renovated)
 offices
 Provincial blood                           -              8
 transfusion centers
 OD pharmacies                              -              11 (9 new and 2 renovated)
 STD clinics                                -              5
 In-Service Training
 Medical Doctors                            -              36 (20 from original PPUs)
 Anesthetic nurses                          -              12 (10 from original PPUs)
 Operating theater                          -              38 (29from original PPUs)
 nurses
 Increasing annual         Service utilization @ 0.3 new   1997: 0.32 visits per capita
 utilization rates for     outpatient visits (RH+HC) per   2002: 0.34 visits per capita
 facilities                capita

 Tuberculosis Control
     Key Indicators          Proposed at Appraisal                     Actual
  TB prevalence                                            539 per 100,000 persons (1997)
                                                           585 per 100,000 persons (2001)
  % of TB cases cured      Cure rate > 85%                 89% (2002)
  Relapse rate             Relapse rate < 5%               4.8%: 1998
                                                           4.7%: 1999

  Case Detection Rate      70% by 2005                     57% (2002)
  (Smear+ TB)
  DOTS Coverage                                            2000: 138 out of 946
  (Coverage at Health                                      2001: 342 out of 946
  Clinic level, the lowest                                 2002: 464 out of 946
  level, out of total 946)




                                                  - 21 -

Malaria Control
   Key Indicators        Proposed at Appraisal               Actual
Number of Malaria                                1997: 170,387
Cases                                            2001: 115,614
Case Fatalities        Reduce by 20% by 2005     1997: 865
                       (2000 baseline)           2001: 420 (51% decrease)
Estimated Coverage                               105,000 impregnated bednets
by bed-nets for high                             distributed
risk groups in target
areas : 600,000 total
population

HIV/AIDS Control
   Key Indicators        Proposed at Appraisal               Actual
Prevalence of             None                   1998: 3.8 %
HIV/AIDS                                         1999: 3.2%
(among 19 to year old                            2000: 2.9%
population)                                      2001: 2.7%
Prevalence of HIV in                             2.5% (1995)
TB patients                                      8.4% (2002)
% of Sex workers                                 1997: 42%
using condoms                                    1999: 78%




                                         - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Costs by Component
                                               Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage
      Project Cost by Component                Estimate      Estimate         of
                                              (US$ Million) (US$ Million) Appraisal
    National Programs                             11.75         9.46          81
                                          TB       2.95         2.11          72
                                      Malaria      2.69         2.47          92
                                    HIV/AIDS       6.11         4.88          80
    Health Services Strengthening                 18.66        17.10          92
                           Facility Upgrading     10.42         9.22          88
                 Equipment & Transportation        2.98
                      Essential Drug Supply        2.60         7.86         105
                          In-Service Training      0.23
                         MoH Strengthening         2.44
    Total Baseline Costs                          30.41        26.56          87
      Physical Contingencies (5% of Base)          1.5
      Price Contingencies (10% of Base)            3.0
                        Total Project Costs       34.91        26.56
                  Total Financing Required        34.91        26.56
   Figures may not add up due to rounding




                                                - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)

  Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method             Total
                                     ICB           NCB           Other    NBF   Cost

 Civil Works                                         7.9           4.1     0.1    12.1
                                                    (7.1)         (3.7)          (10.8)
 Goods
                                                                                  7.6
 a. Equipment and Vehicles             5.3           1.6           0.2     0.5
                                     (5.3)          (1.6)         (0.2)          (7.1)
                                                                                  2.7
 b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals            2.7
                                     (2.7)                                       (2.7)
 Training, Technical Assistance & Studies
                                                                                  3.0
 a. Training                                                       2.8     0.2
                                                                  (2.7)          (2.7)
 b. Technical Assistance                                           2.8            2.8
 - Policy Support: $0.8 million                                   (2.8)          (2.8)
 - Institutional Development: $0.9
   million
 - Implementation Support: $1.1
   million

 c. Studies                                                        2.5
                                                                  (2.5)

 Grant                                                             0.7            0.7
                                                                  (0.7)          (0.7)
 Incremental Operating Cost                                        1.1     1.1    2.2
 & Supplies                                                       (1.0)          (1.0)
 Provincial Supervision                                            0.2           (0.2)
 Costs                                                            (0.1)          (0.1)

 Maintenance                                                               1.3    1.3


 Staff Remuneration                                                        0.5    0.5


 Total                                 7.9           9.4           14.4    3.8    35.6
                                     (7.9)          (8.7)         (13.8)         (30.4)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the ITF.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.




                                                  - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)

     Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method          Total
                                           ICB       NCB         Other   NBF   Cost
                                            0         4.8         1.6    3.48  9.88
 Civil Works

 Goods
                                           2.5       0.84        1.32          4.66
 a. Equipment and Vehicles

                                           0.32                  1.72          2.04
 b. Drugs & Pharmaceuticals

 Training, Technical Assistance & Studies                            8.91
 8.91

 a. Training

 b. Technical Assistance
 - Policy Support: $0.8 million
 - Institutional Development: $0.9 million
 - Implementation Support: $1.1 million

 c. Studies

 Grant                                                           0.53          0.53

 Incremental Operating Cost &                                    0.66          0.66
 Supplies

 Provincial Supervision Costs                                    0.41          0.41


 Maintenance


 Staff Remuneration


 Total                                                                         27.09

Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the ITF.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.




                                                    - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (US$ million equivalent )
 Component        Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of Appraisal
                 Bank   Govt.     CoF Bank    Govt.     CoF  Bank   Govt.    CoF
A. National Programs
            TB    2.9    0.4       -  2.21      -        -   76%      -        -
       Malaria    2.7    1.3       -  2.40      -        -   9.1%     -        -
     HIV/AIDS     6.1    1.1       -  4.70      -        -   78%      -        -
Subtotal         11.7    2.8       -  9.40      -        -   80%      -        -
B. Health Services
Strengthening
        Facility 10.4    1.8       -  10.21     -        -   98%      -        -
    Upgrading
  Equipment &     3.0    0.2       -  2.28      -        -   76%      -        -
 Transportation
 Essential Drug   2.6    0.0       -  2.04      -        -   78%      -        -
        Supply
    In-Service    0.2    0.0       -  0.42      -        -   210%     -        -
      Training
           MoH    2.4    0.4       -  2.74      -        -   1.14%    -        -
 Strengthening
Subtotal         18.7    2.4       -  17.69     -        -   94%      -        -
Total            30.4    5.2       -  27.09     2        -   89%     38%       -




                                      - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not calculated at appraisal for this project, nor was it calculated
after its closure.




                                              - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/94                     1    MISSION LEADER (1)
              08/95                   11     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TUBERCULOSIS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MALARIA SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEGAL OFFICER (1);
                                             EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST (1)
              11/95-12/95             10     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MALARIA SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (2), FINANCE SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1); EQUIPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/96--03/96              8    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1), LEGAL
                                             OFFICER (1); HUMAN
                                             RESOURCES SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST
                                             (1); MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1)
              03/96                     4    MISSION LEADER (1); LEGAL
                                             OFFICER (1); PUBLIC
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              07/96                     5    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/96                     5    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 28 -

                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                           (1)

Supervision

           02/28/1997    2 PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST        S    S
                           (1); MISSION LEADER (1)
           09/11/1997    3 BUDGETING SPECIALIST (1);       S    S
                           HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                           MISSION LEADER (1)
           06/10/1998    3 TASK MANAGER (1);               S    S
                           HIV/AIDS CONSULTANT (1);
                           ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                           (1)
           02/03/1999    6 MISSION LEADER (1);             S    S
                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                           TB SPECIALIST; GTB (1);
                           AIDS CONSULTANT (1);
                           ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                           (1); ECONOMIST (HEALTH)
                           (1)
           06/18/1999    2 TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT        S    S
                           IMPLEMENT. SPECIALIST (1)
           06/18/1999    7 TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT        S    S
                           ANALYST (1); PUBLIC
                           HEALTH SPECIALI (1);
                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1); MALARIA SPECIALIST
                           (1); HIV/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                           TB SPECIALIST (1)
           08/30/2000    4 TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC         S    S
                           HEALTH (1); PROJECT
                           ANALYST (1); CIVIL WORKS
                           (1)
           08/30/2000    4 TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC         S    S
                           HEALTH SPECIALI (1);
                           PROJECT ANALYST (1);
                           ARCHITECT/CONSULTANT
                           (1)
           07/24/2001    2 TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT        S    S
                           IMPLEM. SPEC. (1)
           03/15/2002    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                           PROJECT ANALYST (1);
                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                           (1); ARCHITECT (1)


ICR
           03/03         2 TASK MANAGER (1);
                           CONSULTANT (1)




                           - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       NA                           487.03
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            NA                              NA
  Supervision                                      NA                           445.31
  ICR                                              NA                              NA
  Total                                                                         932.34
Note: Identification/Preparation costs include Appraisal/Negotiation. Supervision costs include ICR.




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Staff Appraisal Report. (Report No. 15596-KH). November 15,
1996.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Development Credit Agreement between Kingdom of Cambodia and
International Development Association. December 23, 1991.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. February 1997.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. September 1997.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. June 1998.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. February 1999.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. June 1999.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. December 1999.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. August 2000.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. December 2000.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. July 2001.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Supervision Mission Aide Memoire. March 2002.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Procurement Post Review Mission Report. March 2002.
World Bank. Cambodia: Poverty Assessment. (Report No. 15858-KH). November 22, 1999.
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Draft Report on the Health Services Strengthening Component
(MTR). December 19, 1999
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Report on Malaria Component (MTR). December 22, 1999
World Bank. Cambodia: CDCHDP. Report on HIV/AIDS Component (MTR). December 22, 1999
World Bank. Cambodia: HSSP. Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 24220-KH). November 25, 2002
World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy for Cambodia (Report No. 14465-KH). May 10, 1995.

Government
Ministry of Health (PCU). Cambodia CDCHDP: Midterm Review Report. November 1999
Ministry of Health (PCU). Cambodia CDCHDP: Final Project Report. December 2002
Ministry of Health (PCU). Cambodia CDCHDP: Health Management Agreement Audit. June 2001

Other Reports
AIDS epidemic update: December 2000. UNAIDS/00.44E ­ WHO/CDS/CSR/EDC/2000.9
AIDS epidemic update: December 2001. UNAIDS/1.74E ­ WHO/CDS/CSR/NCS/2001.2
AIDS epidemic update: December 2002. UNAIDS/02.58E
Consultant Report (Coffey Philippines Inc.) prepared for MoH, Final Projects Evaluation Survey.
CDCHDP. November 2002
Epidemiological Fact Sheets on HIV/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infections
UNAIDS (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS). Fact Sheet 2002: Asia and the Pacific. July
2002
UNAIDS (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS). Report on the global HIV/AIDS epidemic:
June 2000. UNAIDS/00.13E
UNAIDS / WHO (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization)
UNAIDS / WHO (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization)
UNAIDS / WHO (Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization)
UNAIDS/WHO Working Group on Global HIV/AIDS and STI Surveillance. Cambodia:
World Health Organization. Global Tuberculosis Control Report 2002 (WHO/CDS/TB/2002.295)
World Health Organization. Global Tuberculosis Control Report 2003 (WHO/CDS/TB/2003.316)




                                                  - 33 -

- 34 -

