RESTRICTED
FILE          CWar PY                  Report No. P-512
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM      OF THAILAND
FOR THE VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
September 29,-- 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMNDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
ECECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
KIN1GDOM OF THAILAND lOR A
VOCATIOHAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$6 million to the Kingdom of Thailand for a Vocational Education Project.
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.        An education project for possible Bank financing was proposed
by the Government of Thailand following a UNESCO mission which visited
Thailand in September 1963 to draw up a program of investment in
education.   This mission broadly outlined Thailand's education needs
and in June 1964, at the request of the Government of Thailand, the Bank
and UNESCO sent a joint mission, under the cooperative pro-ram, to
advise and assist the Thai authorities in the preparation of a project
which would be suitable for a Bank loan.
3.        The project proposals and a formal application for a loan were
received in September 1964; the project was appraised in Ntovember -
December 196h.   The appraisal indicated that the project was feasible
but should be reduced in size and scope so as to conform more closely
to the country's estimated manpower requirements.   The adjustments
proposed in the appraisal report have been accepted by tn, Government.
41.      FNegotiations for a proposed loan on these terms were held in
Washington in September 1965.   The Government was represented by a
delegation headed by H.1E. Ambassador Sukich Nimmanaheminda, and
Mr. Abhai Chanbabimol, Under Secretary of State for Education.    By
arraneement with the Government further consideration of the project
was deferred until architectural consultants, a project adviser and
equipment and training specialists had been selected and appointed.
Wjiith the exception of the architectural consultants already appointed by
Thailand, these experts have been found by US AID, which will be meeting
the costs of employing them.
5.        If the proposed loan is approved, it would be the Bank's
sixteenth loan to Thailand, and would increase the total of Bank loans
to Thailand to $234.2 million (net of cancellations).    Of these, six
have been fully disbursed.   The following is a summary statement of
Bank loans to Thailand as at August 31, 1966.



- 2 -
Summary Statement of Bank Loans to Thailand
Year
of         Borrower                 Purpose      Principal
Loan                                               Amount    Undisbursed
1950  Kingdom of Thailand  Railway Rehabilitation  $   3.0
Kingdom of Thailand Port Improvement              4.4
Kingdom of Thailand Irrigation                  18.0
1955  State Railways       Railway Rehabilitation     12.0
1956 Port Authority        Port Improvement            3.3
1957 Yanhee Electricity    Multi-purpose               65.8
Authority
1961  State Railways       Railway Rehabilitation    1.6         3.8
1962  Kingdom of Thailand Petchburi Irrigation         3.4          .8
Kingdom of Thailand  Third Chao Phya              5.6         .9
Irrigation
1963  Yanhee Electricity   Power                       6.6          .2
Authority
Kingdom of Thailand National Highways            25.0      18.9
1964 Industrial Finance    Industry                     2.5       1.6
Corporation
of Thailand
Kingdom of Thailand Meklong Irrigation           22.0      16.6
1965  Yanhee Electricity   Power                       6.0        3.8
Authority
1966  Kingdom of Thailand  National Highways          36.0       36.0
Total (less cancellations):                        $  228.2
of wh.ich. has been repaid:                        35.7
Total now outstanding:                               192.5
Amount sold:                           $15 .0
of which has been repaid:             7.7            7.3
Total now held by the Bank:                          185.2
Total undisbursed:                                               82.6
No IDA credits have been made to Thailand.



- 3 -
6.        The progress of Bank-financed projects in Thailand generally
has been satisfactory.   Complicated procurement procedures caused some
delay in disbursing the 1961 Railway Loan (280-TH).   The Bank has
agreed to a postponement of the Closing Date of the loan to
Septeinber 30, 1967 to meet commitments entered into by June 30, 1966.
It is believed that the loan will be fully disbursed by the revised
Closing Date.   The slow rate of disbursements from the 1963 National
Highways Loan and the 1964 Meklong Irrigation Loan reflects some
slowness in starting up, and the time taken to carry out preliminary
engineering works and to order equipment.   These projects are still
expected to be completed on schedule.
7.        The following projects are under consideration, and are
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors before the end of
the year:
a)   Nan River Project    -    about $26 million
b)   Telecommunications   -    about $20 million.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:                Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies
of $6 million.
Purpose:                 To help finance the purchase of equipment
required for the Government's Vocational
Education Program.
Interest:                6% per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/8 of 1% per annum.
Term and Amortization:   Thirty years with no amortization during
the first ten years.   Then semi-annual
installments to retire the loan on
November 1, 1996.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A detailed appraisal of the project (TO478b) is attached. (No. 1)



- 4 -
10.   Thailand has made considerable progress in the last 20 years to
adapt its education system to the needs of the country.    In 1960 the
Government launched a National Scheme of Education which extended the
period of coi!pulsory education from 4 to 7 years, gave greater emphasis
to vocational education and attempted to fit education into the overall
development of the country.   There remains, however, a major deficiency
in the number of technicians capable of assisting Thailand's expanding
industry and helping to modernize agriculture.    The project described
in the attached report will increase the output of students with a
vocational education and should significantly improve the quality of
their training.
11.   The project has two main features:   the expansion and improvement
of facilities at 14 trades and industries schools and 10 agricultural
schools and the expansion and improvement of two institutions for
training technical and agricultural instructors.
12.   Since 1959 output in the manufacturing sector is estimated to
havje increased by about 10% a year.   Continued industrial growth will
require increased numbers of skilled workers and technicans.    On the
assumption that industrial employment will increase 6-7% every year the
demand for skilled workers with trade school qualifications between 1960
and 1980 is estimated to average about 3,600 per annum.    The expanded
facilities of the trade schools included in the project will increase
output of graduiates by 900 to a total of 2,100 per annum.   Together
with the output of the trade schools and other sources outside the
project the supply of craftsmen and technicians is expected to meet
requirements until about 1975.   The National Vocational Training
Committee, which will include representatives of industry, will contin-
uously review the role of the trade schools to ensure that the schools'
programs meet the requirements of industry, and will consider the
need for further expansion.
13.   The training of teachers for the trade schools will be concentrated
at Thewes College, Bangkok.   In 1962 about 2,250 of the 4,670
vocational teachers were unqualified.    The College's courses are
designed, therefore, to ungrade unqualified teachers as well as to
prepare new recruits from the universities, vocational schools and
industry for technical teac'ing.   The new facilities at Thewes College
are designed to turn out 250 teachers a year, the estimated annual
demand between 1966 and 1,)68.  Of this number, about 100 will be
required for the project schools.
14.   Agriculture is the backbone of the Thai economy, and more than 80%
of the population depend on agriculture for their livelihood.    Despite
impressive increases in production in the last 15 years further increases
will depend to a large extent on the provision of adequate supporting
services to farmers.   Thailand will need about 900 middle-level
agriculturalists a year for employment in extension services, farmers'
cooperatives, settlement schemes and as research assistants.    An
additional 400 will be required by the private sector or will pursue
careers in higher academic work.   With the expansion of their
facilities the ten agricultural schools included in the project will
turn out about 1,250 graduates a year and should meet expected needs.



15.      A limited program of diploma level training is included in
the project to produce each year some 110 agricultural technicians from
four of the agricultural schools and 25 teachers from the Bang Pra
Teacher Traiding Gollege.   At the same time, a higher agricultural
education program is being established in the universities.
16.      In-service teacher training programs are also to be established
at Bang Pra to raise the level of instruction in the agricultural schools.
The importance of these schools to agriculture will also be increased
by the establishment of advisory committees to coordinate their
teaching with extension and the other services of the Ministry of
Agriculture.
17.      The success of the trade and agricultural schools will depend
to a great extent on the quality of the teachers.   For this reason
Thewes and Bang Pra College will receive the assistance of eleven
expatriate teaching specialists to be supplied by US AID, one for each
course offered, who will assist in the preparation of curricula and
help develop teacher training techniques.   Two Thai counterparts will
be assigned to each specialist and will ultimately replace them.
18.      There is no shortage of suitable candidates for the trade and
agricultural schools nor should the graduates have any difficulty in
finding suitable jobs.
19.      The total cost of the project is estimated at $21 million
of which the Bank's loan of $6 million would be used to meet the
eouipment and livestock costs of the project.    The Government has
undertaken to finance the remaining costs of about $15 million, including
foreign exchange costs of about $4 million, from their own resources,
partly by budgetary appropriations and the remainder by a loan equivalent
to $8 million from the Bank of Thailand on terms si-milar to those for
IDA credits.    The Government has also undertaken that all funds
necessary to operate and maintain the project will be provided.    The
project will be carried out by the Ministry of Education with the assistance
of a project adviser and architectural con-ultants.
20.      Procurement of equipment and livestock will, to the extent
practicable, be on the basis of international competitive bidding and in
conformity with the procedures outlined in the "Guidelines relating to
Drocurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits".    The Ministry of
Education will set up a central purchasing agency to take over local
procurement by individual schools and will employ two equipment
specialists to advise on the preparation of equipment lists.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section h (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.   The Loan Agreement conforms
substantially to the usual pattern for projects of this kind.    In



- 6 -
addition, Section 5.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement requires the Borrower
to establish and maintain a central purchasing agency in the Ministry
of Education.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
22.       An economic report on the situation of Thailand (FE 53b)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 24, 1966.   A brief
resume of the report is given in the following paragraphs.
23.       The Thai economy has established an impressive record of
economic growth.   In the early 1960's real output rose by 7.5% a
year.   Rapidly rising exports and domestic savings enabled the economy
to support a steep increase in investment, from under 16% of gross domestic
product in 1957 to 22% in 1965, while the resource gap went up only
marginally.   This is a remarkable achievement for a country which,
despite fast growth, is still relatively poor, with an average per
capita income of $120.   In general, the policies of the Thai Government
were well suited to the needs of the economy as they were directed
towards encouraging private activity. Proper management of fiscal
affairs and monetary policy maintained overall financial stability,
encouraged growth of exports, and attracted an increasing flow of
foreign private capital.   Public outlays were raised substantially
in recent years and on the whole were directed effectively towards
meeting urgent economic and social needs.
24.       The five years 1967-1971 covered by Thailand's Second Plan
are expected to be a period of continuing economic growtth, though the pace
is likely to be somewhat slower than in the recent past.   Growth in real
income is likely to be around 6.5 - 7% a year which would permit further
substantial increases in income per head.   As in the past, investment
will probably increase more rapidly than gross domestic product.
Moreover, the basic trend is for exports and domestic savings to grow
more slowly than investment and associated imports so that foreign
financing on a somewhat larger scale is likely to be required.
Thailand's purformance and the prospect of increasing investment along
sati-sfactory lines would justify an increase in borrowing abroad from
official sources. This would raise no question of creditworthiness.
However, it is uncertain now to what extent Thailand will have to resort
to such increased borrowing as foreign spending in the country presently
provides substantial foreign exchange receipts which er. reflected in a
sharp rise in exchange reserves in 1966.
25.       A Consultative Group for Thailand has been sponsored by the
Bank to develop and coordinate financial and technical assistance in
support of Thailand's Second Plan.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the
requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 7 -
PART VII - RECO1IY4ENDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Kingdom of Thailand (Vocational Education Project)
in the amount of the equivalent of US$ 6 million
RESOLV,M VD
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Kingdom of Thailand
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million United
States dollars (US $6,000,000), to mature on and prior to
November 1, 1* , to bear interest at the rate of six (6%) per cent
per annum, andtto be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially fn accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in the form of Loan Agreement (Vocational Education Project) between
the Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank which has been presented to this
meeting.
IWTashington, D.C.                                     George D. Woods
September 29, 1966                                       President



