RETURN     TO                                    RESTRICTED
RE          D                                        Report No. TO-478b
R~~~1LE CAn
NE WEEK              FL             1
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
THAILAND
~RETU:N Tgl
Ald       -   6   T -3 Z- 
September 19, 1966
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
A rate of 1% 20.0 = U. S. $1. 00 is used in the report.
(by rounding the actual rate of 1% 20. 75 = U.S. $1. 00)
Basic Data
Area:                                 200, 000 square miles
Population: 32. 9 million (mid 1966)  Growth rate: 3. 3% p. a.
Gross Domestic Product, total         j 79. 7 billion (U. S. $3. 84 billion)
Gross Domestic Product, per head
(1965):    -1 2, 490 (U.S. $1 20)
Gross Domestic Product by origin
as percentage:
Agriculture                        34%
Manufacturing, mining, and
construction                   20%
All other                          46%
100%
RETURN TO REPORTS DE8



THAILAND
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraph
No.
SUMMAY    .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . ..             , ................ i-ix
I . DJMODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1-4
II. EDUJCATION AND TRAINING  ..    .*..........          .    5-31
The Educational System   . . . . . . . .     ... . .  5-10
Trades and Industries Schools  . . .   . * . . . . . . 11-17
Other Technical Training . . . . . . .   . . ..  . .  18-19
Agricultural Schools . a  . o . . . . . .  . . .  . . .  20-24
University Education   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25-26
Financing of Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27-29
School Construction  . . . a . * . . a . . . . . . . 30-31
III  STUE NEED FOR THEPROJECT. .99@*99999999                  32-49
Manpower for Industry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33-40
Manpower for Agriculture . . . . . .....     . ... .41-49
IV. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . .    . * .      .     . . .a. 50-69
Project Components and Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . 51-64
Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65-67
Architectural Services . . . . ....       .  .  .  .  .  ..  68
Financial Implications .      .      .    .  .  .  .  .  ..  69
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . 70- 83
This report is based on the findings of a mission in November-December,
1964, to Thailand, composed of Messrs. A. Macris, S. J. G. Burt and R.
Picciotto of the Bank and Mr. J. Kulski, a consultant to the Bank.



-2-
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Chart - Organization of Ministry of Education
it  2  - Chart - Educational System (Flow Diagram)
"   3  - Table - Enrollment Statistics (1959-63)
A. Total Enrollment (public and private schools)
B. Enrollment in Private Schools
C. Enrollment in Universities (1964)
D. University Graduates in Selected Fields
n 4a - Chart - Educational Pyramid (grades 1-16)
4b - Chart - Educational Pyramid (grades 8-16)
5  - Table - Enrollments in Upper Secondary Vocational Schools (1963)
" 6 - Table - Budgetary Allocations to the Department of Vocational
Education (1960-65)
" 7 - Chart - Organization of Department of Vocational Education
t   8  - Table - Expenditure on Education, 1960-1964
"   9  - Table - Manpower Statistics (1960)
A. Employment by Economic Sector
B. Employment by Occupations
C. Government Employment
D. Educational Attainment of Population
" 10 - Table - Demand for Skilled Workers, 1960-1980
" 11 - Table - Project Costs
A. Summary
B. Trades and Industries Schools and Technical
Teacher Training College
C. Agricultural Schools and Teacher Training College
" 12 - Table - Present and Proposed Enrollment in Project Schools
A. Summary
B. Trades and Industries Schools
C. Technical Teacher Training College
D. Agricultural Schools and Teacher Training College
" 13 - Table - Technical Teacher Supply and Requirements (1966-70)
A. Estimated Enrollment and Output
B. Estimated Requirements
" 14 - Table - Financial Projection (1966-1970)
MAP - Map of Thailand Location of Project Schools and Educational
Regions.



THAILAND
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUNINARY
The Government of Thailand, with assistance from Unesco, has
presented to the Bank a project to strengthen and expand vocational
education and teacher training for agriculture and industry.
ii.     Aided by SEATO member countries, the Government has improved
its vocational training by instituting trades and industries schools at
upper secondary level, adding new equipment and establishing a voca-
tional teacher training college.   The Government has also obtained
bilateral assistance to improve facilities and prepare teachers for
agricultural schools at the upper secondary level.   However, Thailand
needs to expand further its facilities and programs for training the
craftsmen and technicians needed to develop industry and modernize
agriculture.
iii.    The project as presented proposed a six-year program comprising
the expansion of 39 schools for industrial and agricultural education
and vocational teacher training.
iv.     During the appraisal it was agreed to reduce the project to a
three-year program which conformed more nearly to estimated manpower
requirements.   The revised project provides (a) for the expansion in
buildings and equipment of 14 trades and industries schools increasing
capacity by 2,100 places and providing much needed equipment and
improved space for the existing 4,900 students; (b) similar expansion
and improvement for ten agricultural schools, increasing enrollment
from 1,900 to about 4,300 students; (c)improved facilities for one
technical teacher training college with an anticipated enrollment of
550 students and annual output of 250 teachers; and (d) improved
facilities at one agricultural teacher training center for an enroll-
ment of 90 and an annual output of 25.   Annual outputs of the trades
schools will be 2,100 and of the agricultural schools 1,250.
v.      Equipment lists have been reviewed and revised to meet the
needs of the various teaching programs as economically as possible.
Proposed space accommodation has been carefully considered and amended
where necessary.   Staff housing and boarding accommodation have been
reduced to the essential minimum.
vi.     There is strong demand for the personnel to be trained in the
project.   The anticipated number of applicants, location of the
schools, the curricula, the educational resources being provided,
proposed improvements in the recruitment of teachers, the teacher
training program and the teaching methods envisaged offer reasonable
assurance of achieving the objectives sought by the project.
vii.    The additional teaching staff required for the new facilities
will be secured from existing sources and the increased out-turn from
the expanded teacher training colleges.   It is necessary, however,



- ii -
to reinforce these efforts with technical assistance and provision has
been made by U.S. AID to supply (a) two teams of specialists to assist
in the pre- and in-service training of teachers for the trades and
agricultural schools, and (b) fellowships to train abroad the counter-
parts of the foreign specialists.
viii.   In order to ensure proper implementation of the project, the
Government has appointed a project director who will be assisted by
an educational adviser and two equipment specialists, also supplied
by U.S. AID.   A firm of architectural consultants will assist with
the building designs, tendering, award of contracts, and the super-
vision of construction work.
ix.     The project costs are estimated at the equivalent of US $21
million with foreign currency costs at about US $10 million.   The
Government of Thailand requests Bank financing only for the procurement
of school, shop and farm equipment.   It is therefore recommended that
the proposed Bank loan should be $6 million representing the full cost
of equipment.   The balance is to be covered by the Government of
Thailand partly by budgetary appropriations and partly by borrowing
from the Bank of Thailand.   The proposed term of 30 years including
a period of grace of ten years appears appropriate to this type of
project.   Annual recurrent cost which the proposed project will create
is estimated at the equivalent of US $1 million.   Provision of this
sum and the domestic contribution to the project costs have been agreed
by and are within the capacity of the Government.



THAILAND
VOCATIONAL EDUWCATION PROJECT
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.      In September 1964, the Government of Thailand requested the Bank
to help finance a program to expand and modernize vocational training
for agriculture and industry.
2.      The request was based on an original enquiry in 1962, supple-
mented by further proposals in 1963.   The Government was assisted in
formulating its proposals by the report of a Unesco educational invest-
ment programming mission in 1963 and a Unesco/Bank project preparation
mission in mid-1964.
3.      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Thailand in November-December 1964, and consisted of
Messrs. A. Macris, S. J. G. Burt, R. Picciotto and J. Kulski (consultant).
The mission drew on the report of the 1963 Unesco mission and on a joint
Thai-U.S. AID study of human resources made in 1963.   As will be seen
in Section IV below, the appraisal mission suggested a reduced program,
which the Government accepted.
4.      The interval of nearly two years between the appraisal visit and
the submission of the documents to the Board is unusually long because it
was agreed with the Government that considerable progress in the engage-
ment of technical advisers and architectural consultants should be made
before presentation.   This would considerably shorten the period likely
to elapse betwyeen signing the Loan Agreement and the disbursement of
funds.   The engagement of consultants and advisers is now virtually
completed.



-2-
II.  EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Educational System
5.      Education has made remarkable progress since 1870, when the first
modern-type school was established by King Chulalongkorn.   Developments
since then include the Compulsory Education Act of 1935, which introduced
four years of compulsory primary education; the establishment of the
National Education Council in 1951; the promulgation of the National
Scheme of Education in 1960, which provides for the extension of com-
pulsory education from four to seven years, puts greater emphasis on
vocational education and attempts to fit education into the overall develop-
ment policy of the country. Within the frartiework of the general policies laid
down by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Education has charge of
elementary, secondary and technical education and of teacher training, and
the Office of the Prime Minister has responsibility for university education.
The Prime Minister is the chairman of the National Education Council and
the Minister of Education is chairman of its executive committee.
6.      At Ministry headquarters (Annex 1), the Minister and his Under-
secretaries are assisted by eight Directors-General in charge of Depart-
ments of Teacher Training, Secondary, Vocational, Physical, Elementary
and Adult Education, Religious Affairs, Education Techniques, and Fine
Arts.   Each Department possesses considerable autonomy in operating its
program, has its own supervisory staff, and deals directly with the Bureau
of the Budget.   The central services of the Ministry are responsible for
school administration and inspection in the Bangkok-Thonburi area; in
the provinces this work is done by twelve regional education officers and
some 70 provincial education superintendents.
7.      The school system (Annex 2) comprises pre-school or kindergarten
classes, primary, secondary (including vocational) and higher education.
Primary schools include junior primary (grades 1-4) and senior primary
(grades 5-7).   Secondary schools are lower secondary (grades 8-10) and
upper secondary (grades 11-12 for general education and grades 11-13 for
vocational education).   Higher education is offered by the universities,
technical institutes, teacher training colleges and other institutions
with specialized post-secondary programs.   Enrollment figures are shown
in Annex 3 and education pyramids at Annexes 4a and 4b.
8.      Secondary schools are academic or vocational.   This division is
found at both lower and upper secondary levels but Government policy now
is to discontinue the lower vocational secondary schools.   Enrollment
in the academic upper secondary schools (grades 11-12) totals about
40,000 which compares with enrollment of 28,000 in the upper vocational
schools and 11,000 in the teacher training programs of secondary level.
Thus there is not excessive emphasis on academic education.



-3-
9.      Vocational education was introduced as part of the educational
system after the reform of 1935, mainly at the lower secondary level
(grades 8-10).   These lower level vocational schools became unpopular
because the graduates could not obtain employment and were not prepared
for entry into upper academic schools.   Some of these schools have now
closed and the Ministry plans to combine the remaining ones with academic
lower secondary schools to form comprehensive schools to prepare students
for entry into upper level academic and vocational schools.   The voca-
tional program of the Ministry of Education is now concentrated on train-
ing at the upper secondary level (grades 11-13). Enrollment and budgetary
appropriations are shown at Annexes 5 and 6.
10.     The Department of Vocational Education is responsible for the
vocational and technical education programs of the Ministry of Education.
It is headed by a Director-General assisted by several directors (Annex 7).
The inspectorate is inadequately staffed and improvement and expansion are
needed here as in the administration.   The Government has agreed that the
Department should recruit more graduate engineers and skilled instructors
with teaching and industrial experience for these duties.
Trades and Industries Schools
11.     Out of recent efforts to provide training more appropriate to the
needs of advancing industry grew 26 trades and industries schools; they
are upper vocational secondary schools expanded to teach engineering
subjects.   Three-year courses are offered in building construction,
machine shop work,   metalworking, radio and television servicing, auto
mechanics and electrician's work.   Nineteen of the schools were set up
under the SEATO Skilled Labor Project which provided workshops for six
engineering trades to be taught and a Vocational Teacher Training Center
giving 6-month courses to meet the urgent need for instructors.   Seven
additional schools were set up by the Government to parallel the SEATO
schools.   Tuition fee is 100 per month.   At present, about 5,500
students are enrolled in the SEATO and SEATO-type schools, and there is
an excess of applicants over places.   These schools marked a significant
development in training of skilled personnel but they require expansion
and an improved scale of equipment to meet the needs of growing industry.
12.     Teaching staff for the vocational schools are deficient in numbers
and qualifications,   In 1964 the 26 schools referred to above had 1,000
teachers of whom nearly 450 were unqualified.   Most of the older teachers
are carpentry teachers who have received a conversion course to teach an
engineering subject.   The younger instructors have completed a teacher
training course immediately following their technical training.   Nearly
all instructors lack industrial experience, but the large differential
between Government salaries and those obtainable in commerce and industry
obstructs transfers into teaching.   A commission is examining Government
salaries and increases are anticipated which should attract skilled
craftsmen and qualified engineers to technical teaching.



13.     Technical teacher training facilities include a one-year course
at Bangkok Technical Instituite and a two-year course at Thewfes Vocational
Teacher College.   The former provides instruction in pedagogy only and
will be phased out later.   The Thewes course is to be increased to three
years to include a larger proportion of practical instruction to compensate
for the absence of training in industry.   Expansion of this college is
included in the project.
14.     Curricula are satisfactory with about 50 percent of the time given
to practical work, but general science teaching could be further strength-
ened.   Equipment is in short supply.   The schools have received additions
to their initial SEATO equipment through Government purchases and supplies
from U.S. AID but there are still too few machines and other equipment to
allow sufficient practical training.   Maintenance varies considerably,
inadequate budgetary allocation being made for this purpose and for the
purchase of materials for students' exercises.   As a result, schools
undertake production wlork to provide funds for students' exercises and
school maintenance which interferes with the instruction program.   The
Government has agreed to a considerable increase in the annual allocation
per student for teaching and workshop materials.   Textbooks are almost
absent.   The Government of Thailand appreciates that early steps should
be taken to correct this deficiency and a program to prepare suitable
texts is to'be initiated.
15.     Relations with industry are inadequate.   A Vocational Training
Committee, set up by the Cabinet in 1962, has, with one exception, only
Government officials and met only once in 1964.   The Government has
agreed to make the National Committee more effective and to include
employers in its membership.   The Government has also agreed to establish
local committees, representative of employers and appropriate Government
departments, to advise on the operation of each school.
16.     The Thai-German Technical School offers a variety of trade and
technician courses.   Applicants for 100 vacancies numbered 1,500 in
1964.   This school is well equipped, the quality of training is high
and graduates are in great demand.   The Dom Bosco School provides
similar courses for about 250 pupils.   A number of small private schools,
mostly in the Bangkok area, offer short courses in commercial subjects,
dressmaking, auto-mechanics and radio and television servicing.
17.     Post-secondary technical institutions include the Thewes Voca-
tional Teachers College and, for technician training, the technical
institutes at Bangkok, Chiergmai, Korat, Thonburi, Songkhla and Khonkaen.
Other Technical Training
18.     A vocational training center operated by the Ministry of the
Interior gives short courses for adults in auto-mechanics, general metal-
work, radio and carpentry.   A Management Development and Productivity
Center, assisted by ILO experts, is part of the Ministry of Industrial
Promotion.   Other Ministries and the armed services provide courses to
meet their particular needs.



19.     Apprenticeship training varies from the more sophisticated systems
of Western-style firms to traditional forms of apprenticeship in small
Chinese establishments.   For the former, employers sometimes recruit from
the upper vocational schools and provide "follow-..on" in-service training.
The latter system traditionally applies to relatives of the employers and
rarely involves attendance at a training institution.
Agricultural Schools
20.     The educational reforms of 1935 produced many agricultural schools
at primary and lower secondary levels.    In 1956 the primary level program
was discontinued.   Later, most of the lower secondary schools were either
closed or upgraded to upper vocational schools.   Nine of these latter are
now in operation, offering a three-year course to students from tlhe tenth
grade of general or vocational schools.   Applications are in excess of
the 1,900 available places.
21.     Teacher supply reflects two favorable conditions:  the recent pro-
gress of Kasetsart (agricultural) University, and a U.S. AID-aided program
to prepare qualified teachers through expert supervision, in-service train-
ing and study abroad.   Over 60 out of a total 200 agriculture teachers are
university graduates and 17 of them have U.S. post-graduate degrees.
However, further improvement in teacher training is essential.   Teaching
is still based primarily on lecturing and makes limited use of job analysis,
demonstrations, and student projects; 40 percent of the teachers in agri-
cultural schools are unqualified.
22.     The curriculum assigns one-third of the time to general subjects
(including language, social sciences, mathematics and science) and two-
thirds to vocational instruction.   The provision for general education
is well adapted to the demands of work in extension and other agricultural
services.   Practical training is included in the technical instruction
but needs to be strengthened, especially in farm shop work.
23.     Equipment and breeding stock are inadequate and so are provisions
for teaching and demonstration supplies.   Also lacking are laboratory
facilities for science teaching which is done almost exclusively by
lectures.   Textbooks in Thai are practically non-existent.   Emphasis on
English teaching alleviates this problem but the preparation of Thai
textbooks incorporating local subject matter is essential.   The staff in
the agricultural teacher training program is to undertake this task with
assistance from university specialists and the research and extension
services.
24.     The Maejo (Chiengmai) Agricultural School has a two-year, post-
secondary diploma course (grades 14-15) for graduates of the vocational
agriculture courses.   Similar courses are to be developed at Korat, Surin
and Ayuthaya to prepare middle-level officers in the Ministry of Agriculture,
farmers and managers of larger private farms and technicians for agri-
cultural industries.   A three-year course for agricultural teacher training
is offered at Bang-Pra to upper vocational agriculture school graduates.
The school has also a vocational section for practice teaching.



-6-
University Education
25.     Chulalongkorn, the first university, was established in 1916.
There are now four other universities in Bangkok, one at Chiengmai and
another at Khonkaen.   Another is under consideration for the South.   The
engineering faculty at Chulalongkorn has departments of civil, electrical
and mechanical engineering and the new Khonkaen University has just opened
its first year in engineering.   No other universities teach engineering,
although the country needs more graduates in these fields and it is
reported that hundreds of Thai students enroll every year in science and
engineering courses at foreign universities.
26.     The Kasetsart (agricultural) University, established in 1943, has
faculties in Agriculture, Forestry, Fishery, Irrigation Engineering,
Veterinary Science and Economics.   Khonkaen and Chiengmai Universities
are in the process of establishing agricultural faculties.
Financing of Education
27.     Since 1960, Thailand has allocated about 3.4 percent of GNP to
education - in 1964 us$ 120 million or US$ 4 per capita.   During the
same period, recurrent Government expenditure alone for education de-
creased from about 22 percent to 19 percent of the total Government
recurrent expenditures, while capital expenditure on education averaged
6.2 percent of total Government capital expenditure (Annex 8).   Because
of rapid population growth and rising costs, this rate of expenditure has
not been sufficient to raise enrollments as a percentage of the school-
age population or introduce much-needed improvements in the standards of
instruction.   Over the 1960-64 period, the Government has financed 79
percent of education expenditures from the national budget and 3 percent
from foreign assistance; municipalities have provided less than 1 percent
of educational outlays, and the private sector has provided the balance of
17 percent.   Primary education has absorbed 55 percent of public and
private funds, secondary and technical education 26 percent, universities
and teacher training 13 percent and Ministry overheads the balance of
6 percent.
28.     It is urgent that the level and effectiveness of public educational
investment should be raised.   A sizeable increase in educational outlays
is required to keep pace with the growth in the school age population even
without increasing the percentage of children in school.   In addition,
improvements in the quality of instruction are badly needed, particularly
in the vocational schools, the technical institutes and the universities.
The Government has undertaken to authorize annual increments of 10 percent
in budget outlays for education, in addition to the required domestic
counterpart for foreign financing of educational projects.   This expansion
will require extensive work in education planning and project preparation
over the next few years.   A planning unit recently set up in the
Education Ministry is doing valuable work in this field.



-7-
29.     In the 1964-66 National Development Plan, priority was given to
the improvement of vocational and general secondary education.   The pre-
paration of projects totalling about US $38 million is nearing completion.
According to the 1967-71 Development Plan, the level of total education
expenditure may be raised to some 03.9 billion a year by 1971, as against
an average of 41.7 billion during 1960-64 - an increase from 15.5 percent
to 17 percent of total government expenditure.
School Construction
30.     Design and construction of school buildings, except for university
facilities, are the responsibility of the Division of Design and Construction
which is part of the Vocational Education Department.   Assisting this
Division in preliminary design work are architects attached to the individ-
ual departments of the Ministry of Education.   Ministry architects must
provide the entire range of professional services - research, design,
preparation of working drawings and specifications, and supervision of
construction - for all Government as well as for a great number of private
schools.   The Division's budget is far too low for it to carry out its
responsibilities.   For 1964 this budget was a little over 01.6 million or
less than 1.0 percent of the cost of the school construction program of
the Government alone for that year.   The inadequacy of funds for
architectural services shows up in poorly designed and uneconomical school
buildings.   Furthermore, maintenance of buildings is often poor which
tends to shorten greatly the life-span of buildings and reduce their
efficiency but the Government has agreed to undertake satisfactory main-
tenance of buildings and equipment.
31.     Thailand has a numiber of experienced and responsible building
contracting firms, some of wrhich are branches of international firms.
However, because of the absence of a pre-qualification system, the open
bidding procedures generally employed sometimes result in the selection
of the lowest bidder without sufficient safeguards for performance and
quality.



-8-
III. NEED FOR THE PROJECT
32.       About 33 percent of Thailand's 30 million people are economically
active.  Of the estimated labor force of 11.3 million,in 1960 (people eleven
years old and over) about 15 percent were below 15 years or above 60 years
of age. The 1960 census shows about 2.4 million people employed outside the
agricultural sector.  Industry, including mining, construction and utilities,
employed some 600,000. The high- and middle-level manpower stock comprised
less than 200,000 workers classified in professional, technical, administra-
tive or managerial occupations. Almost half of the population aged ten or
more had received four years of formal education but barely 7 percent had gone
beyond grade 6. An estimated 150,000 had received a full secondary education
of whom some 27,000 had completed at least four years at university (Annex 9).
Manpower for Indust
33.       Thailand's rapidly changing industrial sector requires well-trained
workers in a variety of trades. Because of limited training facilities in
industry, employers are turning increasingly to the vocational schools for
production workers and for technicians. It was, for instance, reported that
Thai-German Trade School students can command wages equivalent to the start-
ing salary of a university graduate. The same applies to the better students
of the vocational schools. Discussions with employers emphasized the great
need for skilled personnel at the intermediate level.
34.       The trades and industries schools impart not only manual skills but
also technical knowledge in building construction, metal trades, auto mechanics,
electricity and radio. Hence, graduates of an upper secondary trade school may
become technicians or craftsmen, or continue their studies in a technical
institute.
35.       The 1960 census shows about 160,000 male craftsmen as production
process workers and laborers in building construction, woodworking, metal
trades, auto mechanics, electrical or radio trades, of whom probably some
8o,000 were skilled or semi-skilled. If productivity improvements are taken
into account, total employment in industry and services is estimated to grow
at about 5-6 percent a year. For skilled workers a slightly higher rate
(6-7 percent) is justified. The resulting annual demand for skilled workers
over the period 1960-1980 may be roughly estimated at about 20,000 (Annex 10).
36.       All skilled manpower involved in production work does not require
full secondary education; primary education coupled with training on the job
will produce some part of the manpower needed at this level. However, a mini-
mum estimate of the annual demand for institutionally-trained personnel is
approximately 2,600 (Annex 10), the proportion being higher in such modern
trades as electricity and electronics than in the traditional trades of car-
pentry or building construction.



-9-
37.       Trade school graduates are also recruited as technicians either for
direct engagement or after further training. The universities produce about
400 science and engineering graduates a year. It is generally accepted that
efficient manpower utilization requires a minimum of five technicians for each
engineering or science graduate. Thus, the annual demand is for at least
2,000 technicians, of whom perhaps half or more might be trade school graduates,
i.e., about 1,000.
38.       A conservative assessment of expansion needs for the trades schools,
combining the estimates of paragraphs 36 and 37 is given below. It neglects
the requirements for skilled workers in occupations not directly related to the
trade school curricula and ignores the demands of the armed forces for voca-
tional school students. It shows that expansion of the trades and industries
schools is justified by the increase in the estimated need for skilled manpower.
Estimated Annual Demand for Trade School Graduates, 1960-1980
For skilled occupations (para. 36)                           2,600
For technicians positions (para. 37)                         1,000
3,600
Annual out-turn of the existing trades schools (est.)        2,720
Additional requirements per year (est.)                        880
39.       The effectiveness of investments in vocational school facilities is
subject to many factors but substantial improvement should be achieved through
the improvements in procedures for selection of pupils, improved services for
placement of graduates and periodic review of curricula and a detailed man-
power development program, all of which have been agreed with the government.
Most important is closer liaison with industry and the improvement of stan-
dards of practical instruction so that needs of industry are met, employment
opportunities and the prestige of vocational training are maximized.
40.       The present scale of equipment and the average quality of the in-
structors in the trades and industries schools is insufficient to permit high
standards of tuition. Where 30 students in a class must share, say, six
lathes, the training time available to each is too short. The same is true
of the Thewes Technical Teacher T.raining College. Hence, the second economic
justification for the project lies in the need for increased capital invest-
ment for equipment at all the institutions in the project. With suitable
training equipment available on an adequate scale and with proper standards
of instruction, the quality of graduates will improve and therefore their
usefulness to industry. Improved employment prospects will, in turn, attract
larger numbers of applicants with the required qualifications.



-10-
Manpower for Agriculture
41.       At present, agricultural school graduates are needed mainly for
government service in the fields of agricultural research, extension, land
settlement and cooperatives. While a comprehensive plan for their develop-
ment has yet to be prepared, available evidence summarized below indicates
that these services can profitably employ large numbers of well-trained
middle-level technicians.
42.       Agricultural research is now conducted under several government
departments. Many promising projects are under way and some have already given
valuable results. / Ministry of Agriculture facilities used for research in-
clude many experimental stations, for rice and other crops, laboratories for
veterinary and livestock development research, fisheries stations, and forestry
research stations. The Royal Irrigation Department carries out investigations
on irrigation requirements and all six faculties of Kasetsart University carry
on research work. There is thus a strong basis for an expanded research pro-
gram to give technical support to extension and other farm services employing
mid-level agriculturists. Further, the research program will make a direct,
although limited, demand for middle-level agriculturists to fill positions of
farm managers, or foremen, and field assistants. It is estimated that employ-
ment of qualified government researchers will grow from the present stock of
some 250 specialists at an annual rate of about 5 percent and would generate
a requirement of about 50 supporting mid-level technicians per year.
43.       Effective channeling of the knowledge derived from research to
profitable use on the farm through extension services is essential to Thai-
land's economic progress. Recent progress in this field includes: (i) an
increase in the Ministry of Agriculture field extension agents from 170 in
1959 to 635 in 1964; (ii) the forming of farm organizations (farmers' and
farm youth clubs) which establish extension as a cooperative program of the
government and the farm population; (iii) the adoption of in-service training
for the extension agents; and (iv) efforts by the Ministry to establish a
unified direction of the extension program which now comes under several
departments. However, these efforts fall far short of economic needs. There
is now about one extension assistant or local extension agent for 6,000 farm
families. A reasonable goal would be to provide one extension assistant for
600 farm families by 1990. On the conservative assumption that employment in
agriculture will grow at a 1.5 percent annual rate over the period, about 750
new extension assistants, graduates of vocational schools, will be required
annually.
44.       Settlement schemes of the Departments of Land Cooperatives and of
Public Wblfare settled about 39,000 families in the past 20 years and the
same Departments expect to settle some 40,000 families in the period 1965-67.
1/ For example, experimentation on hybrid corn varieties carried out with
help from USAID and the Rockefeller Foundation was a major factor under-
lying the spectacu2ar growth of the maize crop from 27,000 metric tons in
1952 (O 29 million) to about 1,100,000 tons in 1964 (A 1,360 million).



-11-
It has been estimated that some seven million acres of new land will be brought
under cultivation in the next decade. The Public Wlfare Department employs
one farm adviser for 200 settler families and if this practice is followed,
some 50 agricultural school graduates will be required every year.
45.       There are some 10,000 farmers' cooperatives in the Thai villages.
They are mostly concerned with channeling credit to the members but commer-
cialization of agriculture is creating opportunities for stronger organiza-
tions to assist with farm production and marketing operations. This develop-
ment will depend to a high degree on the availability of qualified personnel
in the cooperative movement. The graduates of the vocational schools can
offer valuable service in this field; they may be employed at an estimated
rate of 50 annually.
46.       Agricultural progress will also create demand for such services as
distribution of farm machinery, fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, seedlings and
feeds. Graduates of agricultural schools will have suitable preparation for
such enterprises. The above occupations in the private sector may require
some 200 graduates annually. The course of the vocational schools contains
enough general education to enable the more capable students to pursue further
studies mostly in the agricultural faculties. It is estimated that some
15 percent of the graduates, or 200, will pursue further studies.
47.       The diploma course will up-grade extension assistants to the super-
visory positions of district extension agents. Some 110 graduates per year
can be absorbed, mainly in the positions of district extension agents and
through transfer to other agricultural services and to the private sector.
48.       Kasetsart University and the new agricultural faculties will be the
main source of teachers for the agricultural schools. However, the Bang-Pra
program is to train as teachers successful extension assistants who can bring
to the schools valuable field experience. Another purpose to be served by
this course is to train agriculture teachers for the comprehensive lower level
secondary schools being planned as part of the contemplated educational reform.
Teachers from Bang-Pra may thus be required in large numbers in the future, but
this will depend on cooperative efforts of the Departments of Vocational Educa-
tion and Teacher Training and, until such arrangements are completed, the demand
for agricultural teachers from Bang-Pra is conservatively estimated at 25
annually. There is urgent need for in-service training of agriculture teachers
and Bang-Pra should make this training an organic and important part of its pro-
gram.
49.       It was shown in paragraphs 42 to 48 above that some 1,300 graduates
of vocational agricultural schools and 110 graduates of the agricultural dip-
loma courses can be employed every year mostly in state agricultural develop-
ment programs. However, this will require strengthening the agricultural
services; coordination of research with Kasetsart and the other faculties of
agriculture which employ the majority of the country's agriculturists with
post-graduate degrees; establishment of strong departments of agricultural



-12-
education in each faculty able to conduct pre- and in-service training of
teachers and extension agents; employment of "extension subject matter
specialists" to link the research and extension programs and help with in-
service training of the agents; budget allocations to allow for the expan-
sion of the extension and research programs and for their efficient opera-
tion. Such a comprehensive plan for human resource development in agriculture
is of vital importance to the country, and the formulation of such a plan has
been agreed by the government.



-13-
IV. THE PROJECT
50.      The project as first presented by the Government provided for the
expansion of 26 trades and industries schools; nine agricultural vocational
schools and the institution of facilities for teacher training at four
technical institutes and one agricultural institute, together with costs of
foreign experts and fellowships for Thai officials. Appraisal of the
project established its feasibility after certain alterations designed to
adjust it to the country's teacher resources and to anticipated requirements
of qualified manpower. These alterations are acceptable to the Government
of Thailand.
Project Components and Costs
51.      The revised project now before the Bank is designed to meet the
urgent manpower needs of the economy at a total cost estimated as equivalent
to $21,000,000 (Annex 11). The total estimated foreign exchange component
is $10 million. The project comprises the following:
Percentage
Item                                Increased    Estimated     of project
No.   Description                  enrollment        US$      cost
Expansion and Equipment of:
1.   14 trades and industries
schools                        2,100      13,140,000       62
2.   1 vocational teacher college     270          800,000       4
(Thewes)
3.   10 agricultural schools        2,380        6,455,000      31
4.   1 agricultural teacher-
training center                   60          605,000       3
$21,000,000     100%
52.      A further breakdown of costs is shown in the following table:



-14-
Total Project Costs Including Foreign Currency Component
(In US$ equivalent)
Schools and Colleges
Trades                                      Estimated
Tech.    and          Agric.                          L.reign
Teacher   Industries  Teacher     Agric.   Total       Exchange
Training   Schools     Training   Schools    Cost      Component
Land           -          330,000    60,000       50,000      1o,-oo
Construction 2/305,000  7,675,000   420,000    5,290,000   13,690,000  3,900,000
Furniture      25,000     515,000    30,000      300,000      870,000    100,000
Equipment     470,000   4,620,000    95,0003     815,000-   6,000,000  6,000,000
TOTAL    800,000 13,140l000    605,000    6,455,000   21,000,000 10,000,000
1/ Including contingencies of approximately 15%.
2/ Including architects' fees.
il Includes livestock.
53.      The project cost of US$21,000,000 will be financed as follows:
(a)  Bank, for equipment only       $6,ooo,ooo
(b)  Government                     $15,000,000



-15-
General
54.     Schedules of accommodation, prepared for each project school, were
reviewed during appraisal and revised where necessary to give more economical
space standards. Essential farm buildings are provided for all agricultural
schools. In all cases, due regard was taken of existing buildings and their
use or adaptability for the needs of the expanded schools. Building cost
estimates including a contingency provision of 15 percent are based on recent
price trends and are considered reasonable.
55.     In addition to classrooms, laboratories, workshops and administration
buildings, the agricultural schools - being located far from towns - include
boarding facilities for all students and staff houses for all the teachers.
Boarding facilities and staff houses for trade and industries schools have
been kept to an absolute minimum but some provision is, however, essential
for 11 of the 14 schools, each of which serves one of the eleven educational
regions of Thailand, regions which are large in area, with dispersed populations
and with limited communications. No provision is made for boarding at the
Thewes Technical Teachers College or the two technical schools in Bangkok.
All dormitories and staff houses are of austere type and their costs
represent 15 percent and 8 percent respectively of the total project cost.
56.     Equipment requirements were reviewed and revised with regard to
economy and close reference to the instruction program. Audio-visual teaching
items and laboratory equipment are provided for all schools. Standard
equipment for workshops in the five trades is provided for all trades schools.
Agricultural schools are supplied with farm shop equipment, farm power and
transport, equipment for livestock enterprises (dairying, poultry, etc.),
and tools and implements for field and horticultural crops. Breeding stock
is also provided for these schools. Provision for freight and insurance
have been included in the equipment costs and a contingency item of 15 percent
has been added to cover price increases which have averaged about 5 percent
per annum. Equipment cost estimates are considered reasonable.
57.     Technical assistance, to be supplied to the Government by US AID, for
the teacher training programs should enable them to produce the additional
teachers required for the proposed expansion, to upgrade in-service teachers
of the vocational program and to produce an important improvement in the
quality of the instruction. Six specialists will cover the trades taught in
the trades and industries schools. Five agricultural specialists will cover
teaching of animal production, plant production, agricultural engineering,
farm management and cooperatives, and extension teaching in agriculture. All
specialists will serve for a five-year period. Two counterparts of each
expatriate specialist will receive on-the-job training supplemented by one
year study abroad under USAID auspices.
Trades and Industries Schools
58.     The 14 trades and industries schools of the project are well dis-
tributed over the country, one being located in each of the 11 educational
regions, and three in Region No. 1 - the Bangkok area. One trade school
provided with dormitories should meet education and employers' needs in each



-16-
of the 11 regions. For the Bangkok area, where industry is more concentrated
and development is faster, three schools are included, two of which, North
Bangkok and Prathunmwan, are much larger than those in other regions (Annex 12).
59.     Schools will offer five courses: auto mechanics, building construction,
machine shop, metalwork, electrician's work and radio/television servicing.
The last two trades are combined; more comprehensive training and wider job
opportunities for students should result.
60.     The project will increase enrollment by 2,100 students and annual
output by 900 (Annex 12). This latter figure conforms to the estimate shown
at paragraph 38 above. Furthermore, the better teachers and equipment will
result in better training for all the 7,000 students in these schools and
provide some 2,100 well-trained youths every year who should have no difficulty
in finding appropriate employment. Regarding availability of students, the
excess of applicants in the past indicates that there should be no shortage
of qualified students for the increased number of places.
61.     The operation of the trades and industries schools in the project
requires training some 300 additional technical teachers (Annex 13), or about
100 teachers in each of the three years needed for the completion of the
project. To this requirement should be added about 100 per year for replace-
ments among the Department staff. To meet these needs economically on a
long-term basis, the project establishes Thewes College as the national
institution for technical teacher training, offering a three-year course and
addressed to either new recruits or unqualified teachers in the service. The
long-term training is necessary as long as the college is unable to recruit
students with industrial experience. When these can be attracted into
teaching, vocational teacher training courses can be shortened to one year
through reduction of shop work, and so increase the trained teacher output.
62.     There will be six three-year courses, one for each trade taught at the
trades and industries schools, with 25 students in each class. A one-year
course to prepare university and technical institute graduates for work in
trade schools and technical institutes will also be offered, raising output
to about 250 per annum. After the immediate needs of the project schools
have been met, increased provision of courses for the unqualified 2,250 teacher,
in service will be included in the teacher training program.
Agricultural Schools
63.     The ten agricultural schools of the project are well distributed
among the regions with different natural and social conditions and varying
patterns of farming. This will make possible adaptation of the courses to
the conditions in which prospective agriculturists are likely to work. The
facilities to be provided will enable these schools to increase enrollment from
1,900 to 4,100 for a total output of 1,250 mid-level agriculturists every
year, which compares with the estimated need of 1300 shown in paragraph 49
above. The diploma course included in the program of four agricultural schools
will enroll a total of 240 trainees for an annual output of 110 agricultural
technologists. No further expansion of these types of training is contemplated
for the immediate future and the proposed number of graduates should be easily
absorbed by the public services and the private sector (Chapter III).



-17-
64.      The teacher training program included in the project will give a
three-year course at Bang-Pra College to graduates of vocational agriculture
schools who have worked successfully as extension workers. The 25 teachers
thus trained annually will bring valuable experience to the agricultural school
Teachers in service will also learn to use modern teaching methods based on
projects and demonstrations so as to prepare the students to meet actual
life situations intelligently. The provisions for equipment and the
agricultural engineering specialist included in the technical assistance
team should make possible effective farm shop training to enable the students
to use modern equipment in private farming or in farm demonstration work.
Administration
65.      The implementation of the project will impose additional burdens
on the Ministry. The project therefore provides for one educational adviser
and two equipment specialists to assist the Project Director. The general
adviser would be required for about three years and the equipment specialists
for about two years. These advisers are to be supplied to the Government
by USAID.
66.      For handling procurement under the project, the Ministry of Education
has established a central purchasing organization, responsible for preparing
specifications, bulc buying and distribution of equipment, so as to produce
economies in the implementation of the project and also in Mlinistry buying
for all fields of education.
67.      Contracts for procurement of equipment and livestock will be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the
procedures outlined in the "Guidelines relating to Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Creditsll.
Architectural Services
68.      Since the Ministry of Education has a shortage of architects, the
project provides for employment by the Ministry of a firm of architects with
experience in school buildings for a survey of existing structures, design
and supervision of procurement procedures and construction and for super-
vision of the project until its completion. A firm has been selected and
a draft agreement is under discussion between the Government of Thailand and
the consultants. The architects' fee is expected to be about 5.2 percent
of construction costs or about $540,000.
Financial Implications
69.      It is estimated that the annual recurrent costs generated by the
project will amount to some 019 million by 1971. Since government recurrent
expenditures on education are likely to increase from 91.9 billion as
provided in the 1966 budget to a planned figure of some f3.3 billion by 1971,
the project will represent about 1.4 percent of the difference. The total
financial requirements resulting from the project to be met by the government
will not exceed 4.3 percent of the estimated total government expenditure
on education in any one of the years 1967-71 (Annex 14).  It is further



- i -
estimated that total expenditure on education in 1971 of 03.9 billion
including this oroject and all other developments will be not more than
17 percent of -otal government expenditure, which is well within the capacity
of the governmnnt to meet.'



-19-
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECODMENDATIONS
70.      Thailand needs to train skilled personnel for its expanding industry
and for modernizing agriculture. The project will help to meet this need at
an estimated cost equivalent to $21 million.
Trades and Industries Schools
71.      Training in modern trades through traditional apprenticeship is
inadequate and industry has not developed programs for systematic in-service
training. Therefore, the trades and industries schools must play a major
role in this training (pares. 19, 33).
72.      To meet the needs of industry, more well-trained workers in a
variety of trades are required. The schools need more equipment and higher
standards of instruction to meet this need (paras. 33, 40).
73.      Applications for the trades and industries schools already exceed
the available places. Improvement in the facilities and the training
program of the schools will attract larger numbers of applicants with the
required qualifications and result in better employment opportunities for
the graduates (paras. 40, 60).
74.      The proposal to expand and improve facilities at 14 schools for
7,000 students and raise output by about 900 annually should meet estimated
manpower needs (paras. 36-38).
75.      Shortage of qualified teachers is a serious handicap to the
effectiveness of the schools. The project supports a national institution
for technical teacher training at Thewes through expanded facilities. The
college will have a total enrollment of 550 and train 250 teachers each year
(paras. 12, 61).
Agricultural Schools
76.      Thailand needs to support its agricultural industry with efficient
programs for research, extension work, farm settlements, cooperatives and
farm credit. Mid-level technicians play useful roles in these programs and
can further contribute to agricultural development as progressive farmers in
their villages (paras. 42-47).
77.      The proposed enrollment of 4,100 and annual output of 1,250 middle-
level agriculturists would meet confirmed requirements of the public services,
private farming and farm service enterprises (para. 63).
78.      The large numbers of applicants in the past suggest that there
should be no difficulty in securing candidates for the vocational agricultural
schools in numbers permitting selection of entrants with desirable qualifi-
cations (para. 20).
79.      The project gives special attention to needed improvement in
agricultural teacher training by expanding the facilities at Bang-Pra College.
In-service teacher training is also important (paras. 48, 64).



-20-
Buildings and Equipment
80.      The schedule of accommodations and the equipment lists proposed
are economical and appropriate for their functions. Estimated costs are
reasonable and realistic (paras. 54-56).
Recurrent expenditure
81.      Recurrent expenses of about W19 million would be less than 2 percent
of the expected increase in recurrent educational costs by 1971. The total
estimated educational expenditure in 1971 of 93.9 billion would be 17 percent
of total government expenditure and is well within the capacity of the
government to meet (para. 69).
Recommendations
82.      The Bank has reached satisfactory understandings with the Thai
Government on the need for, and procedures to ensure, action along the
following lines:
(1) Measures that will enable the Department of Vocational
Education to recruit capable teachers and principals,
preferably with practical experience, for the schools as
well as supervisors and administrators for Ministry head-
quarters (para. 12).
(2) A human resources development program closely coordinated
with economic and educational planning and including an
intensive program to develop the country's agricultural
services (paras. 39 and 49).
(3) Strengthening and broadening the central vocational education
advisory committee by including representatives of private
industry and agencies employing the products of the
vocationrl schools and setting up similar committees for
each training institution (para. 15).
(4) Providing in-service training for teachers of the vocational
schools as an organic, continuing program of the divisions
concerned. In agriculture, this program needs further to
be closely coordinated with Kasetsart University and later
with the agricultural faculties of provincial universities
(paras. 48 and 62).
(6) Provisions in the educational reforms contemplated by the
Mlinistry of Education for aptitude tests, vocational guidance
and placement services to assist in the selection of suitable
students for the vocational schools and their subsequent
employment (para. 39).



-21-
(7) Formation of an organization to prepare textbooks in Thai
for technical subjects and arrangements for cooperation of
the Agricultural Teacher Training College with IKasetsart
University in the preparation of textbooks and teaching aids
for agriculture (paras. 14 and 23).
83.      The project forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan of Us$6 million
to meet the equipment and livestock costs which, it is proposed, should be
repayable over a period of 30 years with a grace period of 10 years. The
remainder of the costs will be contributed by the Thai Government.
September 19, 1966



THAILAND: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF EDUCATION
|   EDUCATION               |                                         OFFICE OF THE                       |                                         NATIONAL
PLANNING OFFICE                                                           UNDERSECRETARY                                                          EDUCATION COUNCIL
(See    Note)
DEPARTMENT OF                  DEPARTMENT OF                 DEPARTMENT OF                  DEPARTMENT OF
ELEMENTARY AND                     SECONDARY                       TEACHER                      VOCATIONAL
ADULT EDUCATION                    EDUCATION                       TRAINING                     EDUCATION                        rn
z                                               U)
z                      O
Divisions:                     Divisions:                    Divisions:                     Divisions:                            I                       C                                               u
Li                      0                      I 
Office of Secretary            Office of Secretory           Office of Secretary            Office of Secretary                 1Xa
-J                                 4~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Elementary Educotion           Finonce                       College of Education           Trode Schools                       Z                                              u                       (_
2 ~~~~~C)La-7
Special Education              Government Schools            Child Study Institute          Commercial ond                      r i                                            L                       LiO
Industrial Schools                                          0.                      0
o3                      U.                     t-                      Li.
Adult Education                Private Schools               Teacher Educotion              Agricultural Schools                w                       0                      1                       0
UL                      t                      Li                      t-
0                       z                                              2 
Supervision                    Pre-University Grades         In-Service Training            Technicol Institutes                1                                              ti                      w
2
Promotion ond                  Supervision                   Promotion and                       I-                      4                       i                      4
Evaluction                                                   Follow - Up     -                   ir 
Supervision                                                  Design and Construction             0.                                                                     0
Supervision
NOTE: The universities are under the supervision of the Prime Minister's office. Coordination of policy for higher education is ochieved through the National Education Council.
The Prime Minister is Chairman of the Council; the Minister of Education is Chairman of the Council's Executive Boord.
IERD- 2541



THAILAND EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
SUMMARY FLOW DIAGRAM
7     8    9    10      I1    12   13      14    15   16       17   18       19
IE dSTANDARD AGES
T E A C H E R     TRAINING
Lower                      Higher
Certificate                Certificate
B.Ed.
l                    ~~~~~~~(COLLEGE OF EDUCATION)
PRIMARY SCHOOLS               SECONDARY SCHOOLS (GENERAL)                        UNIVERSITY
Junior                Senior             Lower            Uppe r
B. A.
B.Sc.
* This level being phosed out.
*Thi leel eingphaed ut.SECONDARY SCHOOLS (VOCATIONAL)                             TECHNICAL
Lower*               Upper
0   Pre-university government examination.
9 mO t< I n| } ~~~~~~~~DIPLOMA
 Competitive entrance examinotion.
D Terminal grade or year.
Terminal grade or year.                         ~~~VOCATIONAL TEACHER TRAINING
Additional year for students coming   .Lwr|Hge
from general secondary schools.                                                                        CERTIFICATE
IBRD- 2542  1S



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILMND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollment Statistics
A. Total Enrollment (public and private schools)
- ------------------- in l,OOOs -------------------
1959      1960     1961      1962      1963
Pre-primary               39.6      39.1      45.6     52.1      56.2
Primary (general)
Junior (1-4)         3,437.8   3,569.5   3,717.0  3,804.l   3,905.1
Senior (5-7)           347.0     365.8     376.0     376.4    386.6
39784.8   3935.3    4.,093.0  4,180.5  h,291.7
Secondary (general)
Lower (8-10)           189.4     211.9     236.3     254.9    261.8
Upper (11-12)           22.3      26.0      34.5      39.8     41.2
211.7     237.9    270.8     294.7     303.0
Vocational and technical-/
Primary level (5-7)      6.7       2.4        .7       .3         -
Lower secondary (8-10)  24.6      23.0      16.9      10.6      6.4
Upper secondary (11-13) 29.3      29.4      30.0      26.8     28.3
Technical level (14-15)  4.7       5.3       5.5      5.8       5.5
65.3      60.1    53.1      173       40.2
Teacher training
Lower secondary (8-10)     -         -       0.2       0.2        -
Upper secondary (11-12) 11.3      11.3      11.1      11.5     11.9
Higher  (13-16)          h44       5.9       4.7      4.9       5.2
15.77     17.2    7170       16e6      17.1
UniversitiesE/
Grades 13-14             9.4       9.8      10.0     10.9      11.0
Grades 15-16             6.8       7.0       7.2       7.8      7.9
Graduate level           1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0
17.2     T17T      i1i:      19.7      19.9
See footnotes on page 2.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
---------------                   ----- in l,OOO- ----
1959      1960      1961       1962      1963
Fine arts and dramatic art
Grades 8-15                0.8       0.8       0.9        1.1       1.2
TOTAL                    4,135.1   4,308.2   4,497.6    4,608.2   4,729.3
Vocational short courses     0.4       1.9        1.9       4.1       4.9
University part-tine
studerts                31.1      23.9      25.6       25.4      24.7
Source: Educational Statistics, Department of Educational Techniques,
Ministry of Education (various issues
1/ Includiig kiile arts and dramatic arts students anq vocational teacher
trainiig as folloWsg    --                    - ----in-1,0 009 ;-'---
1959      1960       1961     162       1963
Elementary teacher
certific4te (11-13) 0.8        0.9       0.7        0X5       0.4
Secondary teacher
certificate (14-15) 0.5        0.5       o.6        0',7      0.7
3Tiy   __74       1.3        lw2       1.1
2/ Full-time students only.    Estimate based on information provided by
the National Education Council and the Joint Thai-USOM Task Force
Report (November i963)



ANNEX 3
Page 3
B.  Enrollment in _rivate Schools
-------------- in l,OOOs --         --------
1959      1960      1961       1962      1963
Pre-primary                 17.9      14.8      22.7      29.2      34.1
(as % of total)        (45.2)     (37e9)    (49.8)    (56.0)    (60.1)
Primary
Junior (1-4)             304.4     321.9     328.6     340.6     350.1
Senior (5-7)             168,1     176.2     181.4     183.0     183.5
47-2.5    797i       510.0     523.6     533.6
(as % of total)        (12.4)     (12.7)    (12.4)    (12.5)    (12.4)
Secondary
Lower (8-10)             100.7     111.9     122.6     127.6     123.9
Upper (11-12)              9.5      11.5      19,2      22.9      22.6
110.2     123.4      1505        7       1560
(as % of total)        (52.0)     (51.8)    (52.1)    (51,0)    (48.4)
TOTAL                      582.7     621.5     651o8     674.1     680.1
As % of total enroll-
ment in pre-primary,
primary and secondary
(general) schools    (14.5)     (14.7)    (14.8)    (14.8)    (14.6)
Source: Educational Statist5ics Department of Educational Techniques,
Ministry of Education (various issues),



C.  Enrollment in ffhiversitpes (1964)
Years
5 and
1       2       3       4      Above   Total
Agriculture arg d related
subjects:-/
Agriculture and animal
husbandry              .344     265     212     195     193   1,209
Agricultural economics    108      89      86      74      69      426
Forestry                   70      56      54      44      57      281
Fisheries                  35      25      23      25      19     127
Veterinary studies         21      21      29      26       -       97
Irrigation engineering     47      38      41      44      40     210
Total                       625     494     445     408     378    2,350
Science, engineering and
architecture-/
Science                   541     262     222     163     186   1,374
Engineering               431     352     323     295      88   1,489
Architecture              100      92     117     107     105     521
Total                     1,072     706     662     565     379    3,384
Other subjects (in
various universities)
Education                 982     784   1,767   1,411     160   5,104
Medicine and health       945     897     715     497     323   3,377
Humanities, social
sciences and business
administration       1,690    3,769   6,823  12,66e   2,039  26,989
Art subjects              290     246     286     233      35   1,090
Total                     3,907   5,696   9,591  14,809   2,557  36,560
GRAND TOTAL               5,604   6,896  10,698  15,782   3,314   42,294
1/  Kasetsart University, except for 50 students enrolled in first year
at Khonkaen University (agriculture and animal husbandry).
2/  Chulalongkorn University, except for 150 students in Thai architecture
enrolled at Silpekorn University, 146 students in science enrolled at
Chiengmai University and 59 students in engineering enrolled at
Khonkaen University.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
D. University Graduates in Selected Fields (as of 1963)
Agriculture and related subjects v/
Agriculture, animal husbandry and agricultural economics      1,057
Forestry                                                        254
Fisheries                                                        71
Irrigation engineering                                          138
Subtotal                                    1,520
Engineering -/
Civil                                                         1,073
Electrical                                                      660
Mechanical and aeronautical                                     457
Mining                                                          168
Industrial                                                      113
Other                                                            74
Subtotal                                    2,545
All other                                                      31,487
GRAID TOTAL                                                    35,552
1/ About half of the graduates hold diplomas and the other half hold
bachelor degrees from Kasetsart University.
2/ Mostly Bachelors of Science in Engineering from Chulalongkorn
University.



THAILAND: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, ENROLLMENT IN 1963
SECONDARY AND HIGHER LEVEL-GENERAL, VOCATIONAL AND TEACHER TRAINING STREAMS
(IN THOUSANDS)
UNIVERSITY     -a POST-SECONDARY     m     TEACHER         GENERAL            VOCATIONAL
UNIVERSITYTECHNICAL              VLZJTRAINING           SECONDARY         SECONDARY
GRADE
1.0 (Graduate students)
16      3.7
15     i5.9
14         9.3
13                    16.9'
12                  27.6
l  k<   X   ;   -;  -   W  S   45   5   ...........................................  ..7 7 7 - 7 7  ...........   ......
JO E.                                                                                    834
9                                                                                         . 873
8                                                                                                   : 97.4
0                   20                  40                  60                  80                  100
IBRD- 2539



THAILAND: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, ENROLLMENT IN 1963
(IN THOUSANDS)
SCHOOLS>      CENTRAL GOVERNMENT       MUNICIPAL        PRIVATE                                    POPULATION
BY AGE GROUP
GRADE                                                                                       (IN THOUSANDS)
1.0  (Graduate students)
16  3.7                                                                                        450
I      1 5  5.9                                                                                       480
1 4  9.3                                                                                       510
3   16.9                                                                                      540
1 2   27.6                                                                                     560
Id
a. 0  I 1   45.559
0      10     83.4                       .                                                            600
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~~~3
Cf) | r  9       87.3                                                                                 630
0
O.1  8     97.4                                                                                   660
lt:  7    1t,07.0                                                                             690
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
(I,I
5  ID0.10                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~750
4                                                                                             780
f 3                                             l                                               li a s681 1 1 820
z   2     .           8              gffl                          969.1                          850
1,339.8 890
o   200     400   .      600         800         1,000        1,200       1,400
NOTE: The upper secondary level of the vocational stream  includes grade 13.
I BRD- 2540 



ANNEX 5
THAILA'ND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Enrollments in Upper Secondary Vocational Schools (1963)
Grade 11    Grade 12     Grade 13    Total
Agricultural schools                    1,009         567         324       1,900
Carpentry schools                       1,238       1,014       1,139      3,441
Trades and Industries schools           3,707       2,302       2,719      9,223
of which:
Building construction              1,087         804         740      2,631
Automechanics and diesel             689         479         495      1,663
Machine shop                       1,000         771         761      2,532
iJelding and metal work              365         263         231        914
Electricity                          233         229         273        740
Radio                                333         251         164        743
Other trades and crafts for boys          771         377         260      1,408
Home economics and other crafts
for girls          2,188      2,172       2,286       6,646
Business, secretarial and language      2,105       1,531       1,259      4,895
schools
Total        11,063      37463       2,987      27,518
Source: Educational Statistics, Department of Educational Techniques (1963)



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Budgetary Allocations to the Department of Vocational Education
(In $'000)
I.   BY DIVISION
1960       1961        1962        1963        1964        1965
Trades Schools (including carpentry schools)     39,197     31,257      50,297      55,247      49,580       55,544
Business and Industrial Schools                  23,323     16,055      23,351      22,345      35,100      35,856
Building and Construction Schools                   516        396         639         894       1,088          865
63,036     47,708      74,287      78,h86      85,768      92,265
Technical InstituteslJ                           13,7h4      9,688      16,187      20,857      25,249       32,1143
76,780     57,396      90,474      99,343     111,017     124,408
Agricultural Schools                             11,110      9,201      14,224      16,666      18,237      25,233
87,890     66,597     104,698     116,009     129,254     149,641
Administrative Overheady                          2,097      3,173       5,284       5,547       6,550        7,223
TOTAL                                       89,987     69,770     109,982     121,556     135,804     156,864
iJ Including pre-service vocational teacher training
j/ Including in-service teacher training and vocational short-courses



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(In $'000)
II. BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURES
1960       1961        1962        1963        1964        1965
Current Expenditures (excluding scholarships)
Wtages, salaries and personnel benefits     67,592     52,855      75,457      79,694       83,010     91,707
Materials and supplies                       1,135        958       2,075        2,872       4,829     11,407
Other current expenses                       1,214      1,221       1,769       2,390       3,676       5,o47
Total current                          69,941     55,034      79,301      84,956      91,515     108,161
Capital Expenditures
Sites and buildings                         10,586      7,720      16,107      20,230      30,546      26,908
Equipment                                    2,244      1,917       7,171       9,972       9,818      18,507
Total capital                          12,830      9,637      23,278      30,202      40,364      45,415
Total capital and current                        82,771     64,671     102,579     115,158     131,879     153,576
Scholarships                                      7,216      5,099       7,403       6,398       3,925       3,288
TOTAL                                            89,987     69,770     109,982     121,556     135,804     156,864
Source: Ministry of Education



Organization Chart of
Department of Vocational Education
(Ministry of Education)
|Office of the Director-Generall
I                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I        1'              1       ~        ~~                  ~ I  I               __
iSecretarial, '      Trade        $Technical         Commercial & i     ;Agricultural ;      Vocational       ;School
'Financial           Schools       Institutes        Industrial         ISchools             Promotion        'Design
#Section              (151)   |        (7)           Schools            |     (9) 
,        ~I                                  I                   I                      . 
;-Correspondence     -Boys' Schools                  -Schools           I-Schools            -Counselling      -Administration
jTesting &
_-Finance                                           I                                          Surveying     ),-Planning
i                   !-Girls' Schools                 -In-service         -Agric. Aids       I                 I
-Examinations                                          training                            i-Placement,      i-Construction &
Apprenticeship     Supervision
I-Inspection                                                                                  & on-the-job
training
i-Statistics &
I Records
i-Registration &
Certification
Note: Figures between brackets refer to numbers of institutions.



THAILAND: 1960-1964 EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
in billion baht)
1960/61      1961/62      1962/63      1963/64
Total Government current expenditure on education        1.41         1.44        1h52          1.64
Total Government current expenditure                     6.49         6.96         7.89         8.64
Current educ ation expenditure as a percentage of
total government current expenditure                  21.8%        20.7%        19.3%        19.0%
Total government capital expenditure on education        0.17         0.16         0.25         0.33
Total government capital expenditure                     2.76         3.46         3.97         4.46
Capital education expenditure as a percentage of
total government capital expenditure                   6.1%         4.6%         6.3%         7.4%
Total government expenditure on education                1.58         1.60         1.77         1.97
Total government expenditure                             9z25        10.42        11.86        13.10
Total government expenditure on education as a
percentage of total government expenditure            17.1%        15.3%        14.9%        15.0%
Source: IBRD No. FE-53b - The current economic position and prospects of Thailand,
May 19, 1966.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
THAILAND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Manpower Statistics (1960)
A. Distribution of Employment by Economic Sector
Male        Female      Total
(100)        ('000)    (7000)
Agriculture, forestry, hunting, fishing  5,57h.9     3,259.1    8,834.0
Mining and quarrying                       22.1          7.4       29.5
Manufacturing                             293.2        176.9      470.1
of which:
Food, beverages and tobacco              84.4         41.2      125.6
Textiles, wearing apparel and footwear   43.0         93.1      136.1
Wood, paper and printing                  85.4        18.4      103.8
Leather and rubber                        4.4          1.8        6.2
Oils, soap, drugs and chemicals           3.5          3.8        7.3
Clay products, china and glass           16.0         10.3       26.3
Metal products, machinery                17.7          2.6       20.3
Electrical machinery and appliances       2.1           .7        2.8
Manufacture & repair of transport equip-
ment                                   25.1          1.0       26.1
Watches and jewellery                     8.8          1.7       10.5
Other                                     2.8          2.3        5.1
Construction, repair and demolition        62.3          6.3       68.6
Public Utilities                           14, 7          .8       15.5
Commerce                                  362.9        416.4      779.3
Transport, storage, communication         156.5          9.1      165.6
Services                                  457.6        196.6      65L.2
of which:
Public Adninistration                   24h.8         15.9      260.7
Educational, religious                   96.1         46.1      142.2
Medical, health, welfare                 12.2         10.9       23.1
Legal and trade associations              4.1          o.6        h.7
Recreation                               12.9          4.7       17.6
Domestic services                        10.6         46.5       57.1
Hotels, restaurants                      46.3         45.3       91.6
Other                                    30.6         26.6       57.2
Not adequately described or unknown       147.8         85.9      233.7
TOTAL      7,092.0      4,158.5  11,250.5
Source: 1960 Population Census
Note: The above statistics relate to employed persons 11 years and over.
An adjustment in the number of unpaid female family workers in
agriculture (believed to be overstated in the census) has been included.



B. Distribution of Employment by Occupations
MALE                 FEMALE             TOTAL
('000)                (1000)             (o000)
Professional, technical & related workers                           114.8                58.9               173.7
of which:
Teachers adid instructors                                87.7               44.0              131.7
Engineers, architects, chemists & scientists              1.0                 .1                1i.L
Science and engineering technicians                       2.2                 .1                2.3
Physicians, dentists, pharrmacists, veterinarians         3.0                1.1                4.1
Nurses, medical technicians & workers                     7.1                8.7               15.8
Artists, writers and related                              9.6                4.1               13.7
Jurists, judges and related                               2.1                  -                2.1
Others                                                    2.1                 .8                2.9
Administrative, executive & managerial workers                       23.6                 2.5                26.1
Clerical workers                                                    133.4                20.5                153.9
Sales workers                                                       325.0               410.0                735.0
Farmers, fishermen, forestry workers                              5,573.4             3,258.6              8,832.0
Miners, quarrymen and related workers                                19.3                 6.9                 26.2
Workers in transport & communications                                137.9                6.4                144.3
Craftsmen, production process workers, laborers                      538.7               265.8               8o4.5
of which:
Metal making workers, toolmakers, machinists,
welders, plumbers, platers                               52.1                2.6                54.7           *
Electrical and electronics workers                       11.0                 -                 11.0            \ s
Carpenters, woodworkers, cabinet makers                  75.6                2.4                78.0
Other construction workers                               21.8                2.7               2h.5
Spinners, knitters, tailors & leather cutters            35.9               79.0               114.9



MALE               FEMALE                TOTAL
Jewellers, watchmakers & related                          8.9                1.8              10.7
Pottery, glass and ceramics                              11.8               9.2               21.0
Basket weaving and related                               13.2              22.5               35.7
Printing and bookbinding                                  6.0               2.6                8.6
Food, tobacao a'nd beverage workers                      3909               31.7               71.6
Packers, fr6eight,handlers and stationary
engine  operators                                      13.9               2.7               16.6
Other craftsmen & production process workers              7.5               8.1               15.6
Other laborers                                          241.1             100.5              341.6
Service, sport & recreation workers                                 152.1               120.8              272.9
Other                                                                73.8                8.1                81.9
TOTAL                                          7,092.0            4,158.5             11,250.5
Source: 1960 Population Census (See note page 1)
CD 
xo~



ANNEX 9
Page 4
C. Distribution of Government Employment (including public enterprises)
1. By Occupation
Male       Female      Total
(1000)      ('000)     ('000)
Professional, technical & related           88.9         39.9      128.8
Administrative, executive and managerial     8.3           .4        8.7
Clerical workers                           108.0          14.7     122.7
Sales workers                                 .7           .2         .9
Farmers, fishermen & forestry workers        2.6           .3        2.9
Miners, quarrymen & related workers           .4           .1         .5
Workers in transport & communication        20.8            .5      21.3
Craftsmen, production process workers &
laborers                                  67.7          7.1       74.8
Service, sport and recreation workers       59.7          2.2       61.9
Other                                       66.3          0.7       67.0
Total           423.4         66.1      489c5
2. By Econoiic Sectcr
Agriculture, forestry, fishing               2.5           .3        2.8
Mining and quarrying                        05             -         .5
Manufacturing                                8.6          2.9       11.5
Construction                                22.9          2.1       25.0
Utilities                                   11.3           .6       11.9
Commerce                                     1.9           .6        2.5
Transport and communication                 37.0          2.0       39.0
Services                                   337.8         57.5      395.3
(of which public administration)          (245.1)       (12.9)    (258.0)
Other                                         .9           .1        1.0
Total          423.4         66.1      489.5
Source: 1960 Population Census (See note on page 1.)



ANNEX 9
Page 5
D. Educational Attainment of Population
Number completed              Population   (1) as %
radegshowa   1                e group (2    of 2)_
'1000)(0) 
Primary
Grade 1 and above             12,964.7   Age 7 & above   20,304.6     63.8
Grade 2 and above             11,961.9   Age 8 & above   19,481.3     61.4
Grade 3 and above             10,449.8   Age 9 & above   18,715.9      55.8
Grade 4 and above              8,786.6   Age 10 & above  18,026.4     48.7
Grade 5 and above              1,416.0   Age 11 & above  17,311.0       8.2
Grade 6 and above              1,204.8   Age 12 & above  16,687.2       7.2
Grade 7 and above                993.5   Age 13 & above  16,047.7      6.2
Secondary
Grade 8 and above                731.1   Age 14 & above  15,459.5      4.7
Grade 9 and above                593.3   Age 15 & above  14,938.2      4.0
Grade 10 and above               481.4   Age 16 & above  14,434.3       3.3
Grade 11 and above               205.2   Age 17 & above  13,919.4       1.5
Grade 12 or equivalent & above   148c3   Age 18 & above  13,454.0      1.1
Higher
One year and above                95.1   Age 19 & above  12,901.1        .7
2 years and above                 49.6   Age 20 & above  12,439.2       .4
3 years and above                 42.6   Age 21 & above  11,926.3       .4
4 years and above                 27.0   Age 22 & above  11,44.2         .2
5 years and above                 10.4   Age 23 & above  10,948.0        .1
Graduate degree                    3.6   Age 24 & above  10,485.7         -
1/ Excluding an estimated 61,000 having received formal religious
instruction and an estimated 149,000 having followed pre-primary formal
education only.
Source: 1960 Population Census



ANNEX 10
THAILAND - DEMAND FOR SKILLED WORKERS, 1960 - 1980
Building    Metal Trades  Electricity
Construction,     and           and
Wood Trades    Mechanics   Electronics   Total
a. Skilled Workers:
1960 Stock (est.)       33,000        39,000       8,000      80,000
1980 Stock             106,000       151,000      31,000     288,000
b. Average Annual Demand
For replacement 1/       3,500         4,800       1,000       9,300
For expansion   r        3,700         5,600       1,100      10,400
c. Total Skilled Workers
Required Annually        7,200        10,400       2,100      19,700
d. Estimated Percentage
Requiring Secondary
Education                   5%           15%         30%         13%
e. Resulting Annual Demand
for Trade School
Graduates                  400         1,600         600       2,600
1/ Estimated to be -equal to 5% of the average stock during this period.
2/ 5% of the required stock increase over the twenty-year period.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
THAILAND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Total Project Costs including Foreign Currency Component
(In US$ Equivalent)
A. SUMMARY
1. Schools and Colleges
Estimated
Tech.   Trades and    Agric.                           Foreign
Teacher Industries     Teacher    Agric.     Total     Exchange
Training   Schools    Training    Schools     Cost      Component
Land                -        330,000   60,000     50,000     44Oo000         -
2/
Construction    305,000    7,675,000  420,000  5,290,000  13,690,000   3,900,000
Furniture         25,000     515,000   30,000    300,000     870,000      100,000
3/         3/
Equipment       470,000    4,620,000   95,000    815,000   6,000oo0o0  6,000,000
TOTAL    800,000  13,140,000   605,000  6,055,ooo  21,000,000  10,000,000
1/ Including contingencies of approx. 15%.
2/ Including architects' fees.
3/ Includes livestock.



ANNEX f1
Page 2
B. COST ESTIMATES FOR TRADES AND INDUSTRIES SCHOOLS
AND TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
(In US$ Equivalent)
* /
Institution          Land   Construction    Furniture   Equipment     Total
Trades and Industries
Schools
Chiengmai            30,000      445,o0o      36,000      294,000      805,000
Nakhornsawan         15,000      450,ooo      37,000      310,000      812,000
Udornthani             -         574,000      37,000      294,000      905,000
Ubolrajthani         10,000      524,ooo      37,000      295,000      866,000
Rajburi                -         398,000      37,000      294,o0o      729,000
Cholburi             50,000      624,000      37,000      297,000    1,008,000
Songkhla (Hadyai)   100,000      610,000      36,ooo      294,000    1,040,000
Samutprakarn         35,000      604,000      34,000      262,000      935,000
Yala                 25,000      565,000      36,000      310,000      936,000
Nakornrajsima          -         400,000      35,000      294,000      729,000
Phuket               30,000      492,000      29,000      303,000      854,000
Prathumwan             -         288,000      18,000      235,000      541,000
Northern Bangkok       _         329,000      12,000      280,000      621,000
Lopburi                -         371,000      26,000      221,000    _ 618,000
295,ooo    6,674,000     447,000    3,983,000   11,399,000
Contingencies        35,000    1,001,000      68,000      637,000    1,741,000
Total, Trades and
Industries Schools 330,000    7,675,000     515,000    4,620,000   13,140,000
Technical Teacher
Training College
Thewes                 -         265,000      23,000      408,000      696,ooo
Contingencies          -          4o,ooo       2,000       62,000      104,000
Total, Technical
Teacher Training
College               -         305,000      25,000      470,000      800,000
GRAND TOTAL         330,000    7,980,000     540,000    5,090,000   13,940,000
1/ Includes architects' fees.



ANNEX. 11
Page 3
C. COST ESTIMATES FOR AGRICULTURAL SCHOOIS AND
AGRICULTURAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
(In US$ Equivalent)
Equipment
1/                and
Institution           Land   Constiruction  Furniture  Livestock     Total
Chiengmai             35,000     528,000      26,000     83,000      672,000
Ayuthaya              10,000    424,ooo       26,000     83,000      543,000
Surin                   -       680,000       30,000     83,000      793,000
Nakornsrithamaraj       -       676,000       30,000     83,000      789,000
Chumporn                -       5003000       30,000     74,000      604,0oo
Chantaburi              -       48o,0oo       30,000     74,000      584,000
Nakornpathom            -       404,ooo       26,0ooo    74,000      504,ooo
Nan                     -       446,ooo       30,000     73,000      549,000
Pitsanuloke             -       462,o00       30,000 o73,,000        565,000
45,000   4,600,ooo      258,000   700,000    5,603,000
Contingencies          5,000    690,000       42,000    115,000      852,000
Total, Agricultural
Schools              50,000  5,290,000      300,000    815,000    6,455,ooo
Agricultural Teacher
Training College 2/  50,000    365,000       26,000     83,000      52h,000
Contingencies         10,000     55,000        4,000     12,000       81,000
Total, Agricultural
Teacher Training
College              60o000    420,000       30,000     95,000      605,000
GRAND TOTAL          110,000  5,710,000      330,000    910,ooo    7,060,000
1/ Includes architects' fees.
2/ Includes an agricultural school section.



ANNEX 12
page ,
THAILAND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Present and Proposed Enrollment
and Graduates from Project Schools
A. Summary
Enrollment          Graduates
Present Proposed    Present Proposed
Trades and Industries Schools          4,845    6,940      1,220     2,110
Technical Teacher Training               230      550         140      250
Subtotal                    5,125    7,490      1,360    2,360
Agricultural Schools
Upper Secondary Level               1,900    4,100        310     1,250
Technical level                        90      330         _        135
Subtotal                   1,990    4,430        310    1,385
TOTAL                                  7,115   11,920      1,670     3,745
B. Trades and Industries Schools
Enrollment         Graduates
Name of School                         Present Proposed   Present Proposed
North Bangkok                             530      710        150      220
Prathumwan                              1,150      390       425       270
Samutprakarn                               65      445        10       135
Yala                                       75      445          5      135
Songkhla (Haddyai)                        350      445        60       135
Phuket                                    125      445        45       135
Rajburi                                   380      445        80       135
Lopburi                                   220      445        50       135
Nakornsawan                               225      445         50      135
Chiengmai                                 240      445        40       135
Udornthani                                350      445         75      135
Ubolrajthani                              365      445         55      135
Nakornrajsima                             400      445         90      135
Cholburi                                  340      445        80       135
4,845    6,940      1,220    2,110



ANNEX 12
page 2
C. Technical Teacher Training College
(Thewes)
Enrollment          Graduates
Present Proposed    Present Proposed
One-year course                           -        100       -         100
Two-year course                          280        -       140         -
Three-year course                         -        450       -         150
280       550       140       250
D. Agricultural Schools and Teacher Training
Enrollment          Graduates
Upper Secondary Level                  Present Proposed    Present Proposed
Ayuthaya                                  350     350         80       110
Chiengmai                                 580     600        140       175
Nakornsrithamara;                         300     500          50      150
Surin                                     180     600          -       175
Nan                                       150     350         40       110
Chumporn                                   60     350          -       110
Chantaburi                                 60     350          -       110
Pitsanuloke                                80     350          -       110
Nakornpathom                                -     350           -      110
Bangpra                                   140     300          -        90
1,900   4,100        310     1,250
Technical Level (14-15)
Ayuthaya                                    -      60          -        27
Chiengmai                                  60      60         -         28
Nakornsrithamaraj                           -      60         -         27
Surin                                       -      60         -         28
Bangpral/                                  30      90         -         25
90     330         -        135
1/  Teacher tra-ining;course covering grades 14 to 16.



ANNEX 13
page 1
THAILAND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Technical Teacher Supply and Requirements
(1966 - 70)
A. Estimated Enrollment and Output
1966            1967            1968             1969
Enroll-        Enroll-          Enroll-          Enroll-
ment  Output  ment    Output   ment    Output  ment     Output
Bangkok Technical
Institute (l-year     80      80     80      80         -       -       -
course)
Thewes Teacher
Training College
1-year course         -       -      -       -          -      -      100     100
2-year course       280     140    280      140       140     140      -       -
3-year course       150       -    300        -       450     150     450     150
Subtotal        430     140    580     140       590     290      550     250
TOTAL           510     220    660     220       590      290     550     250
B.  Estimated Requirements
1. Teacher Stock Estimates
Project     Non-Project
Schools        Schools        Total
Present Stock Estimate          353          330              633
(of which unqualified)         (181)        (165)            (346)
Stock after project expansion   475          330             805
2.  Detail for Project Schools
Present
School             Qualified      Unqualified         Proposed
Chiengmai                 10              14                 30
Yala                       3                3                30
Nakornsawan                9               13                30
Udornthani                 9               13                30
Ubolrajthani               8               14                30
Nakornrajsima             12               20                30
Rajburi                   14               12                30
Cholburi                  12               12                30
Samutprakarn               3               9                 38
Songkhla                  10              14                 30
Phuket                     6               3                 30
Prathumwan                28               34                60
North Bangkok             27               15                47
Lopburi                   18                5                30
172             181               475



ANNEX 13
page 2
3.  Annual Demand fokr -,Tarhers (1966-68)
For Replacement of-Unqualified Teachers:          346 x 1 = 115
3
For Expansion:                             (805 - 683)x 1  - 41
3
For Replacement Caused by Retirement,      5% x 805 + 683  -  37
Death, etc.:                                     2
Allowance for loss to other employment:                       50
243 or roughly
'the average
annual suppi
over the
1966-68
period.



ANNEX 14
THAILAND - VOCATIONAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Financial Projection 1966-70
(U Million)
1967    1968    1969    1970   1971    Total
1. Capital Expenditure
a. Financed by the
Government              35.0   120.0  130.0    15.0            300.0
b.  Financed by the Bank    10.0   55.0    45.0    10.0            120.0
Total              45.0   175.0  175.0    25.0            h20.0
10%     42%     42%      6%            100%
2. Financial Requirements
to be met by the
Government
c. For Capital Expendi-
tures (as in a)         35.0  120.0   130.0    15.0      -     300.0
d. For Recurrent
Expenditures 1/           _     4.5     7.7    16.5    19.0
Total              35.0  124.5   137.7    31.5    19.0
e. Estimated Government
Total Expenditure on
Education
(in 0 billion)          2.67   2.94    3.24    3.56    3.92
f. Project Cost as a %
of Estimated Govern-
ment Total 'Expendi-
ture on Education       1.3    4.2     4.3     0.9     0.5
1/ Based on c6sts----:for- additional teachers, teaching supplies and maintenance.
Assuming that the proceeds from school fees and tuition charges are used
to cover additional scholarship costs.



, ~ ~ ~~        (_ ~~~~T H A I L A N D
LOCATION OF PROJECT SCHOOLS
)  N O R T H E R N               2          AND EDUCATIONAL REGIONS
S   OChiengmi                                                               O NonoAN
0 6
2 5     N      0   R 5. HakoEajoa T Eda   Rt nutisShol     ke    sn
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5.OlrtoiTae adEutisSho, Eoontan
*  R03S .  Ig OKho nk   a      a
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1\                          Sat".,ra,, *r6de an InutrisSho,Ontrk
k ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20. Naonrtaaa                                  Agrinultural .col )   \r Iaonrc ca
' ~ ~~~                                  ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ACEULUA T*CE TKhAIkING COL
SEPTEMBER  1966 |                                                                                       RD-1403E  G  I  N
. . 1\            ~~~~Nakhor.sawan       ./                              ~
. . , .- ~~~~~13             llt ....'' Chn 
. . 91  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~         r ~~~ Nckornrojsimoa 
:: t                  wJ    C~~~~~~~~opburl .                   Surin                      |
'  Itl-t             ................   9  0  10  '   j'          1'9                     )
A     \C E N T                 1 2 3) E G I O N S          /
f      \          > ~~~~~23  OBAN  0 K                        0      1      10      50 K.
' '  1t   \  RajburlO  \    *~~~~OS Xutprokorn  1 2 
R~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                       50 50                15 1 16-
'0?   |   /0  ' ':                )                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCATION OF THAILAND
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b. rr
. :,- -' r X, ~~~~~1                   T....T.hn..l ...he     -.i      .11 ::  L.. I.
{iJi  | )  /  '               i   1~~~~N  .  -The-e Bechgkick Teachein-i.igCle   r4o
A- /  o hurrporn                       3: P-ath=.-a L.gi;ncu-in.g 5h29l5 anh;. skO
: .> IT \  {- '                *~~~~ 4. Chiengmna iTra des asnd Inusres Schoo, Chie-qMai
:: CI f.'l  1  ,. ,'            *~~ 5. N.k.rraj-i i. T-ad.. an  ;lutrc Sho, :.k-n-aji
. .  s {  1  :,. .,             *~~~~~ 7. Rrjbr Trd! kd llld..tri.s School, Rabbur-
. }  i  :: .                   Ili t~~~~s  . Ubolrajthali- T-ad. ..Id I ....tri-s 5c1,0.1, Ui1olr-jth-n
>: S  J  :': . -               *~~~~~ 9. Y.al -rdes and Indus.tri.. Scnwo.1, Yala
' . :}  /   . . .,               * ~~~~10. Lopburi l:ngin-cing School, Lopburi
.: 'rR  \   - ., ... ,,          * ~~11. ll.dyai T-ads and Industri.: School, iiada-
- : T J ) " :: ... * l~~~~~2. Phuk.t T-ad.. an d In1d..tries bC'I.Ol Ph.ket
.   s   ,uf   t   .   .         ~~~~~~~13. lakor k h-Ja   ......   .fl. -   1  I n-usris  c! ol-  -..........................,kh -r l::   l u
~~ -  1> ,          S ~~14. Saup.hriT-des and lnutis.1-1oo, Sam.utpraka n
, ,.'  / Q    \ ' >               > lS~~ip 1. Cholburi Trade. and InutisSchool. Ch. IIn'i r
,y, ~~~~~~16. Agri-ul-ual Tea-hae Training C.lleqie, L'anzzr, chllb-r
':  r          t. . .             * ~~~~~~~17. Chie.:gq-i Agricultural School, mla.j., Chi-rgl'.2
: / - \': ,' * lS~~~A1. Ayuthaya Agricult-rl School, Ay.thiaya
. (  t~~~~     t.,,,              * ~~~~ 19. Surik, A9 i..lt-1a S.h..l, Surin
-, 3   1  G      X.:    ,          * ~~~~20. Uak-ornsrith-amara Agricultural School, N.akor--rth-.1
. \     <         c ~~~~Nokonsritharnaraj  *A21. Chump-r Atgriculturol School, Chump-r     r
.,~~~~   ~~~~ .A 9    z    :,           *22. Cha tab.ri Agricultural School. Chantaburi
. . NJ  ] s   ~~~   \:: . .       * 23. N'k.rrnp.th-z Agric.ltural School, 1!.kor-p.tiho
^^% ^ (  { -     \:.'.         * ~~~~24. Nan Agr Iicultural School, Nan
! ;.t, U -%,  >  \   V  :        . ~~25. Pitsanuloke Agriculturai School, Pit-.nl.),L
.  , .  <   j [ \gkhla . ' . .  ,       ~E TCHNI CAL TEACHER TRAi NING COLLEGE
t  2hv  @      :              A ~~~~~~~~ACItICULTURAL TEACilER TRAIIJING COLLEG
<jloio      O   ~~ a  >\           A  AGRICULTURAL SCIIOOL
SEPTEMBER 1966                                                                                        IbRD-14551R3



