Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4058 
Operation Name 
SIERRA LEONE: FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT 
POLICY GRANT 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Direct Budget Support (100%) 
Project ID 
P113219 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
Contact Person:  David Carew, Minister of Finance and Economic Dev. 
Tel:  232-22-228-616 
 
232-22-225-826 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl
 
Date PID Prepared 
July 17, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 24, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
August 4, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Sierra Leone is a fragile state, emerging from a brutal conflict (1991-2001) which displaced up to 
a
third of the population.  Sierra Leone fares poorly in most indicators related to human 
development and the Millennium Development Goals.  As noted in a recent document from the 
World Food Program, the country was ranked last in the latest Human Development Index (HDI) 
with data from 2005 computed by the United Nations Development Program.  Life expectancy at 
birth is reported at 41.8 years. Infant mortality in 2005 was estimated at 170 per 1,000 live births, 
and under 5 mortality at 286 per 1,000.  According to the 2005 MICS-III household survey, 31 
percent of children under 5 are underweight, 40 percent stunted, and 9 percent wasted.  The adult 
literacy rate according to HDI data is 34.8 percent, whilst the combined gross enrolment rate for 
primary, secondary and tertiary education is estimated at around 44.6 percent.  
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed operation of US$3 million equivalent is a development policy grant intended to 
support the Government’s poverty reduction strategy in 2008 by providing the authorities with 
needed fiscal space to partially compensate for the lost revenues resulting from the recently 
reduced tariffs on food and fuel imports. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed development policy grant meets all the requirements under the framework of the 
Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP).  Sierra Leone is an IDA-eligible country which 
is a net importer of both food and fuel.  It is therefore highly vulnerable to price fluctuations for 
both commodities. 
Page  2
2
The proposed grant is being undertaken under the Global Food Crisis Program (GFRP), which 
was endorsed by the Board on May 29, 2008, and will be financed out of the Food Price Crisis 
Response Trust Fund.  The objectives of the proposed GFRP are to: (i) reduce the negative 
impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of the poor in a timely way; (ii) support 
governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts of high and 
more volatile food prices on poverty while minimizing the creation of long-term market 
distortions; and (iii) support broad-based growth in productivity and market participation in 
agriculture to ensure an adequate and sustainable food supply response. 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
 
0 
FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY TRUST FUND 
3 
Total
3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this operation will be the responsibility of MOFED.  To facilitate program 
implementation and the coordination of activities, the government has appointed an Inter-
ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance and Economic Development.  
This Committee is composed of key Ministers and the Governor of the BSL.  The Steering 
Committee will be assisted by a Technical Committee comprising high level staff from various 
line ministries and the BSL.  The Technical Committee will be chaired by the Financial 
Secretary and will be responsible for coordinating the activities of all government agencies 
involved in program implementation.   
The Technical Committee will be responsible for monitoring the program and all outcome 
indicators.  The Technical Committee will provide monthly reports to the World Bank and other 
multi-donor budget support partners on implementation progress measured against established 
timetables and agreed performance indicators.  The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the 
government in close coordination with regular Bank missions to ensure continued 
implementation of the program within an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
In addition, as mentioned above, a PRS monitoring function has been established within the 
Development Aid Coordinating Office (DACO).  DACO is expected to coordinate with the 
planning, monitoring and evaluation units within each ministry to produce annual PRSP progress 
reports. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
The measures supported by the proposed grant are expected to have a significant positive impact 
on poverty reduction.  By providing the authorities with needed fiscal space to partially 
compensate for the lost revenues resulting from the recently reduced tariffs on food and fuel 
imports, the operation would help mitigate the impact of such price increases and contribute to 
continued basic service delivery for vulnerable groups, notably school children and patients in 
district hospitals and community health centers.  
Page  3
3
Sierra Leone remains vulnerable to commodity price changes.  A further rise in the prices of 
food or energy could undermine the impact of the Government’s program on the poor.  This 
could also create pressures for a civil service wage increase.  If food and fuel prices remain high 
for a prolonged period or rise further, there is also a risk that the authorities may resort to 
heterodox policies such as government subsidized importing companies or de facto or de jure 
price fixing.  Such policies could drive private sector importers and producers out of the market, 
resulting in significant distortions and shortages.  These risks are being mitigated through 
intensive monitoring by the Government and dialogue with donors and, in the case of further 
significant increases in food and fuel prices, may require additional measures to sustain the fiscal 
balance and macroeconomic stability.   Furthermore, the goal of redirecting resources to offset 
rising food prices could be made more difficult in the event that revenues or grants fall 
significantly short of targets or if substantial new and unavoidable spending requirements arise.  
These risks are mitigated by the Government’s manifested commitment to adhere to the already 
established principle of protecting priority expenditures through reductions in less essential 
spending.  Finally, there is a risk that implementation capacity in central ministries and local 
councils may not be sufficient to ensure that targeted beneficiaries are served in 2008 at least as 
well as they had been in 2007, because of the natural replacement of various key officials due to 
the political transition in late 2007 and early 2008.  MOFED officials indicated they have largely 
addressed this risk through intensive dialogue and monitoring with the implementing ministries 
and local councils. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The measures supported by the proposed grant are expected to have a significant positive impact 
on poverty reduction.  A rapid assessment resulting from the recent Bank mission confirms that 
the set of measures undertaken by the Government and detailed in paragraph 5.4 are the most 
feasible given the circumstances and will have fast and positive impact on Sierra Leone's poor 
population.  In addition, the 2008 Poverty Diagnostic concludes that the import tariff reductions, 
and for rice in particular, are pro-poor – with the poor accounting for 55 percent of the food 
purchased in the country.  By providing the authorities with needed fiscal space to partially 
compensate for the lost revenues resulting from the recently reduced tariffs on food and fuel 
imports, the operation would help mitigate the impact of such price increases and contribute to 
continued basic service delivery for vulnerable groups, notably school children and patients in 
district hospitals and community health centers. 
This operation is not likely to have significant negative environmental impacts.  The operation 
does not involve any significant physical processes that would impact the environment of Sierra 
Leone.  An appropriate environmental framework is now in place with the adoption of legislation 
in July 2008 establishing an Environmental Protection Agency but capacity will need to be built 
and sustained over time. 
8. Contact point: 
 
Contact: Douglas M. Addison 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-1188 
Email: Daddison@worldbank.org 
Page  4
4
9. 
For more information contact
:
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
