Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
FPCR TF GRANT NUMBER TF092619 
 
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund  
Grant Agreement 
(Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund  
 
Dated August 18, 2008 
Page  2
FPCR TF GRANT NUMBER TF092619 
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 18, 2008, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
SIERRA LEONE (
“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
(“World Bank”)
,
acting as trustee of the 
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fu
nd,
 for the 
purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement). The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are 
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the World Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
PROGRAM 
2.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the  
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
GRANT 
3.01 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to three million Dollars 
($3,000,000
)
(“Grant”). 
3.02  
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in support of the Program in 
 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
3.03. 
The World Bank has received eighty-five million Dollars ($85,000,000) as a contribution 
to the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund and expects to receive an additional 
contribution of one hundred fifteen million Dollars ($115,000,000) during October 2008.  
Until such time as the additional contribution is credited to the said trust fund, no 
withdrawal shall be made from the Grant Account if, as a result of such withdrawal, the 
total amount of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account would exceed the amount 
available to the World Bank from the resources provided to it under the said trust fund
 
for 
the purposes of the Grant. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE IV 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
4.01. The Recipient
’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
 
Conditions is  
its Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
4.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
 
is: 
 Minister 
of 
Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Ministerial 
Building 
 George 
Street
 
Freetown  
 Sierra 
Leone 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
 MINFIN, 
Freetown 
 
4.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
 
is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By: /s/  Bockarie
 
Stevens 
     
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Acting as Trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response  
 
Trust Fund 
 
By: /s/ Michel Wormser 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The action taken by the Recipient under the Program is the following: the Recipient has 
reduced tariffs to mitigate the impact of rapidly rising international prices of food and fuel and 
has prepared an action plan, acceptable to the World Bank, to protect the provision of basic 
services to vulnerable groups.
 
Section II. 
Availability of Grant Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Grant Amount.
 
The Grant shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
 
Single Tranche 
3,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,000,000 
C. 
Deposit of Grant Amount.
 
Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the World Bank 
into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the World Bank; 
and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the amount of the Grant into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the World Bank. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank determines at any time 
that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the World Bank refund an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment to the World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank 
upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  7
6
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than IBRD or IDA has 
financed or agreed to finance, or which IBRD or IDA has financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the World Bank by notice to the Recipient: 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
Page  8
7
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds, without the Recipient  
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the World Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
2. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to mitigate the 
impact of food price increases and set forth or referred to in the letter dated July 25, 2008 
from the Recipient to the World Bank declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the World Bank in support of 
the Program during its execution. 
3. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Grant allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
4. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World 
Bank Out of Various Funds”, dated July 1, 2008,
 
with the modifications set forth in 
Section II of this Appendix. 
Section II.  Modifications to the Standard Conditions  
The modifications to the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of 
Various Funds”, dated July 1, 2008 are as follows:   
1. 
Sections 2.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 2.07 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
2. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
3. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.04. 
Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Grant 
Page  9
8
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the World 
Bank
’s representatives to examine such records.” 
4. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 1 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
Section 2.05. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the World Bank 
of their respective obligations under the Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant. 
5. 
The last sentence of paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 (relating to withdrawals) is deleted in 
its entirety. 
6. 
Sections 3.05 (
Designated Accounts
)
and 3.06 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered accordingly. 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix to the Standard Conditions 
are modified or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added 
in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Grant is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Grant 
Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in support of 
which the Grant is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these Standard 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
