                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001189




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-92619)

                                    ON A

          FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE



                              December 17, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department West Africa 1
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective November 16, 2009)

                                    Currency Unit
                    Currency Unit          = Leone
                    US$1.00                = Le 3,821

                                    FISCAL YEAR

                              January 1 to December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABU      Agricultural Business Units
AfDB     African Development Bank
BSL      Bank of Sierra Leone
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPIA     Country Performance and Institutional Assessment
CWIQ     Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DACO     Development Aid Coordinating Office
DfID     Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EC       European Commission
FFS      Farmer Field Schools
GBAA     Government Budgeting and Accountability Act (2005)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GFRP     Global Food Crisis Program
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IRCB     Institutional Reform and Capacity Building
MDRI     Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEST     Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
MOFED    Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MOHS     Ministry of Health and Sanitation
NaCSA    National Commission for Social Action
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PETS     Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PFM      Public Financial Management
PRGF     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
UK       United Kingdom
UN       United Nations
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WFP      World Food Program

                           Vice President:   Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
                        Country Director:    Ishac Diwan (AFCF2)
                          Sector Director:   Sudhir Shetty (AFTPM)
                         Sector Manager:     Antonella Bassani (AFTP4)
                       Task Team Leader:     Douglas Addison (AFTP4)
                                                          COUNTRY
                                                        SIERRA LEONE



                                                            CONTENTS


Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................................ 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............................ 18

Annexes

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................... 19
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................................... 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 23
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 24

Country Map IBRD #33478
A. Basic Information
                                                                            SL-DPL-FOOD
Country:                Sierra Leone              Program Name:
                                                                            CRISIS RESPONSE
Program ID:             P113219                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92619
ICR Date:               12/16/2009                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                       Borrower:
                                                                            SIERRA LEONE
Original Total
                        USD 3.0M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 3.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         Not Applicable
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         Expedited      Effectiveness:          08/22/2008        08/20/2008
Appraisal:            07/25/2008       Restructuring(s):       Not Applicable    Not Applicable
Approval:             08/06/2008       Mid-term Review: Not applicable           Not Applicable
                                       Closing:                06/30/2009        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Moderate
Bank Performance:                                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                      (QEA):                   None
(Yes/No):                                          Not Applicable
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                              50                   50
Health                                                                50                   50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100                100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                          Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Antonella Bassani                    Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:       Douglas M. Addison                   Douglas M. Addison
ICR Team Leader:           Douglas M. Addison
ICR Primary Author:        J. Matthew Mitchell


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant of US$3 million was to support the
Government's poverty reduction strategy by providing the authorities with needed fiscal
space to partially compensate for the lost revenues resulting from the reduced tariffs on
food and fuel imports.




                                                 ii
Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

None
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                                    Actual Value
                        Baseline Value       Original Target Formally Revised
    Indicator                                                                       Achieved at
                        As of 12/2007            Values       Target Values
                                                                                    Completion
Significant            Rice tariff=15%      Rice tariff=10%                       Rice tariff=10%
reduction in           Flour tariff =20%    Flour tariff =10%                     Flour tariff =10%
import tariffs         Wheat tariff =5.0%   Wheat tariff =2.5%      Not Revised   Wheat tariff =2.5%
                       Sugar tariff =20%    Sugar tariff =10%                     Sugar tariff =10%
                       Petrol tariff =5%    Petrol tariff =$20/mt                 Petrol tariff =$20/mt
Number of                                                                         At least 12,734
hospital patients in                                                              hospital patients
district hospitals                                                                were fed in district
and community                                                                     hospitals and local
                             12,800               12,800            Not Revised
health centers that                                                               health centers in
receive food                                                                      2008. One hospital
                                                                                  did not report.

 Number of
lactating mothers
and children under
the age of five, in
hospitals
administered by               5,300                5,300            Not Revised          8,200
the Ministry of
Health and
Sanitation that
receive feedings
three times a day.
 Number of pupils
in government
boarding schools
and handicapped               3,000                3,000            Not Revised          3,470
children who are
fed three times per
day.
 Number of                                                                        380 children in
children in remand                                                                remand homes and
homes and                                                                         approved schools
approved schools                                                                  were fed in 2008.
who receive food.                                                                 The total number
                              500                  500              Not Revised
                                                                                  dropped because of
                                                                                  a reduced number of
                                                                                  children in the
                                                                                  homes.




                                                      iii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
 1     03/24/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.00
 2     06/19/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              iv
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and
Design
(This section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR, not evaluative):

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(Brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Background. In 2008, the massive spike in global food and fuel prices threatened to
exacerbate the high rate of poverty in Sierra Leone, a country of 5.6 million people.
About 57 percent of the population was already below the poverty line in 2007.
Furthermore, 21 percent faced extreme poverty, unable to meet more than half of their
daily calorie requirements. The international price of rice more than doubled in the first
half of 2008, from US$375/ metric ton (mt) in January to US$775/mt in June. Global
prices of other major food staples, such as wheat and sugar, also rose.

Rice is a major food staple in Sierra Leone. Because of limited agricultural production,
the country imports nearly a third of its rice consumption. Approximately one million
people live in the capital city of Freetown, far from food-producing areas and dependent
on imported food staples. According to Government estimates, the increase in the price
of rice alone threatened to push 100,000 to 150,000 more people below the poverty line.

Sierra Leone's indicators of human development, among the lowest in the world, attest to
the country's pervasive poverty. Per capita Gross National Income (GNI) of US$ 300 per
day in 2008, is roughly half the average for low-income countries. The rate of infant
mortality, estimated at 158 per 1,000 live births in 2005, is more than double the average
for the world's low-income countries. An estimated 27 percent of children less than five
years of age suffer from malnutrition with mortality in this age group reportedly at 267
per 1,000 in 2005. Thus, the availability of affordable food is a major concern of the
Government.

The program of policy actions linked to the Food Crisis Response Development Policy
Grant (FCR grant) reflected the priorities of the Government's first Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS), which covered the period of 2005 to 2007. This PRS had a target annual
economic growth rate of 8-9 percent, focused on three pillars: (i) good governance,
security, and peace building; (ii) sustainable economic growth focused on food security
and job creation; and (iii) human development. In addition to the poverty-related
concerns, the PRS emphasized continued peace and security. A second PRS was adopted
by the authorities in mid-2009.

A civil conflict for the seven years prior to 2001 had devastated the country's
infrastructure and displaced about a third of the population. The Government considered
poverty reduction a key factor in preventing a rise in social and political tensions. The
quality of governance was also a major issue because Sierra Leone's low ranking in this
area had constrained external assistance to the country.



                                                    1
Sierra Leone had made significant progress in economic growth before the food crisis of
2008. From the end of civil conflict in 2001, through 2007, the country's economy
showed a strong recovery. In 2007, the economy grew at 6.8 percent despite high oil
prices. Much of this growth came from the informal agricultural, fishing, mining and
service sectors.

Exacerbating the adverse impact of more expensive food imports was sluggish growth in
exports. Diamonds have been Sierra Leone's major source of export earnings. However,
in recent years the country has broadened the export base to include other minerals and
cash crops. Export growth, though positive, slowed relative to GDP growth in 2007, with
imports declining as a result of falling export earnings and rising oil prices.
Macroeconomic projections during the appraisal of the program that the FCR grant
supported (FCR program) indicated slower growth of 6 percent for 2008-2010 compared
to 7 percent between 2005 and 2007.

Inflation was a major concern in 2008. Increases in international food and fuel prices
were accelerating inflation, which jumped to about 16.8 percent in June of 2008, more
than double the level at the end of 2006 (8.3 percent). The international consumer price
of rice was 139 percent higher in June 2008 than in June 2007. The international price of
petroleum increased by 92 over the same period. The rising pace of inflation, made more
painful by the sharp increases in food and fuel prices, caused concern within the
Government about the impact on poverty and social stability.

Rationale for Assistance. In July 2008, the Government prepared a detailed letter of
development policy to address the crisis of high food prices. It requested a US$3 million
grant from the World Bank under the Global Food Crisis Program (GFCP) with financing
from the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund to partially compensate for foregone
revenues resulting from a policy to reduce tariffs on key food and fuel imports. The
Government stated that the assistance would help to protect the provision of basic food
services to groups of people most vulnerable to price increases in 2008.

A rapid response was necessary because the Government was concerned about the
availability of affordable food and its ability to provide adequate levels of assistance to
groups most vulnerable to higher food prices during the "hungry season," from June to
December 2008, a period of frequent scarcity in the domestic food supply. Meeting basic
needs also was crucial to maintaining peace and security in Sierra Leone's post-conflict
economy. In order to expedite GFCP operations, the World Bank's management
approved the use of procedures that reduced the number of internal reviews and
clearances.

The program of policy measures for which the Government requested assistance met the
eligibility criteria for funding under GFCP, which assisted operations designed to: (i)
reduce the negative impact of high and volatile food prices on the lives of the poor, in a
timely way; (ii) support governments in the design of sustainable policies that mitigate
the adverse impact of high and volatile food prices on poverty while minimizing the




                                            2
creation of long-term market distortions; and (iii) support broad-based growth in
productivity and market participation in agriculture and sustainable food supply response.

The FCR program supported the PRS pillar for sustainable growth, food security and job
creation, which also was a pillar in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). By
helping to contain the adverse impact of the food crisis, the grant complemented medium-
term operations in the CAS to reduce poverty and expand domestic food production--the
latter to be achieved through a combination of agricultural investment projects in
agricultural development, road network expansion, and increased extension services. By
supporting feeding programs for vulnerable groups in Government hospitals and schools,
the grant also complemented operations under the Human Development pillar of the
CAS. (For a detailed description of the relationship of this operation to other World Bank
activities, please see paragraph 4.2 in the Program Document.) The International
Development Association (IDA) has coordinated its operations closely with those of the
IMF and other development partners that are providing budget support or financing for
investment operations.1

The design of the program supported by the FCR grant incorporated a key lesson learned
from cross-country experience--that governments facing temporary price shocks should
seek to maintain their expenditure plans, to the extent that they have access to non-
inflationary and concessional financing, in order to minimize program disruptions and
hold down costs. In the case of permanent shocks, an adjustment in taxation and
spending will be necessary. In the former case, budget support can help ease the process
of transition, especially since other operations were supporting efforts to expand domestic
food production. Such programs are particularly important in countries with fragile
economic and political situations, such as Sierra Leone. The performance of past
development policy grants for Sierra Leone had been satisfactory. The key factors
resulting in satisfactory performance were continuous improvements in fiduciary
arrangements, adaptation to local implementation capacity, frequent consultation with
authorities, intensive coordination with other budget support donors, and intensive
supervision in collaboration with staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Economic
Development (MOFED).

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
(As approved)

The program objective was to support the Government's PRS by providing the authorities
with needed fiscal space by partially compensating for lost revenues resulting from the
reduced tariffs on food and fuel imports. This support would help mitigate the impact of
such price increases and contribute to continued basic service delivery for vulnerable
1
  Development partners involved in budget support include the British Department for International
Development (DfID), the European Community (EC), and the African Development Bank (AfDB).
Organizations helping Sierra Leone increase food production or supporting feeding programs include the
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Food Program (WFP), the World Health
Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). A national coalition of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) are supporting the development of national field schools to improve
farmer productivity and marketing.


                                                   3
groups. In particular, the size of the grant was matched against the estimated incremental
cost (US$3 million) of maintaining government funded feeding programs across all
ministries and agencies.

The program matrix consisted of two sets of performance indicators: (i) policy actions
designed to enhance food security, which the Government took prior to the release of
grant funds; and (ii) support for human development through the provision of food
assistance in 2008 to at least the same number of people in designated priority groups as
in 2007.

The key indicators in support of food security were reductions in tariffs on major
imported foodstuffs--rice, flour, wheat and sugar--as well as petroleum (See Section
3.2, Table 2.3). In support of human development, the key indicators were the provision
of food assistance to at least the same number of people in 2008 as in 2007, designated by
the Government as priorities for food assistance. The FCR program monitored assistance
to the following key groups considered most vulnerable ­patients in district hospitals and
community health centers, lactating mothers and children under five years of age in
hospitals administered by the Ministry of Health and Sanitation, and selected groups of
school children (See Section 2.1, Table 2.3).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

There was no change in the PDO during the program's implementation period.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

Within the framework of the Government's PRS, the FCR program supported the policy
of lessening the adverse impact of high food and fuel prices on consumer welfare through
reducing duties on food and fuel imports; (b) using lower world reference prices to value
rice, the country's core food commodity; (c) reducing the excise tax on petroleum
products; (d) accessing funds from the strategic petroleum reserve to temporarily
subsidize petroleum prices; and (e) providing seed rice to farmers. The Government also
prepared an action plan to use additional resources from donors, including from this
operation, to protect the provision of selected basic services to vulnerable groups despite
higher prices and lower tariff revenues.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

There was no revision to the policy areas.

1.6 Other Significant Changes
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were no significant changes to the project's design, scope, scale, implementation
framework, or funding allocation.



                                                    4
5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance
(Supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

Policy Actions and Release of Grant Funds. The program that the FCR grant
supported required a set of policy actions summarized in Table 2.1(a) and detailed in
Section 3.2. The Bank released US$3 million in grant funds (August 27, 2008) to Sierra
Leone for budget support as noted in Table 2.1(b) after all actions were completed and
the grant had been made effective following Board approval on August 4, 2008.

    Table 2.1 (a) Summary Conditions for Single Tranche Release
    List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                Status

    Reduction of tariffs in 2008 to mitigate the impact of rapidly rising international    Achieved.
    prices of food and fuel and the preparation of an action plan, acceptable to the
    World Bank, to protect the provision of basic services to vulnerable groups.


Table 2.1 (b) Amount and Date of Tranche Release
Amount                 Expected Release      Actual Release Date                    Release
(USD million)          Date
3.0 (Single tranche)   August 23, 2008       August 27, 2008                         Regular

Policy Actions. The government took the following actions to mitigate the impact of the
food and fuel price increases:

a. reduced tariff and excise rates in March 2008:
   · the import duty on petroleum was reduced from 5 percent of CIF ad valorem to
       US$20 per metric ton;
   · the import duty on rice was reduced from 15 to 10 percent;
   · the fixed reference price used to value rice was set at US$375 per metric ton, well
       below world prices but higher than the 2007 reference price of US$260 per metric
       ton;
   · the import duty on flour was reduced from 20 to 10 percent;
   · the import duty on wheat was reduced from 5 to 2.5 percent;
   · the import duty on sugar was reduced from 20 to 10 percent.
b. reduced the excise tax on petroleum products by Le 610 per imperial gallon in
   November 2007 and partially restored the excise tax by Le 300 per imperial gallon in
   March 2008;
c. used funds from a strategic petroleum reserve to subsidize petroleum product prices
   for five weeks in June and July of 2008; and
d. provided 71,000 bushels of seed rice to farmers.2


2
  The previous government had discontinued the distribution of seedlings due to wasteful delays beyond
planting times and an inability to account for all the seedlings distributed.


                                                         6
In addition, on July 25, 2008, the Government provided the Bank with an action plan to
protect the provision of basic services to vulnerable groups. Under the plan, the
Government used additional resources from donors (including from this operation) to
fund the provision of basic services to vulnerable groups. The beneficiaries included
school children and patients in district hospitals and community health centers that
receive government provided meals. The latter include lactating mothers and children
under the age of five.

Tariff and tax policy. The tariff and tax reductions were conceived of as temporary
measures, to be reversed when international prices had returned to pre-crisis levels. The
average petroleum price in 2007 was US$71 per barrel. It reached a peak of US$133/bbl
by July 2008 and had fallen to US$73/bbl by October 2008. The import tariff and excise
tax on petroleum and petroleum products were therefore restored to their pre-crisis rates
in October 2008. The average international price of rice was US$326 per metric ton in
2007. It reached a peak of US$907/mt in April 2008 and then began falling--but not
enough to bring prices close to pre-crisis levels. The price was US$532/mt in December
2008 and it grew to US$572/mt by June 2009. Somewhat similar patterns are displayed
by wheat, flour, and sugar3 prices. The Government has therefore chosen to maintain the
reductions in the import tariffs for these commodities.

Macroeconomic Performance. The Government maintained good macroeconomic
performance throughout 2008 and 2009, despite the adverse exogenous shocks generated
by the food and food crisis and the global recession that followed immediately thereafter.

Consumer price inflation has remained moderate. The policy measures described above
reduced the magnitude of the shock felt by consumers and government providers of basic
services. For example, the international price for rice rose by 139 percent between June
2007 and June 2008 while the domestic price rose by only 49 percent over the same
period. The international price of petroleum rose by 92 percent in the same period while
the domestic price rose by only 27 percent. The international prices for food and fuel
began to fall in the second half of the year, although most prices remained well above
2007 levels. This allowed a moderation in domestic price inflation rate so that the end-
of-period inflation rate in 2008 for the consumer price index was only 12.2 percent
against an IMF program forecast of 15.7 percent (see Table 2.2). The end-of-period
inflation rate for 2009 is forecast to be 9.5 percent as a consequence of prudent monetary
policy and despite exchange rate depreciation of almost 30 percent (end-of-period)
induced by slower export demand and reduced inflows from remittances.

Fiscal policy has promoted price stability and public service provision. By temporarily
reducing tariffs, the Government lessened the burden of high food prices on the
consumer. However, this policy action also lowered the revenue that Government could
have collected had tariffs remained at the 2007 levels. MOFED estimated this loss, for
2008, at about Le 20.7 billion (or US$7 million), valued at actual prices during the first
half of the year. At the same time, MOFED estimated an increase of Le 13.6 billion in
the cost of delivering basic food services across all ministries and agencies, of which

3
    From EU sources.


                                            7
around Le 8.9 billion (US$3 million) resulted from the higher cost of food. The FCR
grant partially compensated for the foregone revenues and increased costs.4

Total domestic revenues collected by the Government in 2008 were 11.4 percent of GDP
against a budget target of 11.9 percent of GDP. Some of this loss could be attributable to
the policy actions described above but additional shortfalls occurred in other categories of
import duties, excise taxes, mining taxes, and non-tax revenues. Net external financing
was well below the budget target, requiring a compression in spending to 20.7 percent of
GDP from the approved budget of 21.3 percent of GDP. The overall deficit therefore
increased to 4.8 percent of GDP against the expected deficit of 3.2 percent of GDP.

Table 2.2: Selected Economic Indicators, 2008-09
                                                                       2008               2008              2009             2009
                                                                    Program           Estimate            Budget        Projection

    Real GDP Growth a/
     Aggregate                                                             5.5               5.5               5.5               4.0
     Per-capita                                                            3.4               3.4               3.4               1.9
    GDP Shares
    Exports Goods & Non-factor Services b/                                  ..              16.3                 ..             15.7
    Imports Goods & Non-factor Services                                     ..              29.4                 ..             28.5
    Current Account Balance c/                                           -7.1              -11.2                 ..             -9.4
    Revenue and Grants                                                   18.1               15.9              18.4              18.6
     Revenues                                                            11.8               11.4              12.1              11.2
     Grants d/                                                            6.3                4.5               6.3               7.3
    Expenditures                                                         21.2               20.7              21.9              23.0
     Recurrent                                                           15.2               14.6              14.8              15.3
     Development                                                          6.0                6.2               7.1               7.7
    Fiscal Balance                                                       -3.2               -4.8              -3.5              -4.4
    Fiscal Balance, excluding grants d/                                  -9.4               -9.4              -9.8             -11.8
    Domestic Primary Fiscal Balance                                      -2.8               -2.4              -1.4              -3.8
    Other
    Broad money (%, e.o.p.)                                              20.9              26.4                  ..             12.9
    Reserve money (%, e.o.p.)                                            18.2              10.2               11.6               7.8
    Consumer Price Inflation (%, e.o.p.) e/                              15.7              12.2                  ..              9.5
    Exchange Rate (Le/US$, e.o.p.)                                          ..            3,042                  ..            3,910
a. The GDP estimates are provisional and remain subject to review.
b. Includes estimates of unrecorded diamond exports.
c. Including current official grants. Excludes capital official grants.
d. The domestic primary fiscal balance is defined as domestic revenues minus total expenditures and net lending, excluding interest
    payments and externally financed capital expenditures.
e. Western Area only.
Sources: International Monetary Fund and World Bank staff estimates and projections.


Sierra Leone's economic conditions and prospects have been being seriously affected by
the global economic downturn. The mining sector is particularly hard hit, but other
sectors are also affected, including services and tourism. Sluggish global demand for
exports combined with a reduction in remittances from abroad has contributed to a
slowing in economic activity with forecast real GDP growth in 2009 reduced to 4 percent
compared to an earlier forecast of 5.5 percent made in the fourth quarter of 2008.



4
 In parallel, the GFRP provided US$ 4 million for a Cash-for-Work program, implemented by the National
Commission for Social Action.


                                                                  8
Domestic revenue in 2009 is projected to decline by 0.2 percentage points of GDP to 11.2
percent of GDP (0.9 percent of GDP less than the budget target) due to lower imports, a
decline in mining activity, weaker corporate income, and revenue policy slippages. The
expected revenue shortfall will be accommodated by identified additional external budget
support, a reduction in recurrent spending (mainly through a decline in domestic interest
obligations), and additional financing. As a result, the overall fiscal balance is projected
to worsen to -4.4 percent of GDP against the budget target of -3.5 percent of GDP, while
the domestic primary fiscal balance would worsen to -3.8 percent of GDP compared to
the budget target of -1.4 percent of GDP. Despite this, overall monetary growth is
forecast to remain moderate and supportive of price stability, growing by 12.9 percent
(for a more detailed description of macroeconomic developments in 2008 and 2009, see
the Program Document for the Governance Reform and Growth Credit III, Report N.
51130-SL).

Implementation of Action Plan. In spite of the fiscal difficulties outlined above, the
Government implemented the action plan that it had committed to. In essence, the
Government intended to meet its targets for numbers of vulnerable people fed despite
rising food prices. Table 2.3 summarizes the implementation of the program. Two
targets were exceeded one target did not benefit from full reporting, and one target (for
remand homes) may have been set too high in light of reduced demand for remand home
services.

Impact of the Program. Annex 2 of MOFED's implementation report on the FCR
program indicates that at least 24,784 people received food assistance in sectors specified
in the Program Matrix.5 The aggregate number of people receiving assistance was at
least 15 percent higher than in 2007. The overall impact was likely much higher because
the FCR program also provided food assistance to security services, for which the
Program Matrix had no monitoring indicators. The beneficiaries cited are only those who
received food assistance from government-funded social service programs, with budget
support from external sources, including the FCR grant.6 In addition, the population at
large would have benefited from the reduction in the food and fuel import tariffs, the
reduced fuel excise tax, and the fuel subsidy. Section 3.2 discusses the results in more
detail.




5
  It is possible that more people may have benefited from feeding programs: one district hospital did not
report their performance for Table 2.3.
6
  The indicators do not include people who received food assistance from programs that official donors and
non-governmental agencies (NGOs) financed and operated on their own.


                                                    9
Table 2.3: Program Performance
 PRSP and
CAS Results
to Which the                                                Baseline Value       Original Target          Actual Value
                                 Indicator
   Policy                                                   As of 12/2007            Values                Achieved
   Actions
 Contribute
Food Security   Significant reduction in import tariffs   Rice tariff=15%      Rice tariff=10%         Rice tariff=10%
                                                          Flour tariff =20%    Flour tariff =10%       Flour tariff =10%
                                                          Wheat tariff =5.0%   Wheat tariff =2.5%      Wheat tariff =2.5%
                                                          Sugar tariff =20%    Sugar tariff =10%       Sugar tariff =10%
                                                          Petrol tariff =5%    Petrol tariff =$20/mt   Petrol tariff =$20/mt


Human           1. Number of hospital patients in                                                        At least 12,734
Development     district hospitals and community                                                        hospital patients
                health centers that receive food                                                       were fed in district
                                                                                                       hospitals and local
                                                                 12,800               12,800
                                                                                                        health centers in
                                                                                                       2008. One hospital
                                                                                                         did not report.

                2. Number of lactating mothers and
                children under the age of five, in
                hospitals administered by the Ministry
                                                                 5,300                 5,300                   8,200
                of Health and Sanitation that receive
                feedings three times a day.

                3. Number of pupils in government
                boarding schools and handicapped
                children who are fed three times per             3,000                 3,000                   3,470
                day.

                4. Number of children in remand                                                           380 children in
                homes and approved schools who                                                          remand homes and
                receive food.                                                                            approved schools
                                                                                                         were fed in 2008.
                                                                                                         The total number
                                                                  500                   500
                                                                                                        dropped because of
                                                                                                       a reduced number of
                                                                                                          children in the
                                                                                                              homes.



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

The major factors affecting implementation were exogenous shocks and the degree of
Government commitment. Three exogenous shocks were felt during the period of
program implementation. The first was a rapid escalation in the international prices of
imported fuel and food during the first half of 2008 which motivated a rapid response on
the part of the Government to reduce import duties, excise taxes, and implement a
temporary subsidy for petroleum products. As noted in the section above, the
international prices for food and fuel abated somewhat in the second half of the year. In
the case of fuel prices, the reduction was enough to justify an end to the temporary tariff
and excise tax reductions. The second exogenous shock came from lower than
programmed net external aid flows. As noted in section 2.1 above, the Government


                                                            10
compensated by compressing expenditures. Fortunately, Government commitment to its
Action Plan was sufficient to ensure good progress in meeting (and in two cases,
exceeding) feeding program targets. The third exogenous shock was the impact of the
global economic crisis that dampened the country's growth prospects in 2009 and
affected fiscal performance. Despite this shock, the Government was able to maintain
acceptable macroeconomic performance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

In April 2008, MOFED prepared a draft implementation report, followed by a second
report in June 2009 and a final report in December 2009. Until the final report, data on
one outcome indicator (district hospitals) was largely incomplete while data on another
outcome indicator (for remand homes) was unavailable. The reporting problems were
largely attributable, in the view of the authorities, to slow reporting from beneficiary
government facilities, notably the district hospitals and remand homes.

In order to track the implementation of the plan, the Budget Bureau of MOFED and the
Accountant General's Department established a uniform code for program expenditures
within the PRS monitoring framework of Sierra Leone's Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS). The Government used this code to track
expenditures for the food assistance programs of beneficiary government agencies funded
thanks to the fiscal space created by this operation. However, despite well identified
budgetary allocations for each component of the food assistance programs, there was no
reporting on overall public expenditures on these programs.

On the physical side of the food distribution program, MOFED relied on the various
ministries benefiting from the grant to provide a report on the number of people receiving
food assistance. This led to some important reporting lags, notably for the number of
beneficiaries in district hospitals and remand homes.

According to the Program Document, a technical committee, consisting of representatives
from the various line ministries to receive grant funds, was to produce monthly reports on
program progress. The M&E framework was simple--reporting on the number of
persons, in each beneficiary category who received food assistance through government
programs for food assistance, to which the grant contributed. However, the Bank did not
receive regular, periodic progress reports and MOFED's implementation report does not
indicate the creation of the planned technical committee.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

The grant was an emergency response to high food prices in 2008 and the Government's
request for assistance. Food prices have declined somewhat in 2009, although they are
still well above pre-crisis levels. At the same time, the global economic crisis further
reduced Government revenues available for social programs resulting in the need for
continued budget support from development partners, including from the IDA-financed




                                           11
Third Governance Reform and Growth Credit (GRGC-3) that was approved by the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors on November 24, 2009.

 Parallel to the FCR grant for food assistance programs, the Food Price Crisis Response
Trust Fund operation, in August 2008, approved a grant of US$4 million to support a
cash-for-work program, which was part of the IDA-funded National Social Action
Project (NaSAP). This project, supported by an IDA Credit of US$41.9 million (Credit
3748-SL), uses a community-driven development (CDD) approach to design and manage
projects focused on rebuilding the lives of Sierra Leoneans in the aftermath of the
devastation of facilities and displacement of people during the country's seven-year civil
war. A second GFRP trust fund grant of US$4 million grant was approved in early
November 2009 to continue and scale up the cash-for-work program.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The FCR grant objectives, design, and implementation were fully consistent with the
country's priorities in the context of the food and fuel crisis, as specified in the Letter of
Development Policy that accompanied this operation. The program's design was
appropriate to country circumstances. The design was keep simple by focusing on one
set of policy actions that were considered critical to address the impact of the crisis on the
most vulnerable segment of society, especially given the country's dependence on food
imports. Although not explicitly included in the CAS, the operation was fully consistent
with the CAS pillar in support of sustainable growth, food security and job creation. By
helping to contain the adverse impact of the food crisis, the grant complemented medium-
term operations in the CAS to reduce poverty and expand domestic food production. By
supporting feeding programs in Government hospitals and schools, the grant also
complemented operations under the Human Development pillar of the CAS. Finally, the
operation was prepared and processed in a very short time period (12 weeks). This
allowed the Bank to provide timely counter-cyclical support to the Government during
the crisis.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)

The Government addressed the crisis in a timely and appropriate manner in early 2008 by
reducing tariffs and excise taxes to lessen the burden of high world food prices on the
consumers (see Table 2.2). After petroleum prices fell substantially in 2008, the tariff
and excise tax reductions for petroleum and petroleum products were discontinued. By
contrast, the tariff reductions for rice, wheat, and flour have been maintained in the face
of continued high international prices.




                                                     12
The Government backed these policies with an appropriate action plan meant to
safeguard feeding targets for vulnerable groups in government hospital and school
programs. Acceptable progress towards these targets was achieved (and surpassed for
two targets) despite shortfalls in budgeted revenues and net external financing. Table 2.2
shows the baseline, target and actual numbers of people receiving food assistance
according to the Program Matrix. Based on reported results for all beneficiary groups
combined, the grant supported a program of food assistance to at least 24,784 people in
educational and health institutions, which was well above the baseline for 2007 (21,600).

·   The program provided meals for 8,200 lactating mothers and children under age five,
    exceeding the target by 55 percent.
·   In contrast, food assistance to 12,734, patients in district hospitals and health centers,
    was about 20 percent below the target. However, according to MOFED, this total
    does not include all people who actually received assistance. In its final
    implementation report, MOFED indicated that one district hospital that received food
    assistance had not yet reported on the number of people assisted. Even so, it would
    appear that progress was substantial: 99.5 percent of the target was met by the
    reporting district hospitals.
·   The program provided meals for 3,470 handicapped children and pupils in
    Government boarding schools, exceeding the target by 16 percent.
·   The program provided meals for 380 children in remand homes. The number
    dropped below the 2007 baseline of 500 due to an improved security situation.

In addition, the Government ensured that this operation was backed by complementary
projects aimed at increased food production and the provision of a social safety net
program.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

Rating: Satisfactory

The operation is rated satisfactory. The operation's development objectives were
achieved and the anticipated results substantially materialized. Objectives, design,
implementation, and outcomes were highly relevant to country circumstances and
development priorities as well as to the Bank's strategy. Satisfactory performance was
achieved with regard to monitoring and evaluation although there was some room for
improvement. In particular, there was no confirmation that the technical monitoring
committee was created. Also, there were no periodic progress reports--although the
proposed monthly frequency was too ambitious. Finally, there was incomplete reporting
on actual expenditures on feeding program components, and substantial lags in reporting
on the number of beneficiaries in district hospitals and remand homes.




                                             13
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion about)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The measurable impact of the program was the number of vulnerable people in specified
categories of the original Program Matrix who received some form of food assistance
(meals or bulk food supplies), which amounted to 24,784. In addition, as indicated
earlier, the program also provided food assistance to security services not included in the
Policy Matrix. However, including the broader impact of the FCR program's policy
measures, it is likely that the poverty reduction impact was higher than the number of
people receiving food assistance.

A poverty analysis in the Program Document indicated that without measures to contain
the increase in the price of key food staples, the poverty headcount of rice consumers
alone could rise by at least 150,000, increasing the share of people below the poverty line
by an estimated three to four percentage points, in a matter of months. 7 Because the
tariff reduction policy cushioned the impact of high global food prices on the ability of
rice consumers to meet their food needs, the FCR program had a broader human
development impact than the measured impact on the number of people receiving food
assistance. The lower price of rice relative to what consumers would have had to pay
without the tariff reductions enhanced the ability of consumers to meet their food needs.
And quite possibly it prevented a portion of the 150,000 people vulnerable to higher
prices from falling below the poverty line, although the precise number would be difficult
to determine. Lactating mothers were among the key beneficiaries of the food assistance
programs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(Particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The FCR development policy operation did not include measures aimed at institutional
change or strengthening, given its crisis response nature. It is noted, however, that the
Government did make use of its new Integrated Financial Management Information
System to track expenditures for the food assistance programs of beneficiary government
agencies funded thanks to the fiscal space created by this operation--a positive
development in the Government's efforts to strengthen its crisis management capacity.
However, despite well identified budgetary allocations for each component of the food
assistance programs, there was no reporting on overall public expenditures on these
programs. It should also be noted that the grant complemented other operations in the
CAS to reduce poverty and expand domestic food production--the latter to be achieved
through a combination of agricultural investment projects in agricultural development,
road network expansion, and increased extension services--projects which are providing
support for institutional strengthening in these respective sectors.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

7
    Based on 2003/04 household survey data. The analysis excluded the impact of real growth between 2003
    and 2008. See World Bank Report No. 44082-SL, Sierra Leone: Poverty Diagnostic.


                                                    14
There are no major impacts that the ICR has not covered elsewhere.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

N.A.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcomes is moderate. Sierra Leone is an open economy that is
emerging from conflict. As such it is exposed to extraordinary endogenous and
exogenous risk factors that could further increase food prices and endanger the
sustainable provision of basic public services to vulnerable groups.

A further rise in food and petroleum prices during the last quarter of 2008, considered a
risk during the FCR program's appraisal, did not materialize. In fact, global food prices
have declined since 2008 but are still relatively high compared to pre-crisis levels.

The operation considered the possibility, which was realized (see section 2.1 above), that
the goal of redirecting resources to offset rising food prices would be made more difficult
in the event that revenues or grants fall significantly short of targets. This risk was
mitigated by the Government's manifested commitment to adhere to the already
established principle of protecting priority expenditures through reductions in less
essential spending and the fiscal space provided by the operation.

The operation also observed a risk that implementation capacity in the central ministries
and local councils may not be sufficient to ensure that targeted beneficiaries are served in
2008 at least as well as they had been in 2007, because of the natural replacement of
various key officials a result of the political transition in late 2007 and early 2008. This
risk was evident in the first quarter of 2008. As indicated above, however, the overall
implementation of the program was adequate with good progress towards program
targets, two of which were surpassed.

Finally, the design of the operation did not anticipate the impact of the global recession
that began to affect the country in late 2008 and throughout 2009. The country has,
however, remained fairly resilient with moderate growth, adequate macroeconomic
policies, and support from the international donor community including from the Bank's
development policy credit, GRGC-3.




                                            15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance was satisfactory during grant preparation and appraisal. The
preparation of the grant was based on relevant analytical work and drew upon lessons
from previous development policy operations. The operation fit into an overall program
of short-term and long-term interventions to avoid food shortages and reduce poverty in
Sierra Leone. During preparation, the Bank maintained a close relationship with the IMF
and budget support donors. Also, and as indicated above, the Bank responded rapidly (12
weeks) to the Government's request for assistance.
(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank supervised the FCR program as part of its broader program of policy dialogue
and budget support. This was a reasonable approach given the relatively small size of the
grant. The Bank prepared two ISRs on the FCR program ­ in March and June of 2009.
The ISR in March of 2009 rated the project's M&E unsatisfactory because, at that time,
the Government had not yet provided reports on progress in meeting development
indicators. As a result, the Bank rated the program's overall performance as moderately
satisfactory. Following the receipt of MOFED's report, the Bank upgraded the overall
performance rating to satisfactory based on: (i) MOFED's detailed tracking of grant
expenditures, (ii) its reporting on most of the key performance indicators, and (iii) the
expectation that MOFED would provide the missing information on the indicators and
respond to the Bank's other queries on the program's results during the preparation of the
ICR.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

A mixed rating of satisfactory for quality and entry and quality at supervision results in
an overall rating of satisfactory.




                                                  16
5.2 Borrower Performance

Note: According to the ICR Guidelines, if the Government and the implementing agency
are indistinguishable, as is the case for Development Policy Lending operations, then a
rating and justification is provided only for the overall Borrower.

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government showed a strong commitment to the FCR program, contributing to the
analytical work that underscored the need for policy actions. The analytical work
included the completion of a Poverty Diagnostic in June 2008 and a Core Welfare
Indicators Questionnaire, which addressed poverty and public service delivery issues in
key sectors that the FCR grant supported ­ education and health.

The Government produced three good, detailed implementation reports describing the
budget allocation among beneficiary agencies; grant expenditures by beneficiary sectors
through June 2009; and actual performance indicators in the Program Matrix, compared
to targets.

There were, however, two shortcomings in the Government's performance. First, it did
not produce regular reports monitoring the program's actual progress compared to
planned indicators, as stipulated in the Program Document--although the proposed
monthly frequency was in retrospect too ambitious. Second, MOFED did not respond to
the ICR team's requests for important information necessary for the evaluation of the
FCR program, particularly the outcome indicators for the number of beneficiaries in
hospitals and remand homes, until the issuance of the final December 2009 progress
report. In addition, it would have been useful to report on the total expenditures on the
programs to which the FCR grant contributed.


6. Lessons Learned
There are a number of lessons to be learned from this operation that may be applicable to
other crisis response operations:

·   It can be challenging to ensure the establishment of an effective monitoring and
    evaluation system (M&E) in the context of a crisis response operation. In the context
    of Sierra Leone, the Government and donors have a well established M&E
    framework to assess the impact of policy reforms supported by budget support
    provided by several donors. This framework operates around pre-established
    timetables and outcome indicators and it currently does not have the flexibility to
    respond to the need for a rapid crisis response. However, inclusion of the outcome
    indicators related to this operation in the broader multi-donor budget support M&E
    framework, could have facilitated more regular and complete reporting of results.
    This points to the need to introduce greater flexibility in the multi-donor budget


                                           17
    support M&E framework to allow for the inclusion of policy actions and outcome
    indicators addressing unforeseen shocks to preserve growth and poverty reduction's
    longer term objectives.
·   It would be preferable to use an already standing monitoring committee capable of
    delivering periodic progress reports rather than envisaging the creation of a new
    technical committee. Also, quarterly reports rather than monthly reports would have
    provided sufficient information without unduly stretching the government
    administration.
·   There were advantages gained from keeping the design of the operation simple and
    well focused on the Government priorities, e.g. tariff reductions and a narrowly
    defined action plan with well identified outcome indicators. This helped ensure
    adequate Government's response to the crisis given its limited capacities.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by
Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

Implementation report was delayed because of the slow reporting from the
beneficiary Ministries, Departments, and Agencies. All of the additional data requested
have now been provided in the final report. Bilateral meetings were arranged with
Ministry of Social Welfare, Defence, Police, Local Government Finance Department and
the Accountant General's Department to update the information gaps.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           18
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
 Douglas Addison          Senior Economist                       AFTP4    Team Leader
 Kathryn Suzanne Bach     Junior Professional Associate          AFTH2    Social Dev.
 Yusuf Bob Foday          Economist                              AFTP4    Economics
 Anna Victoria Gyllerup   Operations Officer                     AFTRL    M&E
 Mirey Ovadiya            Senior Operations Officer              AFTH2    Social dev.
 Manush Hristov           Senior Council                         LEGAF    Legal
John Nyaga                Sr Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM    Fiduciary
Trichur Balakrishnan      Lead Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM    Fiduciary
F. Tsri Apronti           Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC    Procurement
Tidiane Toure             Lead Procurement Specialist            AFTPC    Procurement
Rajiv Sondhi              Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC    Loan Accounting
Suzanne Morris            Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC    Loan Accounting
Supervision
Douglas Addison           Senior Economist                       AFTP4    Team Leader
Yusuf Bob Foday           Economist                              AFTP4    Economics
Kathryn Suzanne Bach      Junior Professional Associate          AFTH2    Social Development
Mirey Ovadiya             Senior Operations Officer              AFTH2    Social Development



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                                                      USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY09                                    3.08                                0.00
Total:                                  3.08                                0.00
Supervision/ICR                          0.0                                2.99
Total:                                   0.0                                2.99
Through December 1, 2009. Some consultancy claims outstanding.




                                            19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
  (if any)




                                      20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)




                                   21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Implementation report was delayed because of the slow reporting from the
beneficiary MDAs. All of the additional data requested have now been provided in
the final report. Bilateral meetings were arranged with Ministry of Social Welfare,
Defence, Police, Local Government Finance Department and the Accountant
General's Department to update the information gaps.




                                         22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    23
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Program Preparation and Appraisal

World Bank, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, Country Department, West
Africa, Africa Region, World Bank, Food Crisis Response Trust Fund, Program
Document for a Proposed Grant in the Amount of US$ 3 Million, to the Government of
Sierra Leone for a Food Crisis Response Development Policy Grant, July 12, 2008.

World Bank, Food Crisis Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Food Crisis Development Policy
Grant) between Sierra Leone and the International Development Association (acting as
trustee for the Food Crisis Response Trust Fund), August 18, 2008.

Informal email exchange among Bank staff concerning the design of the program and
processing steps (various dates, May ­ July 2008).

Program Implementation

Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Sierra Leone, Food Crisis Trust Fund
(Grant), Implementation Report, April 2009.

Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Sierra Leone, Food Crisis Trust Fund
(Grant), Implementation Report, June 2009.

World Bank, "Implementation Status Report for Development Policy Operation, Sierra
Leone, SL-DPL-Food Crisis Response (Program ID: P113219-Trust Fund No.
TF92619)," March 24, 2009.

World Bank, "Implementation Status Report for Development Policy Operation, Sierra
Leone, SL-DPL-Food Crisis Response (Program ID: P113219-Trust Fund No.
TF92619)," June 12, 2009.

Other Documentation on Development Strategy, Policy, and Public Sector
Management and Related Investment Projects

World Bank, Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the Amount of US$ 3.5
Million to the Republic of Sierra Leone for a Second Public Management Support
Project, November 18, 2004.

World Bank, Country Department 10, Africa Region, Country Assistance Strategy for the
Republic of Sierra Leone for the Period 2006-2009, May 5, 2005.

World Bank, Sustainable Development Department, West Africa 1, Project Appraisal
Document for the Rural and Private Sector Development Project, April 19, 2007.




                                         24
World Bank, Human Development Sector 2, Country Department 2, West Africa Region,
Food Crisis Response Trust Fund, Project Paper for a Proposed Grant in the Amount of
US$ 4 million to the Republic of Sierra Leone, July 29, 2008.

World Bank, "Doing Business 2009: Sierra Leone Makes Key Improvements in
Business Reform," September 10, 2008.

World Bank, Sierra Leone Country Brief (updated as of March 2009).

World Bank, "Sierra Leone Client Survey Shows Governance and Government
Effectiveness as Key Priorities," May 11, 2009.




                                         25
Country Map




    26
