CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 814 GM
Project Agreement
(Rural and Urban Enterprises Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GAMBIA COMMERCIAL AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated May 26, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 814 GM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and GAMBIA
COMMERCIAL AND DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called GCDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of The Gambia (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million dollars ($3,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that GCDB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and GCDB, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to GCDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS GCDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of GCDB
Section 2.01. (a) GCDB shall carry out Parts A, B and C (1)
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with


﻿-2-
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices
and shall conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with the
Charter and Statement of Policy.
(b) GCDB shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation to ensure the availability of adequate legal services to
GCDB, including full-time employment of a suitably qualified and
experienced lawyer as and when required.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, GCDB shall submit
Sub-loans or Investments to the Association for approval or for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, GCDB
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satis-
factory to the Association, together with: (i) a description of
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment
Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment, including the
schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan, or of repayment to the
Borrower of the amount to be used for the Investment; (iii) a
description of the arrangements GCDB has made for ensuring the
provision of technical assistance to the Investment Enterprise
on an ongoing basis; (iv) a calculation of the internal financial
rate of return and, in cases of import substitution, an evaluation
of the economic rate of return in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Association; and (v) such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by GCDB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Association and GCDB shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented to
the Association on or before December 31, 1980.


﻿-3-
(e) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Association and GCDB shall otherwise agre-. ii) shall not be less
d           than two nor more than fifteen years from tac date of approval by
the Association of the Sub-loan, or in the case of a free-limit
Sub-loan, of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account in respect thereof; and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(f) GCDB shall transmit to the Association, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by GCDB in
respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2,03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
required for Part B of the Project shall be procured pursuant to
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) GCDB shall obtain the Association's approval of the
design, method of construction, financing plan and proposed
procurement procedures for its office building (Part B of the
Project) prior to inviting bids for its constructAon.
Section 2.04. (a) GCDB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Part B of
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by GCDB to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, GCDB
shall cause all goods and services for Part B of the Project
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) GCDB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules in connection with Parts B and C (1) of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) GCDB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to iden-
tify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower for Parts B and C (1)
of the Project, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without   mitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction site for Part B of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Parts A, B and C (1) of the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it, the Investment Enterprises, Investment Projects and Sub-loans
and Investments.
(c) GCDB shall: (i) enable the Association's representatives
to examine all sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of
GCDB; (ii) furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of GCDB and its subsid-
iaries; and (iii) enable the Association0s representatives to
examine any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. GCDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GCDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) GCDB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) GCDB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by GCDB of its obligations under this
Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) GCDB shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Association and of GCDB, to comply with its


﻿-5-
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and to achieve the purposes of the Project.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, GCDB under-
takes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, any
Sub-loan or Investment will be made on terms whereby GCDB shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and GCDB, including the right of
GCDB to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan or Investment shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them, and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain, where practicable, with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice, and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan or Investment to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Association or GCDB
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the
Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with GCDB.
Section 2.09. GCDB shall duly perform all its obligations in
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at


﻿-6-
the disposal of GCDB by the Borrower or its agencies or others for
relending, investment or management. GCDB shall promptly inform
the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.10. If GCDB establishes or acquires any subsidiary,
GCDB shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of GCDB hereunder to the extent to which such obliga-
tions shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obliga-
tions were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 2.11. (a) GCDB shall use in its lending operations
standard forms of loan agreement and lease agreement satisfactory
in form and substance to the Association. In particular, GCDB
shall adopt, by September 30, 1978, or such later date as the
Association may accept, a standard loan agreement satisfactory to
the Association for purposes of its general loan operations
financed out of resources of the Development Fund.
(b) GCDB shall at all times adequately supervise its loan
portfolio in accordance with standards for supervision acceptable
to the Association.
Section 2.12. GCDB shall make no change in its Statement of
Policy without the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 2.13. Except as the Association and GCDB shall other-
wise agree, GCDB: (a) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (b) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on operations
and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. GCDB shall maintain records adequate to rec-
ord the progress of the Project and of each Investment ProjecL
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of GCDB.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. GCDB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of GCDB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 3.03. GCDB represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any assets of GCDB or any subsidiary
as security for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported
or disclosed in writing by GCDB to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GCDB shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 3.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
GCDB's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 3.05. GCDB shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of GCDB which, in the
judgment of the Association, would affect materially and adversely
GCDB's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 3.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Association and GCDB, GCDB shall not incur or permit any
subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of GCDB and all its subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would be greater than four times the
consolidated capital and surplus of GCDB and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by GCDB or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;


﻿-8-
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of Dalasis, debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by GCDB for the purposes of servic-
ing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of GCDB and all its subsidaries"
means the total amount of debt of GCDB and its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by GCDB to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to GCDB or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of GCDB and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of GCDB and its subsidiaries
after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity
interests of GCDB in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in GCDB
or any other subidiary.
Section 3.07. GCDB shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Dalasis) used in its lending and bor-
rowing operations.
Section 3.08. The Association and GCDB shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of GCDB and its subsidiaries.
Section 3.09. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, all Sub-loans shall bear interest at the rate of not less
than 11% per annum.
(b) All amounts lent to GCDB under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and all payments to GCDB from Investment Enterprises in
respect of Sub-loans, as well as the proceeds of the sale by GCDB,


﻿-9-
in whole or in part, of any Investment, shall be credited to
GCDB's Development Fund and shall be utilized exclusively for the
purpose of providing medium and long-term development finance.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of GCDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
GCDB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For GCDB:
Gambia Commercial and
Development Bank
P.O. Box 666
Banjul
The Republic of The Gambia
Cable address:                     Telex:
COMDEVBANK                         GV 221
Banjul
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of GCDB may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as its Manag-
ing Director shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. GCDB shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of GCDB,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by GCDB pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through thet
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GAMBIA COMMERCIAL AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
By Is/ Lamin Kiti Jabang
Authorized Representative


