Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19303
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 3614-UA
June 3, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Country Unit: Ukraine and Belarus
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Calendar           Exchange Rate
Year             (end of period)
(UAH/US$)
1992                 0.0064
1993                 0.126
1994                 1.042
1995                 1.794
1996                 1.889
1997                 1.889
1998                 3.427
1999*                4.410
1/ In September 1996, the official currency of Ukraine was converted from the Karbovonets (Krb) to the Hryvnia (UAH), at a
rate of 100,000 to 1.
* World Bank and IMF forecasts.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC              Anti-Monopoly Committee
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CEM              Country Economic Memorandum
COM              Cabinet of Ministers
EDAL             Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EPS              Electronic Payment System
Goskomstat       State Committee for Statistics
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
ID APL           Institutional Development Adaptable Program Loan
IFC              International Finance Corporation
IMF              International Monetary Fund
LAN              local area network
MOE              Ministry of Economy
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MOS              Ministry of Statistics
NAUDEI           National Agency of Ukraine for
Development and European Integration
NAURD            National Agency of Ukraine for Reconstruction
and Development
NBU              National Bank of Ukraine
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PTL              Program Team Leader
SCED             State Committee on Entrepreneurship Development
SPF              State Property Fund
STA              State Tax Administration
STI              State Tax Inspectorate
TTL              Task Team Leader
UAH              Ukratnian Hryvnia
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
UKRAINIAN FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Paul Siegelbaum
Sector Leader:     Hafez Ghanem
Teamn Leader:      Rama Chandran



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 3614-UA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..........................................................i
I.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................................      1
A. Project Objectives ..........................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .........................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................5
D. Project Sustainability ..........................................................7
E. Bank Performance .........................................................8
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................8
H. Future Operations ........................................................9
I. Key Lessons Learned ................................................9
II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                    ..11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans                    ..12
Table 3: Project Timetable                   ..12
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual .13
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation    .                    .13
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                ..13
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                 ..13
Table 8A: Project Costs ...............................................                         14
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................................... 14
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................ 14
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ............................................... 15
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements               .       ............................ 15
Table 12:  Bank Resources -Staff Inputs                  ................................. 15
Table 13:  Bank Resources -- Missions                ..                     .............................. 16
III. APPENDICES
1. Aide Memoire of Final Mission ................................ 17
2. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ................................                          23
3. Map IBRD 27828R ................................                                             45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 3614-UA
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Institution Building
Loan (IBL) to Ukraine, for which loan number 3614-UA in the amount of US$27 million
was approved on June 8, 1993, and made effective on August 11, 1993. This ICR
evaluates the implementation experience of this loan, the World Bank's first to Ukraine.
Loan closing was postponed three times before it officially closed on
April 1, 1999, three years and three months after the original closing date of
December 1, 1996. Final disbursement took place on April 20, 1999, at which time a
balance of US$68,817.23 was canceled. Cofinancing in the amount of $111,000 was
provided by UNDP.
Preparation of the ICR, begun during the final supervision mission from October
12- 23, 1999, was managed by Rama Chandran, Task Team Leader (TTL), with inputs
from Maxim Ljubinsky (Project Officer in Kiev), Ali Hashim (Treasury component),
Sandra Bloemenkamp (Task Manager 1993-95) and Lilia Burunciuc (Task Manager
1996-97). The report utilizes materials from the project files and interviews with the
project management team. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
submitting project evaluations from the Anti-Monopoly Committee, the National Agency
of Ukraine for Development and European Integration, the National Bank of Ukraine,
and the State Committee on Statistics (attached as appendices). The ICR benefited from
valuable comments provided by Dusan Vujovic (Program Team Leader), Lilia Burunciuc
(Ukraine, Country Unit), and Paul Siegelbaum (Country Director, Ukraine and Belarus).
The ICR was reviewed by Pervaiz Rashid, Lead Specialist at ECSPE.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 3614-UA
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Formal contacts between Ukraine and the World Bank was initiated during a
Bank mission in January 1992, a few months after Ukraine's declaration of independence
from the former Soviet Union. In September 1992, Ukraine joined the IBRD. The
Institution Building Loan (IBL), approved in June 1993, was the Bank's first lending
operation in that country. There was no Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time
of IBL's approval, but a country economic memorandum (Report No. 11 029-UA) was
distributed to the Board a week prior to consideration of the IBL.
Project Objectives
2.    The IBL was designed to assist the Government to implement economic reforms
and to strengthen the institutions essential to the transition to a market economy.
3.    The project consisted of three components, Enterprise Sector Reform, Financial
Sector Reform, and Public Economic and Financial Management Reform. The original
programs were focussed on technical assistance for the implementation of reforms which
would simultaneously build capacity to manage the reforms essential for efficient
operation of a market economy through institutional building programs for the following
areas:
* Enterprise Sector Reform: (a) implementation of small enterprise privatization and
regulatory reform in selected cities; (b) pilot privatization of medium- and large-scale
enterprises; (c) national publicity campaign about privatization; and (d) initiation of a
demonopolization program.
* Financial Sector Reform: (a) modernization of the payments system; (b) accounting
reform for financial institutions; and (c) institutional strengthening of banks.
* Public Economic and Financial Management Reform: (a) establishment of a
treasury system; (b) modernization of tax administration; (c) modernization of the
statistical system; (d) strengthening economic analysis capacity of the Ministry of
Economy; and (e) support to a project implementation unit for the IBL.



- ii -
4.    The project objectives were clear, though somewhat ambitious. Selection of these
components was appropriate at the time of the design of the project in view of the urgent
need to build capacity in these sectors.
5.    The IBL was launched in a very challenging environment given the fact that the
political consensus on economic reformn within the country needed to be developed. At
the same time, the project objectives were broad and flexible enough to respond to
Ukraine's evolving priorities. Consequently, the project was restructured in 1995-96
within the framework of the original objectives to reflect the Government's revised needs
and priorities. Following the restructuring in 1995-96, the focus of investments shifted to
building up the individual institutions through the provision of training, and technical
assi stance, which aimed at the development of information technology systems as well as
building capacity to manage economic reforms. The revised components consisted of the
following:
* Enterprise Sector Reform: (a) development of a computerization strategy for the
State Property Fund (SPF); (b) training for the SPF; (c) pilot demonopolization and
development of a demonopolization strategy; (d) training for the Anti-Monopoly
Committee (AMC); and (e) computerization of the AMC.
o Financial Sector Reform: modernization of the payments system.
* Public Economic and Financial ManagementReform: (a) establishment of a
treasury system; (b) pilot modernization of tax administration; (c) computerization of
the Ministry of Statistics (MOS) and training for MOS staff; (d) development of a
computerization strategy for the Ministry of Economy (MOE) and training for MOE
staff; (e) capacity-building of the National agency of Ukraine for Development and
European Integration (NAUDEI) and Cabinet of Ministers to manage external
financial resources; (f) computerization of Ministry of Finance (MOF) and training
for MOF staff; (g) training of the SCED; and (h) support to a project implementation
unit for the project.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.  The implementation of the IBL faced initial delays which were largely due to weak
institutions, lack of consensus on policy approaches and the country's inexperience in
managing Bank-financed projects. The conditions for project implementation improved
by 1995 as the Government had adopted a comprehensive stabilization and economic
reform program at the end of 1994 and over time the executing agencies had increased
their capacity to implement the IBL.
7.  In general, the IBL successfully initiated the strengthening of institutions essential
to the efficient operation of a market economy. All activities, with the exception of the
computerization of the SPF, were implemented. Additional investments would be needed
in these areas in order to sustain the momentum for institutional development. The
planned Bank investments (e.g., Treasury Systems Project, ID APL for Goskomstat and
STA) and initiatives by individual agencies, are likely to maintain this momentum. A



- iii -
key accomplishment of the project was specifically in changing the way these agencies
think and do business, and this process is likely to be sustained as well. Overall, both the
Borrower and the Bank performed satisfactorily. The IBL has been rated "Satisfactory"
on both Development Objectives and Institutional Progress.
8.  The outcome of the project was satisfactory due to the positive overall impact of
the project, which goes well beyond the individual components. All the agencies
involved in the IBL have changed the way they do business, train staff, build capacity to
design and implement policies, and reinvent their own organizations. The Bank has
learned a great deal about Ukraine, as has Ukraine about the Bank, allowing it to prepare
follow-up institution-building and other operations that would build on the achievements
and lessons learnt from the project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.  Although the implementation of the IBL got off to a slow start and the loan closing
date was extended three times, it had extremely positive outcomes. The IBL has helped
to establish a broad constituency for economic reform, build up significant
implementation capacity within the Government, and demonstrate the importance of
institution building using a flexible approach. In retrospect, the original programs in the
IBL may have been overly ambitious. However, the limited and focussed programs after
its restructuring played an important role in engaging the Borrower.
10. Government ownership ofthe project is an important factor in institutional
development projects. The IBL ambitiously set out to implement extensive reforms in
enterprise, financial, and the public sectors. The mix of two objectives--implementing
economic reforms and building institutions--and the absence of a clear consensus for
economic reform within the government hampered the implementation during the initial
two years or so. Implementation was slow and disbursement levels were at a low (14
percent of loan disbursed by end FY 1996) until the Government adopted a
comprehensive structural reform program and restructured the project. These actions
enhanced the Government's commitment to the project.
11. Because of the lack of experience with reforms and Bank projects, the Borrower
was overwhelmed with the breadth, comprehensiveness and complexity of the project.
The more focussed and limited programs included in the IBL following its restructuring
serves as an important lesson for institutional development. Limited and focussed
programs, particularly pilot programs, are effective tools to launch reforms in politically
sensitive areas. Through such focussed programs, the IBL has created a core of mid-level
public officials committed to reform.
12. Intensive supervision by experienced Bank staff is a key factor for IBL projects in
new member countries. This was evidenced during the latter stages of the project. Close
monitoring and supervision by the Bank's local staff was also a factor in achieving
implementation progress. Flexibility in project design, and redesign during
implementation through cancellation of components that were moribund and allocation of
resources to agencies which were proactive helped to maximize the project's positive
impact in an evolving country environment.



- iv -
13. The relatively short shelf life of information technology and other computer
systems and the relatively long time required to complete the bidding process was
frustrating to the borrower. The delay in procurement was because of the long learning
curve in comprehending and internalizing transparent and open bidding procedures. This
was a source of significant dissatisfaction with many of the agencies under the IBL.
14. The deep-seated cultural and political bias in Ukraine against foreign consultants
presents a significant issue in all Bank-financed projects. Although this bias has been
partly overcome through implementation of the project, there is a fundamental distrust of
foreign advice and its value. This often leads to contractual disputes and a slowing down
in project implementation.
15. Ideally, direct assistance to and communication with the beneficiary, should be the
preferred choice for effective project implementation. This was not possible during the
implementation of the IBL because of lack of capacity in the various institutions of the
project. Consequently, a centralized Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the Ministry
of Economy was chosen to coordinate the implementation. This arrangement slowed
down implementation due to poor communication between the PIU and the beneficiary
agencies in the IBL.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN
Loan No. 3614-UA
I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives
1.  In 1993, the World Bank approved and began to implement its first lending
operation in Ukraine based on the Government's support of transition to a market-based
economy. This first lending operation, the Institution Building Loan (IBL), would
provide critically-needed technical assistance to the Government of Ukraine to erect the
basic institutions of a market economy while simultaneously building the capacity of the
Government to manage the transition. By a decision of the Hard Currency Credit
Council in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Government certified its desire to borrow from
the Bank for the objectives of the IBL: to support the implementation of economic
reforms and to strengthen institutions essential to the efficient operation of a market
economy. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ukraine had not been prepared by the
time of the IBL's approval in June 1993. However, Ukraine: Country Economic
Memorandum (Report No. 11 029-UA) was distributed one week prior to the presentation
of IBL to the Board.
2.   The IBL addressed one of the major objectives of the Bank's strategy at that time,
the initiation of systemic reforms, which was reflected in the project's three components:
Enterprise Sector Reform, Financial Sector Reform, and Reform of Public Economic and
Financial Management. The original programs were focussed on technical assistance for
the implementation of reforms that would simultaneously build capacity to manage the
reforms within the following institutions.
*  Enterprise Sector Reform: (a) implementation of small enterprise privatization and
regulatory reform in selected cities; (b) pilot privatization of medium- and large-scale
enterprises; (c) national publicity campaign about privatization; and (d) initiation of a
demonopolization program.
* Financial Sector Reform: (a) modernization of the payments system; (b) accounting reform
for financial institutions; and (c) institutional strengthening of banks.
*  Public Economic and Financial Management Reform: (a) establishment of a treasury
system; (b) modernization of tax administration; (c) modernization of the statistical system;
(d) strengthening economic analysis capacity of the Ministry of Economy; and (e) support to
a project implementation unit for the IBL.



3.  The IBL was a demanding project for the Government to implement since it was
Ukraine's first experience with a Bank-financed project. The volatile policy environment
in which the project had its beginnings and the lack of internal consensus for economic
reforms within the Government complicated matters. Further adding to the complexity,
was that there were eight executing agencies for the various components in addition to
several layers of beneficiaries. Implementation required coordination across many
Government departments and agencies, and superior management. The lack of
implementation capacity also contributed to slow implementation.
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives
4.   Overall, the IBL was moderately successful in achieving both its objectives of
assisting the Government of Ukraine to implement economic reforms and of
strengthening institutions essential to the transition to a market economy. IBL's specific
achievements are detailed in this section.
Enterprise Reform Component
5.  Privatization. The Government established the SPF in the fall of 1991 when they
also adopted a number of fundamental laws that formed the legal foundations for
privatization in Ukraine. Prior to its restructuring, the IBL included three distinct
privatization programs that aimed simultaneously at implementing economic reforms and
building the technical capacity of the SPF to manage the privatization process. They
were: small enterprise privatization and regulatory reform in selected cities and oblasts,
pilot privatization of medium and large enterprises, and a national public information
campaign on privatization.
6.  In 1995, all three of these programs were cut out of the IBL given either alternative
sources of financing (for the national public information campaign and small-scale
privatization) or changed priorities of the Government (such as the initiation of a mass
privatization program). Given these developments, IBL assistance was refocused to
provide direct institution-building support to the SPF, through which the SPF received
financing for office equipment, training in privatization, and a computerization strategy.
The computerization strategy, developed by Consultants, was not implemented due to the
SPF's later dissatisfaction with the specifications of the bidding documents. The SPF
asserted that the specifications no longer met their needs. However, the Bank did not
agree with this conclusion, and the SPF ultimately cancelled the tender.
7.   Despite the failure to implement the computerization strategy and the cancellation
of the original privatization programs in 1995, this sub-component achieved considerable
progress in strengthening the SPF as an institution and in implementing reforms. The
IBL played a significant role in helping to launch the privatization program in Ukraine
and built a foundation for other Bank assistance. For example, the Enterprise
Development Adjustment Loans (I and II), approved in FY1996 and FY1998
respectively, deepened support to Ukraine in privatization and post-privatization. The
original activities in this sub-component may have been ambitious given the absence of a
consensus for reform. This experience demonstrated important lessons about Ukraine for
the Bank. For example, the deep-seated reluctance to borrow for technical assistance; the



- 3 -
difficulty in implementing reform programs without a clear mandate from the
government for reform; and the potential complications in financing information
technology systems given the relatively short shelf life of information technology
products and the long lead time in procurement.
8.  Demonopolization. The IBL's demonopolization efforts centered around
strengthening the Anti Monopoly Commission (AMC), which was created in September
1992, providing assistance in initiating a program to break up some of the largest
monopoly enterprises in Ukraine, and preventing practices aimed at restricting
competition. Under IBL, the central office staff of the AMC received training and
technical assistance to demonopolize a large-scale breadmaking enterprise, based on
which a generally-applicable demonopolization methodology was developed. Although
the breadmaking enterprise, Volin Hlyb, was ultimately demonopolized, political
opposition from vested interests had slowed down the implementation of the program and
led to the extension of the consulting services contract. In addition to technical assistance
and training, AMC was computerized, which increased the efficiency of AMC
operations, improved record management and bookkeeping, and accelerated case and
data processing. The IBL's demonopolization program made substantial progress in
initiating a demonopolization program as well as in strengthening the AMC.
Financial Sector Reform
9.  The Financial Sector Reform component originally set out to introduce major
reforms in the sector through modernizing the payments system, overhauling the
accounting system of financial institutions, and overall institutional strengthening of
commercial banks. However, this component was eliminated from the IBL in early 1996
based on the lack of implementation progress and the Government's perception that the
National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) could finance the modernization of the payment system
from its own resources. However, the Government reversed its position on the latter and
requested the reintroduction of the original program to modernize the payments system.
With technical assistance and equipment provided by IBL, the NBU enhanced an
electronic payment system (EPS), upon which the NBU has continued to build. This
subcomponent successfully achieved its objectives, further building the institutional
capacity of the NBU and at the same time establishing a market-oriented payments
system.
Reform of Public Economic and Financial Management
10. Treasury System. The IBL originally intended to finance technical assistance for
the functional analysis of a treasury system, in addition to hardware and software to
establish an interim system. Consultants completed the functional analysis and issued bid
documents for the procurement of hardware and software, however, a newly appointed
head of the treasury department wanted to modify the bid documents to include hardware
only. The software would be developed in-house. This decision led to an impasse with
the Consultants and resulted in the ultimate cancellation of the bid documents, the
contract with the Consultants, and the sub-component in 1996.



- 4 -
11. In its first years, the treasury department was a growing but weak institution which
was severely understaffed, suffered from frequent changes in management, and had
limited institutional capacity, particularly to fully value the work of the consultants.
These institutional weaknesses were eventually overcome, however, and although the
sub-component suffered a setback following the contract cancellation, the treasury
continued to develop the system using its own resources. In 1997, IBL resumed support
to the treasury department with additional procurements of hardware and technical
assistance to elaborate drafts of legislative and normative acts as well as to analyze the
treasury department's functional and organization structure. There was also significant
collaboration with the IMF, the Bank and the Treasury. The investments into the
Treasury department established the basis for the Treasury Systems Project, which was
approved by the Bank in 1998. In addition, equipment was provided to the MOF for a
network to link several departments in the MOF with the treasury department. IBL thus
achieved significant progress in introducing and initiating a functional and automated
treasury system in Ukraine.
12. Tax Administration. The State Tax Administration (STA) implemented the roll-
out of an IMF-financed pilot in 14 tax offices throughout Kiev using IBL-financed
technical assistance and equipment. The original pilot upgraded and modernized the
operations of the local tax office in Darnitsa rayon, city of Kyiv. Under the pilot, the
administrative structure of the office was reformed, new procedures for assessment,
collection enforcement and auditing introduced, and information technology integrated
into its operations. Although the pilot is unlikely to be replicated and the hardware
configured and software developed under the project, its experience established an
important foundation for future investments into modernizing and improving itself is
unlikely to be replicated beyond IBL, its impact goes well beyond the pilot. The STA
improved its administrative and management skills base with the introduction of new
processes, such as analyzing and re-engineering its business procedures in administering
taxes, designing functional and structural improvements, optimizing human resources,
assessing risk, contingency planning and using international advisory services. Although
the pilot is unlikely to be replicated and the hardware configured and software developed
under the project, its experience established an important foundation for future
investments into modernizing and improving tax administration in Ukraine. The STA
has begun the preparation of programs for potential financing under the Institution
Development Adaptable Program Lending (ID APL). This sub-component achieved
significant progress in building the STA's capacity even though it was only partially
successful in achieving the objective of fundamentally transforming tax administration in
Ukraine. There was also some collaboration with the IMF during the earlier stages of the
IBL. This tapered off towards the latter stages of the project.
13. The System of Statistics. Under IBL, the State Committee for Statistics (or
Goskomstat, formerly the Ministry of Statistics) received technical assistance, equipment,
and computer training to elaborate and implement a new information system to
modernize its statistical system, in addition to receiving equipment to improve the
telephone system and the printing facilities. Building on the foundations of reform
established by IBL and in accordance with a 1997 Presidential decree, implementation of
a National Program on International Standards of Statistics began in 1998 which would
begin the process of converting Ukraine's statistical system to international standards.



Moreover, Goskomstat is currently preparing future programs for potential financing
under ID APL. This sub-component was partially successful in introducing institutional
changes to and restructuring the statistical system in Ukraine.
14. Economic Analysis and Policy Formulation. Since the Ministry of Economy
(MOE) was given a lead role in spearheading the country's economic reform effort, the
IBL was designed to provide technical assistance and training to aid this process.
Although MOE did not receive technical assistance for economic policy formulation, it
did benefit from an extensive staff training program in economic analysis and policy
formulation, in addition to the implementation of an integrated computer system.
However, the success of the training program has been reduced by a high turnover of
IBL-trained staff: by 1998, about 30 percent of those trained under IBL had left the
MOE. Thus, this sub-component was only partially successful in achieving its goal of
building capacity in economic analysis and policy fortnulation within MOE.
15. External Financial Resource Management. This sub-component, implemented
jointly with UNDP, provided technical assistance, training, and equipment, separately to
the Cabinet of Ministers (COM) and the National Agency for Development and European
Integration (NAUDEI). Both entities have benefited from training as well as the
computerization of their operations. Internal sources within the Bank report an improved
dialogue with NAUDEI. This sub-component was successful in strengthening the
capacity of COM and NAUDEI to manage external resources.
16. Project Implementation Unit. Technical assistance, training, and equipment were
allocated in the IBL to coordinate project implementation as well as to build capacity in
the Cabinet of Ministers to and later, the Ministry of Economy, to facilitate future World
Bank lending. The performance of the PIU was mixed, particularly given the difficulty in
maintaining clear lines of communication with the IBL executing agencies, which
mitigated against timely and effective project implementation. Overall, this sub-
component achieved some progress in meeting its objectives, particularly in building
capacity for future Bank lending as demonstrated by the contribution of former IBL PIU
staff to other Bank projects.
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17. Between project effectiveness in August 1993 and the initiation of a comprehensive
stabilization and structural reform program by the Government at the end of 1994, there
was very little implementation progress in IBL (little over 10 percent of the loan was
disbursed against 20 percent of estimated disbursements). Until this time, the IBL had
been used mainly to facilitate the policy dialogue with mid-level government officials,
and overall, there was neither the political commitment nor will to implement reforms.
Following the introduction of the Government's reform program at the end of 1994,
however, the Bank's dialogue with its IBL counterparts dramatically improved and
facilitated an effective process in project restructuring. There were many factors not
subject to Government control which affected project implementation, most of which
were related to their limited experience in implementing reforms.



- 6 -
Factors Not Subject to Government's Control
18. Upheaval of the Transition Period. Project implementation was complicated by
the rapidly changing social, political, and economic landscape in Ukraine in the first few
years of its transition, particularly as many of the original activities became less relevant
during implementation, leading to the cancellation or addition of some activities and the
restructuring of others.
19. Reorientation to Independent Nation. The psychological effect stemming from
Ukraine's newly gained status as an independent nation cannot be underestimated as a
factor in implementation delays, particularly given the nature of its previous status under
the former system. Ukraine, as with all the former republics of the Soviet Union, used to
be rewarded for executing orders from the center, not by crafting its own policies. The
newly-gained freedom to govern itself, as well as the reorientation in thinking, although
heady at times, was very demanding at other times.
20. Weak Implementation Capacity. IBL, as the first Bank operation in Ukraine, was
the Government's first meaningful experience with the World Bank. This was a
significant factor contributing to implementation delays not only because of the
Ukrainians' nescience vis-a-vis Bank's procedures (particularly procurement), but also in
terms of its lack of experience in communicating and working with the Bank as an
institution.
21. Inexperience with Competitive Procurement and Contract Management. IBL
was the government's first exposure to the concept of competitive procurement and
contract management. Given the radically different concepts behind selecting and
managing contractors and suppliers in the past, learning the process of open, transparent
and cost effective public procurement was a long exercise which will likely continue with
other Bank projects.
22. Multiple Changes in Project Management. During the implementation of the IBL,
both Bank management and the heads of some of the executing agencies changed several
times. This was also a contributing factor in slowing down implementation.
23. Ambitious Project Design. Although there were only three components under the
project, each component contained within it multiple activities involving far-reaching
policy reforms. Given that there was no institutional experience with Bank projects, the
complex project design significantly contributed to delays in jump-starting
implementation.
24. Competing Assistancefrom other Donors. Some of the activities under the loan
were delayed and ultimately abandoned after other donors provided grant financing in the
same area.
Factors Generally Subject to Government's Control
25. Unfocused Policy Environment. The unfocused policy environment in Ukraine
adversely effected the implementation of the majority of IBL's programs until the end of



1994, when the Government adopted a comprehensive structural and economic reform
program. The unfocused policy environment translated into unclear commitment to the
project in the first years of IBL implementation.
26. Inefficient Project Management Structure. During project design, the First
Deputy Minister of Economy was delegated overall responsibility for project
implementation, with responsibility of day-to-day project administration given to the
PIU, which was originally established within Cabinet of Ministers. Under this
organizational structure, however, the PIU lacked the authority to manage the project
because it had to receive approvals from the Minister of Economy for standard
documentation. Until the PIU was transferred to the Ministry of Economy in 1995, this
arrangement slowed down project implementation.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control
27. Lack of Interagency Collaboration and Cooperation. The project provided direct
assistance to ten government entities, in addition to providing indirect assistance to many
others. A coordination council was created to take executive decisions on the loan.
Given this complex landscape of project beneficiaries, diligent attempts at interagency
collaboration would have been necessary to ensure smooth implementation. The problem
was particularly pronounced vis-a-vis communication between the PIU and the
beneficiary entities, and even despite the efforts of the Bank's resident mission to help in
coordination.
D.  Project Sustainability
28. Since the IBL provided only the basic initial investment, for the organizations
included in the project, additional investments are needed to maintain the momentum of
institution building. This process has already begun with other Bank loans (e.g.,
privatization, treasury system, tax administration, statistical system, etc.) or with the
organization's own initiative (e.g., payments system). Furthermore, given the
fundamental change the IBL-supported agencies have undergone in the way they think
and do business, the IBL investments are likely to be sustained.
29. Enterprise Reform Component. The project's support to the SPF is being
supplemented by EDAL I and EDAL II and thus is likely to be sustained. The
sustainability of investments into the AMC, however, is uncertain given the political
opposition to demonopolization. However, in view of the AMC's demonstrated
commitment to public education in demonopolization, if the resources became available,
the AMC could make significant progress in this area and sustain IBL investments.
30. Financial Sector Reform. Given the momentum generated by the IBL in
enhancing the NBU's payments system, this sub-component is highly likely to be
sustained.
31. Public Sector Economic and Financial Management. The investments into the
treasury department, STA, Goskomstat, MOE, and NAUDEI. Additionally, the
investments into the PIU are also likely to be sustained given that IBL PIU staff have



-8 -
already contributed to the preparation of other Bank-financed activities, such as the
Treasury Systems Project.
E.  Bank Performance
32. The Bank management team performed well in sustaining the IBL given the
turbulent and uncertain political setting under which the project was prepared and
implemented. Although not all the programs prepared under the IBL were ultimately
implemented, the fact that some of these prepared prograrns were either financed by other
donors or included as part of other Bank loans is a statement in praise of the Bank
preparation team. This is remarkable since the IBL was prepared in a short time and in
the same year, in which the Bank sent its first mission to Ukraine (January 1992).
33. The supervision effort of the IBL also deserves recognition. Implementation
assistance for the IBL, particularly in the early transition period, was extremely difficult
given the turbulent reform environment and the inexperience of the Borrower not only
with the Bank, but with standard business practices of the commercial world. The
patience and time devoted to supervision, particularly after the restructuring was
completed in 1996, is commendable. The active participation of a project officer in the
Kiev Resident Mission also significantly contributed to the quality of Bank supervision.
34.  One factor that negates to some extent an otherwise estimable supervision effort
was the fact that project management changed five times during the life of IBL. This was
a contributing factor to delays in decision making and responsiveness to the Client's
requests.
F.  Borrower Performance
35. Borrower performance was varied, depending on the capacity of various executing
agencies. In general the executing agencies performed well, given their lack of
experience with external assistance, reform, and Bank projects. There was a very steep
leaming curve during the initial period of two years in trying to understand the nuances
of a market economy, the requirements of transparency in public procurement, building
of internal consensus on reform etc.,. The learning curve began to flatten during the later
stages of the project and this was demonstrated by improved performance, more in some
agencies and less in others.
G.  Assessment of Outcome
36. Although progress in meeting the development objectives of the project were
moderate, the outcome of the project was extremely positive in that the IBL built a broad
constituency for reforms as well as developing strong working relations with the
executing agencies and institutional capacity to prepare and implement Bank-financed
projects. More importantly, the overall positive impact of the project goes well beyond
the individual components. All the agencies involved in the IBL have changed the way
they do business, train staff, build capacity to design and implement policies, reorganize
and reinvent their own organizations. Additionally, the Bank has learned a great deal



- 9-
about Ukraine, as has Ukraine about the Bank, allowing it to prepare its own institution-
building projects for consideration under the ID APL.
H.  Future Operation
37. Both Enterprise Development Adjustment loans (EDAL and EDAL II) which are
currently under implementation are providing technical assistance to the SPF to build on
the initial training they received on privatization under the IBL; in particular, EDAL and
EDAL II address case-by-case privatization (CBC), foreign investment, and post-
privatization restructuring.
38. Although it has not secured it to date, the AMC is actively seeking funding to
disseminate information to the public at large about the benefits of demonopolization,
with a focus on development of curricula on demonopolization in schools and
universities. The AMC has received some technical assistance from TACIS, but would
require additional funding in order to accomplish its objectives of educating the public
about demonopolization. In spite of its desire, the political environment in Ukraine is not
prepared for full-scale implementation of the demonopolization program developed under
the IBL.
39. The NBU has already initiated various efforts in building on the EPS developed
under the IBL, and have several programs currently under development, including
increasing the capacity of EPS. In this regard, the NBU is seeking assistance in software
development. In addition to its internal activities, the NBU held a conference on its EPS,
one of the results of which may be the provision of assistance to Armenia, Azerbaijan,
and Kazakhstan in the future for establishing EPS's in those countries.
40. Although the Treasury Systems Project, which would build on the initial
investments made by IBL, was approved by the Bank in February 1998, it has not been
declared effective since it has not been approved by the Ukrainian Parliament despite two
readings. Given the strong political opposition to the project, it is unclear when the
project will become effective.
41. Programs for Ukraine are under preparation at the time of this ICR. Two areas
already identified as priorities were tax administration and statistical systems
modernization based on the outcome of the IBL. The IBL played -a critical role in
preparing both the STA and Goskomstat for future lending, and for helping both the Bank
and the Borrower identify future investment needs.
I.   Key Lessons Learned
42. Although the implementation of the IBL got off to a slow start and the loan closing
date was extended three time thereby increasing the implementation period, the overall
outcomes have been positive. The IBL has helped to establish a broad constituency for
economic reform, build up significant implementation capacity within the Government,
and demonstrate the importance of institution building using a flexible approach. In
retrospect, the original programs in the IBL may have been overly ambitious. However,



-10-
the limited and focussed programs after its restructuring played an important role in
engaging the Borrower.
43. Government ownership of the project is an important factor in institutional
development projects. The IBL ambitiously set out to implement extensive reforms in
enterprise, financial, and the public sectors. The mix of two objectives--implementing
economic reforms and building institutions--and the absence of a clear consensus for
economic reform within the government hampered the implementation during the initial
two years or so. Implementation was slow and disbursement levels were at a low (14
percent of loan disbursed by end FY 1996) until the Govermnent adopted a
comprehensive structural reform program and restructured the project. These actions
enhanced the Government's commitment to the project.
44. Because of the lack of experience with reforms on the one hand and experience
with Bank projects on the other, the Borrower was overwhelmed with the breadth,
comprehensiveness and complexity of the project. The more focussed and limited
programs included in the IBL following its restructuring serves as an important lesson for
institutional development. Limited and focussed programs, particularly pilot programs,
are effective tools to launch reforms in politically sensitive areas. Through such focussed
programs, the IBL has created a core of mid-level public officials committed to reform.
45.  Intensive supervision by experienced Bank staff is a key factor for IBL projects in
new member countries. This was evidenced during the latter stages of the project. Close
monitoring and supervision by the Bank's local staff was also a factor in achieving
implementation progress. Flexibility in project design, and redesign during
implementation through cancellation of components that were moribund and allocation of
resources to agencies which were proactive helped to maximize the project's positive
impact in an evolving country environment.
46. The relatively short shelf life of information technology and other computer
systems and the relatively long time required to complete the bidding process was
frustrating to the borrower. The delay in procurement was because of the long learning
curve in comprehending and internalizing transparent and open bidding procedures. This
was a source of significant dissatisfaction with many of the agencies under the IBL.
47. The deep-seated cultural and political bias in Ukraine against foreign consultants
presents a significant issue in all Bank-financed projects. Although this bias has been
partly overcome through implementation of the project, there is a fundamental distrust of
foreign advice and its value. This often leads to contractual disputes and a slowing down
in project implementation.
48. Ideally, direct assistance to and communication with the beneficiary, should be the
preferred choice for effective project implementation. This was not possible during the
implementation of the IBL because of lack of capacity in the various institutions of the
project. Consequently, a centralized PIU at the Ministry of Economy (MOE) was chosen
to coordinate the implementation. This arrangement slowed down implementation due to
poor communication between the PIU and the beneficiary agencies in the IBL.



II. Statistical Tables
Tables 1-13
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
A.     Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
(x)            (x)             (x)             (x)
MACRO POLICIES                 O              O                                x
SECTOR POLICIES                O              O               O                x
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES           O              O               O                x
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT      O               x              O               O
PHYSICAL OBJECTIVES            X              O               O               O
POVERTY REDUCTION              O              O               O                x
GENDER ISSUES                  O               O              O                x
OTHER SOCLAL OBJECTIVES        O5 O1                                           x
ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES       O               °1                              x
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGENENT      O1               x              O1              O
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT     O               O               x               O
OTIER (SPECIFY)                O              O               °
B.     Project Sustainability                Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
(x)            (x)             (x)
x              O               O1
C.     Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
(x)            (x)             (x)
IDENTIFICATION                         O               x              O
PREPARATION ASSISTANCE                 O               x               O
APPRAISAL                              O               X               O
SUPERVISION                           O                x              O
D.      Borrower Performance           Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
(x)            (x)             (x)
PREPARATION                            O               x              O
IMPLEMENTATION                         O               x               O
OPERATION (IF APPLICABLE)              O              O                O
E.     Assessment of Outcome        Highly                                          Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
(x)            (x)             (x)             (x)
x              O1              O               C]



- 12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                          Purpose                Approval       Status
.l                            ~~~~~~~~~~~(FY)
Preceding Operations
NONE
Following Operations
I. REHABILITATION               Stabilization and structural reforms    1995    Closed 6/30/96
2. AGRICULTURAL SEED DEVELOPMENT  Agricultural productivity and export  1995         Under   -
development                                    implementation
3. ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT    Private-sector development      1996         Under
I_implementation
4. AGRIcuLTuRE SEcToRADJusTMENT  Development of market-based agriculture  1997   Closed 12/31/98
5. TREASURY SYSTEMS              Functioning and automated treasury     1998   Not yet effective
system
6. ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT ADJUSTMENT II  Structural reforms             1999         Under
implementation
7. FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT   Banking sector reform                  1999         Under
_______________________ ____________________________  ____I implementation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned      |    Date Actual
IDENTIFICATION                  September 29, 1992      As planned
(EXECUTIVE PROJECT SUMMARY)
PREPARATION                     November 29, 1992       As planned
APPRAISAL                       May 5, 1993             As planned
NEGOTIATIONS                    May 7, 1993             May 10, 1993
BOARD PRESENTATION              June 8, 1993            As planned
SIGNING                         June 25, 1993           As planned
EFFECTIVENESS                   August 11, 1993         As planned
MIDTERM REVIEW                  Not Applicable          Not Applicable
PROJECT COMPLETION              June 30, 1996           December 31, 1998
LOAN CLOSING                    December 31, 1996       April 1, 1999



- 13 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USSmillions)
FY93 I FY94   FY95   FY96 i FY97   FY98 L FY99
EEST7ATE*           0      5.1    9.7   10.1      2.1       0       0
ESTIMATED            0     5.1    14.8   24.9    27.0        0       0
CUMULATIVE
ACTUAL              0     .78    2.09    1.04    7.08   11.44    4.02
CUMULATIVE ACTUAL         0     .78    2.87    3.91   10.99   22.43   26.45
ACTUAL AS % OF         0       15    21.5     10    337    1144    402
ESTIMATE
*ESTIMATED DURING APPRAISAL
DATE OF FINAL DISBURSEMENT: April 1999
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
[ Key Implementation Indicators in SAR  I    Estimated           Actual
Not Applicable
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators in SAR         Estimated           Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as Defined at         Status      J Impact
Appraisal/Redefined                     |  of Study
INSTITUTIONAL      Diagnostic review of all major  Cancelled in 1996  N/A
DEVELOPMENT OF    areas of banking, with a focus
BANKS              on identifying major
institutional development
needs.



-14-
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$thousands)
Component                                Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate*
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Costs I Costs I           Costs   Costs 
ENTERPRISE REFORM                        371    4,275    4,646     N/A      N/A    3,445
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM                  411    4,750    5,161     N/A     N/A    2,987
PUBLIC ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL           1,218   14,075   15,293    N/A     N/A   20,567
MANAGEMENT
UNALLOCATED                                0   2,000    2,000      N/A      N/A        0
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$thousands)
Financier                                Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate*
Local |Foreign   Total   Local [ Foreign 1 Total
Costs [Costs              Costs [Costs
IBRD                                       0  27,000   27,000        0   27,000   27,000
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE                  2,000        0    2,000       0        0        0
UNDP                                       0        0        0       0      111      111
TOTAL                                  2,000   27,000   29,000       0  27,111   27,111
*The actual estimates were provided by the IBL PIU.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits-
NOT APPLICABLE



- 15 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original         Revised    1                                            1  Comment
Agreement       Section       Covenant       Present  I  Fulfillment       Fulfillment              Description of Covenant
Type          Status   |     Date             Date_
Loan           3.03            5            CD             N/A              N/A         The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is at all   Until 1995,
times headed by a coordinator with          the P1U was
qualifications, terms of reference and      understaffed.
experience satisfactory to the Bank, who shall
be assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers and by consultants, acceptable to the
Bank, advising on procurement and
disbursement matters.
Loan           4.01                         CD         Annually on          N/A         The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be  The Borrower
June 30                       maintained records and accounts adequate to  delayed the
reflect in accordance with sound accounting  submission to
practices the operations, resources and     the Bank of
expenditures in respect of the Project of the  the annual
departments or agencies of the Borrower     audit of 1994.
responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof. The Borrower shall have the
records and accounts for the project including
those for the Special Account and Statements of
Expenditure for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit.
Covenant Types:                                                              Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                                      9 = Monitoring, review and reporting    C = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from       10 = Project implementation not     CD = Covenant complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                           covered by categories I - 9      CP = Covenant complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds               11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral     NC = Covenant not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                                     budgetary
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing          or other resource allocation
agency                                               12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Environmental covenants                                 policy/regulatory/institutional
7 = Involuntary resettlement                                action
8 = Indigenous people                                   13 = other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                       I Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
NOT APPLICABLE
Table 12: Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
.___________________________  Planned                   Revised                    Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                              Weeks  US$000  Weeks  US$000  Weeks  US$000
PREPARATION TO APPRAISAL                                       -            -                   -            70.7    176.5
APPRAISAL                                                      -            -                   -             18.4         51.6
NEGOTIATIONS THROUGH BOARD                                     -            -                   -              3.5    10.0
APPROVAL
SUPERVISION                                                    -            -                   -           267.8        390.5
COMPLETION                                                           -                          -            99.1          63.8
TOTAL                                       -_I_ _                                              -           459.5        692.4



-16-
Table 13: Bank Resources -- Missions
Number        Days
Stage of Project     Month/          of        in the      Specialty            Performance Rating             Types of Problems
Cycle            Year        Persons       Field
Implementation      Development
Objectives
THROUGH APPRAISAL    11- 12/92         8                       E, L              N/A                N/A                N/A
APPRAISAL THROUGH
BOARD APPROVAL
SUPERVISION          7/93          2                        E, P             N/A                N/A                 N/A
SUPERVISION          9/93          2                        E, P
SUPERVISION       10 - 11/93       2            10         TM, E
SUPERVISION          6/94          2                       TM, P              S                   S
SUPERVISION          6/95          4                    TM, P, F, IT          U                   S
SUPERVISION          4/96          2            13          TM                 S                  S          Management of
special accounts,
procurement,
tumover of
government
officials/project
management staff
SUPERVISION         6-7/96          1           10          TM                 S                  S          Administrative
problems (Sectoral
ministries/agencies),
project management,
procurement,
borrower
commitment,
tumover of
government
officials/project
management staff
SUPERVISION        10-11/96         1           10           IT                S                  S          Administrative
problems (Sectoral
ministries/agencies),
procurement,
borrower
commitment,
turnover of
government
officials/project
management staff
SUPERVISION          6/97           1                      TL, PA              S                  S          Procurement,
supplier/contractor
performance,
turnover of
government
officials/project
management staff
SUPERVIS'ON         12/97          2            8          TL, PA              S                  S          None specified in
Form 590
SUPERVISION        4 - 5/98        2            13         TL, PA              S                  S          None specified in
Form 590
COMPLEnON           10/98          2            13         TL, PA              S                  S          None specified in
Form 590
Skills Represented:                  Performance Rating
E =  Economist                       S  = Satisfactory
F =  Financial Analyst               HS = Highly Satisfactory
IT =  Information Technology         U = Unsatisfactory
L=   Lawyer
P =  Procurement
PA= Project Analyst
TM = Task Manager



- 17 -
III. Appendix 1
Aide Memoire of Final Mission
UKRAINE: INSTITUTION BUILDING LOAN (L3614-UA)
WORLD BANK MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE: October 12-23,1998
Introduction
1.    The mission led by Mr. Rama Chandran 'would like to take this opportunity to thank the
National Agency of Ukraine for Development and European Integration (NAUDEI), Cabinet of
Ministers of Ukraine (COM), Ministry of Economy (MOE), National Bank of Ukraine (NBU),
State Committee of Statistics of Ukraine (Goscomstat), Antimonopoly Committee (AMC), State
Tax Administration (STA), Treasury, Ministry of Finance (MOF), the National Agency for
Informatization (NAI), and Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for their cooperation and help
during its stay in Kyiv.
2.    The mission discussed the preparation of the implementation completion report that
would follow the Loan closure due on December 31,1998, and the Year 2000 issues (Y2K) with
concerned ministries.
Antimonopoly Committee (AMC)
3.    The mission met with representatives of International Relations Department and
Informatization Department of AMC. AMC managers confirmed a successful completion of the
Pilot Project (Volin Hlyb). Following are the highlights of the pilot project:
* Implementation of the pilot project was slowed down due to lack of support from
some state agencies, although it was supported by the oblast administrations;
* Volin Hlyb corporation was restructured to a number of smaller companies, and state-owned
share does not exceed 20 percent of capital;
* The Volin project model may be effectively used to demonopolize other industries; and
* AMC anticipates the replication of this pilot would be met with stiff opposition from some
large monopolies, central state agencies, regional and municipal administrations.
4.    A training program for AMC staff has been completed. AMC employees used this
opportunity to develop new skills and for re-training. There is a critical issue of high staff
turnover in the agency due to insufficient wages at AMC.
The mission included Maxim Ljubinsky of the World Bank Resident Mission, Kiev



- 18 -
5.    The accomplishment of the training program highlights the following pending problems
regarding staffing and educational activities:
*  a lack of specific faculties/courses on antimonopoly issues in universities;
*  a need to launch programs to train trainers in AMC, who will be able to continue carrying
out courses for AMC, other state agencies, entrepreneurs, universities, NGOs, etc.; and
*  text-books, manuals, and other disseminating materials are required to facilitate the
promotion of economic education programs on demonopolization.
6.    AMC has purchased and installed PCs, printers, and local network in the central office in
Kyiv. This has improved record management, data processing, and connection with regional
offices. AMC is planning the installation of a fully automated system that includes all regional
offices.
7.    The mission was also informed that AMC collaborates with TACIS on Competitive
Policy Development Program, training programs, and IT development.
Modernization of the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) Electronic Payment System (EPS)
8.    The mission met with Mr. Savchenko, Member of the Board, and managers of IT
Department and Interbank Processing Centre. The NBU representatives underlined the
following:
- NBU is satisfied with EPS financed by IBL and will use it as a core for further development;
-  IT experts are currently implementing projects aimed at improvement of EPS,
communication system, etc.; and
- NBU is planning to increase the capacity of EPS and would be interested in future assistance
on software development.
9.    The mission was given information of NBU's projects on expansion of use of credit cards
in Ukraine, which are being made with foreign partners, as well as with domestic banks. After
the meeting, the mission visited the Interbank Processing Centre that is not only a part of the
operating IT Centre of NBU but also a test place for new projects.
10.   On the Y2K problem, the NBU reported that all PCs, which were identified as susceptible
to Y2K problem had been replaced. Presently application softwares are being tested. Overall,
the NBU is on top of the Y2K issues and implementation.
State Committee of Statistics (Goscomstat)
11.   The mission was briefed on the preparation of the proposed APL and Goscomstat
component. The Senior managers of Goscomstat informed the mission about the delays in
contract with one of the suppliers - Comparex, and that they were hopeful of completion of



- 19-
installation by the year-end. The mission stressed the need to ensure that the work completion
and payment should be completed before the Loan closing date of December 31, 1998.
12.   On the Y2K issues, the Managers said that (a) they were aware of the issues, and (b) they
were in consultation with the NAI and (c) all the computers at the Oblast level were very old and
had BIOS chips that were not Y2K compliant.
State Tax Administration (STA)
13.   The discussion with the STA managers were devoted to the following issues:
* the status of contracts' completion under STA portion of IBL:
*  a problem of payment to a supplier of equipment was not resolved yet; but PIU and STA had
found a compromise and assured the mission that the matter was close to resolution;
* STA shall co-operate with PIU to sort out the problem of payment to an international
adviser, for which the contractual details are missing and there is no continuous paper trail in
the files;
* STA praised the Darnitsa Pilot Project financed from the IBL, and said that it is replicating
it in rayons of the city of Kyiv. The mission was told of procedural improvements on
submission of tax declarations, audit planning, etc., which are noted by some taxpayers in
Damitsa. Although, STA representatives stressed that the pilot does not enable them to
accurately evaluate an increase of tax collection caused by the implementation of the project,
because of a relatively short period of its small scale;
- the mission explained to STA managers the principle of the World Bank procurement and
specifically advised on how to better apply them, and the issues of conflict of interest, and
about an individual working in the STA as "volunteer". STA was also given suggestions on
the selection of staff to the Project Preparation Unit for the STA Modernization Project, a
component of Adaptable Program Lending for Institutional Development. The mission
emphasized on the importance of carrying out all procurement procedures in a transparent
way to allow free and fair competition; and
*  STA reported that all computers had been tested on the susceptibility to Y2K problem with
the help of four testing programs given by National Agency on Informatization. 4,500
working stations out of more than 15,000 were identified to be removed. Shortly an expert
group will be established by STA to study and prevent the impact of Y2K on Darnitsa Pilot
Project and take remedial measures.
Strengthening the Capacity of the NAURD (former abbreviation of NAUDEI) to Manage
External Financial Resources
14.   The joint NAURD/UNDP project (the Bank commitment is US$860,000) is under
implementation. An additional allocation from IBL to this component was made in 1998. The
delivery and installation of computer equipment is now underway. A training program was also
extended. The mission emphasized that all activities under the project should be completed
before the end of 1998.



- 20 -
Strengthening the Capacity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (COM) to Manage
External Financial Resources
15.   The joint COM/UNDP project (the Bank commitment is US$330,000) has been
successfully completed. The office of National Director and National Co-ordinator is preparing a
final report on the project. A copy of this report will be sent to the World Bank.
Ministry of Economy (MOE)
16.   The mission met with managers of the Information and Analytical Department of MOE to
discuss completion of IT component of MOE program under IBL. Installed servers and software
are being tested at present. Though MOE informed the mission of a delivery of displays,
printers, etc. is pending and thus has slowed down the installation process on the whole. In the
opinion of the MOE experts this delay was caused by the increase of quantity of equipment under
the contract. There are also the following problems that could impede the installation
completion:
*  A sub-contractor that should have installed and tested application software is behind
schedule;
-  some technical issues arose in MOE while implementing the project;
-  air-conditioning has collapsed and needs to be urgently replaced otherwise hardware cannot
operate in the summer;
*  a security software is required to be installed to the system of MOE; and
*  is now installing a network that includes all state offices placed in the House of the
Government and therefore MOE has to adopt its installation and testing schedule with COM
and others.
17.   MOE emphasized the point of a new training program to be initiated for staff of the
ministry. At the same time, there is a problem of staff turover in MOE and the average
percentage of trained under IBL among those who had left MOE is very high (30 percent on the
average).
18.   A training program on issues of integration to Europe for representatives of MOE, MOF,
State Committee on Entrepreneurship Development, and regional administrations has begun in a
partnership with a German consulting company.
Treasury
19.   The mission met twice with Mrs. Levchenko, First Deputy Head of Treasury,
Mr. Nikolaev, Head of IT Department, and Treasury PIU. The mission also met with the IMF
advisor to Treasury, Mr. Janis Platais.
20.   The following issues were touched during the meetings:



- 21 -
*  the mission reminded the Treasury of the closure of IBL and of the requirement to complete
all entered contracts by the end of 1998;
*  ICB on hardware in amount of $600,000: a new evaluation report along with
recommendations on a contract award was officially submitted to the World Bank at the end
of October 12" for the Bank's review;
*  other issues on procurement out of the Treasury portion of IBL were also discussed. The
Treasury representatives informed the mission that all proposals would be submitted for the
World Bank review by the end of the next week; and
*  Head of IT Department informed Y2K issues are under control in Treasury. PCs were tested
three times. Interim System of Treasury will be provided with a new version of software that
is currently in use. It was mentioned that software "Client-Bank", which is used by Treasury,
is still being tested by NBU. Also, from point of view of Treasury experts, an encryption
system can be affected by this problem and thus some actions should be undertaken as soon
as possible to prevent this.
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
21.   MOF together with Treasury PIU is conducting International Shopping to procure
computers and office equipment for the Budget Policy and Macroeconomic Analysis
Department. The mission was informed of a training component of MOF, which includes a few
trips to Ministry of Finance and Economy of France and English lessons for staff. The mission
drew MOF representative attention to a fact of four-month delay in implementation of this
portion and reminded them of the need for urgency in view of the Loan closing date of December
1998.
State Committee on Entrepreneurship Development (SCED)
22.   Recently SCED entered into a contact to procure hardware and office equipment. After
installation is finished, USAID experts will connect a computer network. A part of this
procurement is aimed at the establishment of a Press Centre of SCED to disseminate materials on
deregulation all over the country, begin active information dissemination program on small and
medium business support, etc.
National Agency for Informatization (NAI)
23.   The mission discussed Y2K issues with recipients of IBL that have procurements of
hardware and software. All of those agencies have started testing their information systems.
Representatives of IT departments informed of a support provided by NAI.
24.   A meeting was made with representatives of NAI. During this meeting both sides
discussed issues on the status of activities aimed at resolution of this problem in Ukraine. NAI
has submitted a request to obtain a planning grant on Y2K from the World Bank.



- 22 -
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
25.   PIU collected reports from some implementing agencies and presented its conclusions to
the mission. There are mainly two participants of IBL: Treasury and Goscomstat that, from point
of view of PIU, failed to fully implement their portions and thus would cause an unspent balance
of the loan.
26.   PIU reported on two pending issues referring to the final payment to the Supplier of
equipment for Darnitsa Pilot Project of STA and the IMF advisor to STA. PIU has discussed the
above with STA and found a solution for this. The mission also advised PIU on how to expedite
this process.
27.   Further activities of PIU related to the loan completion were discussed. PIU is preparing
a contract and selecting a company as soon as possible to conduct audit of FY'98. PIU confirmed
its willingness to contribute to Implementation Completion Report on IBL.
28.   An issue of disbursement out of Special Account and Loan Account was also taken into
account. The mission emphasized to the PIU to ensure that all contracts made under IBL are to
be completed by the end of 1998. PIU may draft and send to the World Bank a special request if
any exceptional payments need to be processed after the Loan closing
29.   Mr. Bessarab, Head of PIU, said a training program for PIU staff has been carried out
successfully.
Overall Assessment of IBL Implementation
30.   Procurement of some of the items for a few agencies are behind schedule. The Bank has
been continuously stressing that the clock was running out, and speedy decision making was
required to meet the loan closing deadline. With only 2 months left for loan closing, it is
possible that some of the funds allocated for Treasury, Goskomstat, would remain unspent.
31.   The mission stressed to the PIU that no contract should have a completion date later than
the loan closing date, and all payments with rare exceptions should be completed before
December 31, 1998. It was pointed out that failure to observe the above procedures would mean
that the GOU would have to find its own funds to meet the payments.



- 23 -
Appendix 2
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
ANTIMONOPOLY COMMITTEE OF UKRAINE
8 Lvivska Sq., Kyiv-53, MCrI-655 254655 Ukraine
Tel.: (380 44) 212-50-54, Fax: (380 44) 212-48-05
January 28, 1999, # 25-27-2/04-290
Mr. M. Liubinsky
Institution Building Loan Coordinator
World Bank Resident Mission in Ukraine
Fax: (380 44) 247-6670
Dear Mr. Liubinsky:
Referring to your letter of January 14, 1999, we are sending you an evaluation
report on the results of implementing three components by the Antimonopoly Committee
of Ukraine under the World Bank-supported Institution Building Loan (IBL).
Sincerely yours,
(signature)
V.P. Suprun
Deputy Chairman
Attachment:    4 pages in 1 copy



- 24 -
Evaluation report of the Anti-monopoly Committee of Ukraine on the Results of
Implementing the World Bank-supported Institution Building Loan
The Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (AMCU) has realized three components
under the World Bank-supported IBL:
* program of training for the AMCU staff;
* provision of consultative services to prepare and implement a pilot project of
de-monopolizing the "Volynkhlib" enterprise;
* procurement of computer hardware and software for the AMCU.
The main purpose of realizing all the three components was to develop a
competitive policy in Ukraine as well as its institutional framework. It is explained by the
fact that the introduction of the competitive policy and appropriate legislation as well as
creation of an institutional framework for this purpose began in our country only in 1992
after Ukraine obtained independence and proclaimed a course toward forming a socially
oriented market economy.
All the three components have been carried out on a high professional level and
successftilly completed.
During their implementation, complications occurred, both of internal nature and
those associated with problems of cooperation with the World Bank.
The complications, common for the three components, occurred during their
preparation and before implementation. They were connected with their many stages and
complex nature of the preparation process which included: development and coordination
of the terms of reference (TOR), selection of firms that could fulfil the component,
preparation of bidding documents and holding a tender as well as preparation and
coordination of contracts with contractors. Besides, all the materials had to be agreed
with the World Bank and therefore were prepared in two languages (English - to
cooperate with the Bank and the firms as well as Ukrainian - for internal use).
The said complications and absence of experience in working with the World Bank
led to a situation when the preparation process had been going on for more than a year
before implementation started.
We think that the simplification and shortening of this process would have enabled
us to make the preparation of the components easier before their implementation and
increase efficiency of communication between the borrowers and the Bank.
The realization of joint projects with the World Bank not only enriched us with
experience in accomplishing specific tasks assigned before the beginning of each project
and in cooperating with the Bank but also gave a new impetus to the development of
competition in Ukraine.



- 25 -
Program of Training for staff of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine
The training program was aimed at upgrading the professional level of the AMCU
staff which was the most topical problem for developing the institutional framework of
the competitive policy.
This problem was brought about by the absence in Ukraine of an appropriate
training base in the sphere of competitive policy as well as respective legislation,
regulatory and procedural documents, high-skilled and experienced teachers. Under these
conditions, the staff of AMCU agencies were being formed out of specialists in different
areas who had to change entirely their occupations and qualifications.
In view of the above, to organize its efficient operation the Committee had to train
its personnel abroad attracting for this purpose competitive agencies from developed
countries.
In accordance with the signed contract, 5 educational tours were held within the
framework of the project in four European countries (Germany, Great Britain, Italy and
Poland) where training courses were conducted on the basis of agencies responsible for
pursuing the competitive policy and implementing the respective legislation. These
courses combined the study of theoretical fundamentals of a market economy, issues of
setting up the competitive environment and its regulation, the operation of competitive
agencies, the legislative framework of their functioning and the mechanism of its
formation, interaction with other public structures, solving of procedural issues associated
with the consideration of cases dealing with violations of the competitive legislation.
The educational tours were carried out in compliance with preliminarily developed
special programs each devoted to the study of a number of specific problems with regard
to the results of previous programs, thus avoiding overlapping.
The curriculum was executed very strictly on a highly-skilled level in full accord
with the conditions of the contract as well as assigned objectives and was extremely
useful for the Committee staff. The participation in the educational tours as well as the
information and documents obtained facilitated the mastering and development of
occupational skills that enable the staff to use the competitive legislation.
Certain complications occurred during the preparation of the final financial
statement and were brought about by several mistakes made by the contractor in the
financial reports which required to submit appropriate requests to correct them and
caused delays in payments.
Provision of Consultative Services to Prepare and Implement the Pilot Project of
De-monopolizing the "Volynkhlib" Enterprise
The main purpose of this component was to provide the Antimonopoly Committee
of Ukraine with consultative services in order to:



-26 -
*  create a competitive environment on the bread market in the Volyn region by means
of dividing the monopoly structure "Volynkhlib" into several separate enterprises;
  work out a mechanism of dividing monopoly structures on the basis of de-
mono4polizing "Volynkhlib" to be used for the purposes of de-monopolization in other
regions of Ukraine as well as other sectors of the economy;
*  liberalize and de-regulate the bread market in the Volyn region by means of phasing
out administrative regulatory methods and replacing them with a market mechanism.
All the project objectives have been accomplished. As a result of project
implementation, economic analysis of the bread sector and related markets of grain
elevator and grain processing industries as well as technical and economic analysis of the
"Volynkhlib" enterprise have been made, a number of alternative versions of its de-
monopolization have been developed, a de-monopolization version has been selected
which is the most acceptable for the current economic conditions, recommendations have
been given on: price liberalization in the Volyn region, monitoring of bread supply in the
region after the de-monopolization and price liberalization, necessary actions on the part
of the AMCU to ensure conditions for the development of fair competition.
Complications occurred during the project implementation caused by certain
contradictions between various ministries and agencies involved in the de-
monopolization process which tried to safeguard their interests. That was brought about
by great social and economic significance of the bread sector in Ukraine.
Regardless of certain internal complications in the project implementation and the
delays caused by them, this component was successfully completed on a high
professional level. The recommendations issued to the AMCU during the project
implementation and the experience obtained during the de-monopolization of monopoly
structures have been used when carrying out de-monopolization in other regions and
other sectors of the economy.
1
Procurement of Computer Hardware and Software for the AMCU
The project's main goal was to considerably raise the efficiency of the AMCU
agencies by means of equipping the workstations with modern office technique and
introducing modem infornation technologies.
During the project implementation, office equipment, computer hardware and
software fhave been delivered, training of Information Science Department specialists has
been conducted, a network for the Committee central office has been installed. These
steps have facilitated access to the regulatory and legal information received now through
the "Pravo" (Law) system, analytical processing of statistical data, enabled to initiate
electronic document circulation between individual officials, structural units and regional
branches.
During the project implementation, there were complications associated with the
complexity and long-term nature of procedures of project coordination as well as
preparation and conduct of tenders. Within the period of coordinating the project with the



- 27 -
World Bank and preparing tenders to select contractors, the specifications which were a
part of the bidding documents became obsolete that led to a necessity to revise them and
then again coordinate them with the World Bank.
Evaluating the results of project implementation in terms of the obtained
experience, the following should be mentioned:
* The most topical for the period of project preparation but nevertheless rather
narrow objectives were assigned to all the components which was stipulated first
of all by the insufficiency of funds allocated to the Antimonopoly Committee
under the IBL.
* The implementation of these components allowed the Committee to ephance
the efficiency of performing its functional responsibilities. However, as of today,
a whole number of issues remains unresolved in the area of developing the
competitive policy and respective legislation which have acquired an even
greater importance in the conditions of the European integration initiative
proclaimed by Ukraine.
Among these issues there are first and foremost: the improvement of the regulatory,
legal and procedural framework of the competitive policy, the development of the
institutional framework for protecting the competition and competitive policy
introduction mechanisms as well as the creation of social and economic conditions which
ensure free and fair competition on the market on the basis of introducing rules of
competition.
The solution of these problems in the current complex economic situation in
Ukraine requires funds within the international technical assistance and from World Bank
loans. This resulted in submitting by the Committee to the World Bank a proposal to
consider a possibility of providing a rather large-scale loan in the sphere of competition
development that got a fairly positive response.                 i
At present, if a decision is taken to prepare the said project for implementation, the
experience obtained in cooperating with the Bank will considerably expedite both the
preparatory phase and the realization of the project in collaboration with the Bank.



- 28 -
January 28, 1999
Mr. Maxim Lubinsky
IBL Project Coordinator
Resident Mission of the World Bank in Ukraine
Dear Mr. Lubinsky:
With reference to your letter of 14 January 1999, we send the completed borrower's
appraisal report questionnaire. I hope that the information provided by the State Statistics
Committee of Ukraine will be useful for appraisal of performance of the work related to
the preparation and implementation of the World Bank loan.
Sincerely yours,
O.G. Osaulenko
Chairman
State Statistics Committee of Ukraine



- 29 -
BORROWER'S APPRAISAL REPORT QUESTIONNAIRE
1. Appraisal ofproject targets, its content, implementation, and gained experience of
work
(A) To what extent were project targets importantfor the borrower?
Project targets that included upgrading of a software and hardware framework of
state statistics bodies, improvement of methods and an indicator system, training and
improvement of skills of experts employed within a framework of the State Committee
for Statistics, and introduction of advanced information technologies for information
processing and dissemination corresponded fully to tasks specified by the State Program
of Transition to the International System of Accounting and Statistics. Being aimed at
bringing the Ukrainian statistics into compliance with the methods of collection,
development, analysis, and dissemination of information that are commonly accepted in
international practices and at introducing international standards into statistics-related
work, the execution of project components assisted to increase the importance and quality
of statistical information provided to state power bodies and the public at large.
(B) By what means could the project content be improved?
The project content could be improved by including separate components
/subprojects which would take into account the most important current issues that have
emerged in the course of reforming the state statistics system.
(C) What couldfacilitate the project implementation?
From the standpoint of organizing the project implementation, its successful
introduction would be assisted by creating a special project implementation unit within
the State Statistics Committee. It could be facilitated by improving the level of skills and
experience of experts working in the central apparatus and the MPC (Main Processing
Center) of the State Statistics Committee and by creating a data base of reference and
regulatory documents relating to issues of loan introduction and work with foreign
consultants and firms.
It is useful for loan implementation that the World Bank and the IBL Group of the
Ministry of Economy would hold some workshops on organizing the work related to loan
introduction within the entire period of the World Bank credit. In particular, a special
attention should be given to questions of preparing contracts, training experts of the State
Statistics Committee, and rendering services with a help of short-term assigned individual
consultants of the World Bank by calculating the cost of contracts and agreements and
developing a procedure of document processing and issuance, as well as to issues of
currency regulation.
(D) To what extent was the project successful from standpoints of each of the
aspects (see Item 1) and at large?



- 30 -
We think that the project was successful on the whole. Its implementation resulted
in the improvement of the quality of statistical information and the level of work and
skills of experts of state statistics bodies as necessary consultations, new skills, and
practical experience were gained and the software and hardware equipment of statistics
bodies was either renewed or modernized.
2. Appraisal of the borrower's own work from the standpoint of project
development and introduction.
A. Does the borrower consider that its work under the project has changed or
improved during this period? If it has, what conditioned such change or improvement?
Yes, it has. Skills and practical experience of the work with World Bank projects
were gained in the course of implementing IBL. Specialists of the State Statistics
Committee have been familiarized with organizational aspects and a procedure of
development, preparation, and realization of some loan components /subprojects.
B. Referring to the past, has the borrower done all possible to obtain maximum
advantage from the project?
No. It has not. There were delays in implementing some loan stages /components.
Their removal would have enabled to use more effectively loan funds.
C. Would the borrower do something otherwise under the project if there was such
opportunity now?
Yes. It would. Some changes would have been made to some components, in
particular with respect to software and hardware support. In view of the organizational
aspect of loan implementation, it should have been necessary to determine more clearly
responsibilities, to set up a special project implementation unit within the State Statistics
Committee, and ensure execution of some loan stages in optimal terms.
D. Has the borrower gained some important experience/knowledge that would be
helpful infuture?
The experience obtained while implementing the loan can facilitate considerably
realization of similar projects in future.
3. Appraisal of the World Bank work from the standpoint of project development
and introduction.
A. What the borrower considers the best and the worst with respect to the World
Bank approach to the project?
The best is that it understood borrower's problems, supported its proposals, and
provided necessary consultations.



- 31 -
B. To which extent were relations between the World Bank and the borrower
effective?
In the course of the work experts of the World Bank and employees of its resident
mission in Ukraine have established fruitful cooperation with specialists of the State
Statistics Committee. We would like to acknowledge active participation of resident
mission employees and in particular permanent help on part of IBL Project Coordinator
Mr. Lubinsky.
C. If the borrower was able to change something regards the World Bank what it
could be?
It would be desirable from the beginning of project development to provide for
more complete support of regulatory, reference, and methodological information on
requirements of the World Bank in relation to organization of the work and holding
tenders, and to hold workshops on project development and implementation within the
entire period of loan realization.



- 32 -
HAIUIOHAJIhHHH BAHK YKPAIHII
,EHAPTAMEHT IHDOPMATIH3ATiII
21 ciHLA 1999 poKy
[BiAIoBi,b Ha mE4CT CBiToBoro
6aHKy Bi,4 15 ci&   1999 pOKy]
[HaHOBHHrH riaHe JIIo6HHcbKH!
,AKyCMO 3a II03,a0pOBJIeHH3 i B CBOiO 'epry xoHeMo no6aKaTH BaM  BCbOPO
HaHKpaioro y HOBOMY 1999 poIli.
Ha Baie iipoXaHHA HagcH.iaeMo 3BiT flO3HEaJIbHHKa y BHrIii Bi,AIiOBi,ei Ha
HagiciiaHy BaMH aHKeTy. CnIo)jiBacMocsi, ulo Hami BiAIOBiX4i 3azoBoILbHsTb Bac. AIKho
BHHHKHe noTpe6a y SKOMYCb ,oonpauioBaHHi 3Biry a6o y go,gaTKoBiR iH4?opMauiY,
rlPOCHMO OApa3y 3BePHYTHCS ,O HaC.
3 nIOBarolo,
3aCTyHHHK JUpeKTopa
;IeiapTameHTy iH4opMaT3aUif                   CJI.jOKOI
JAoaaTKH:
1 .     TeKCT 3Biry rIOCTaqajiEHHlKa yKpalfHCbKO1O MOBOEO (wbzvit9u.doc)
2.      TeKCT 3BiTy L1ocTamaJIBiHKa aHrJIiicBKolo MOBOio (wbzvit9e.doc)



- 33 -
OUiHo'Hu4i 3BiT F03HxiaIBHHKa
1. OuiHKa uijiei4 npoeKTy, iroro 3a,MyMy, BIIpOBa,AKeHHA i laOCBiay eKCdjiyaTailif.
a.      HacKiJIKH Iijii rIpOeKTy 6yJIH BaKjIHBHMH  JIS HIo3RHaRbHHKa?
Xo,ia Ha MoMeHT 3aIIoqaTKyBaHHS iipoeKTy CHcTeMa eJIeKTpOHHHX iiIiaTe)KiB
HaWiOHanbioro 6aHKy YKPaiHH 3aAOBoflbH3ma noTo'Hi HioTpe6H 6aHKiBCEKoY CHCTeMH
HaInOY gep)KaBm, HaBaHTa)KeHHS Ha Hel IHOCTiiiHO 3pocTajio, i Heo6xigHicTb nepexoay go
HOBO;, 6ijbm cyqaCHOY TeXHiNHO1 IniaT4OpMH cTaBaJia BCe 6ijiblI HaCTiEIHOIO. JHiie Ha
TaKiHI OCHOBi 6yJIo MO)HKIBO pO3iiOMqaTi i pO3po6Ky eiieKTpOHHO1 riiiaTi)KHOY CHCTeMH
HOBOrO IIOKOJIiHHS, i3 3aCTOCyBaHHqIM HpHHUHIIiB RTGS.
b.      5iK 3a,DyM rIpoeiry Mir 6EI 6yTH iiOKpaIaeHHM?
AIKIIO  6 Ha MoMeHT 3anoIITaTKyBaHH[ iipoeiKTy 4axiBfli HEY  6ynH  HaCTijiEKH
O3HaAOMJIeHi 3 IIpHIHHuhIHam  CTBOpeHHS Ta BHKOpHCTaHHS cyqacHHx iiINaTiHHX CHCTeM,
a TaKoxc Ma5IH 6ixibmHAI gocBig eKCIiinyaTaLMi eJIeKTpOHHO1 iiiiaTi)KHoY cHcTeMH, AK Ile
MajiO MiCIle Ha IIi3HiIIHX eTaIIaX BTijieHH31 ripOeKTy, TO, MO)IMHBO, B)Ke ;O iiepuioro
BapiaHTy npoeKTy 6yrnI 6 3aKna,eHi 6inibm CTOCOBHi BHXXiAHi iOIOoxeHHS, 3aB,ZKH qOMy
3MeHIllHJIiCSI 6 noTpe6a y BAOCKOHaiieHHi nIpOeKTy B npoileci Horo BTineHHA, a
ne3ynJBTaTH MOFJIH 6 6yTE 6inbm IIpHCTOCOBaHHMll ,O 3anpOBagrKeHHsI HaftCy'aCHi]IIHX
piIIIeHb y IliA raaly3i. AnIe CJIi)D BpaxyBaTH, ILO BHaCiiAEOK pi3HHX o6'cicrHBHHIx Ta
cy6'CKTHBHHX IIPHIxH pO3po6Ka i B1IPOBag)xeHHS npOeKTy 3HaqHo PO3TrIJIHCS y 'laci,
TOMy 6inblnicTm  HOTO'qHHX BOcKoHanieHb 6yna BHIKnHxaHa He CTiJIJKH HegojiiKaMH1
3agyMy, CKlJIBKH 3MiHaMH 3aranbHOl CHTyaL-ilf AK y 6aHKiBCBKO-+iHaHCOBirX c4epi
YKpaYHH, TaK i y uapHHi PO3BITKy riiiaTix)HHx CHCTeM Ta iHd)OpMa:uiHHlx TeXHOjiOriHI
B3araJIi. BeniHy porn) y cipaBi oKioipamaHHS 3a,yMy  poecKTy 6e3nepeIHo morina 6
BiAirpaT4 HaSIBHicTB 6inilroro  OCBiAgy criiBnpa1i Mix( BceCBiTHiM BaHKOM i HEY,
Kpaiie 3HaiAoMcTBo HEY 3 BHMOraMH Ta HpOueLypaMH BCeCBiTHBoro BaHKy i Kpane
3HagOMcTBO BCeCBiTHbOrO BaHKy 3 oco6JIIBOCTsnMH, llOTpe6aMH4 Ta MO)KJLBOCTSMH HEY
i yKpalHCBKOi 6aHKiBCBKoY CHCTeMH.
c.      Ilo Morjio 6 nonermTHI BHpOBa,;eHHS npoeKTy?
FIo3HTHBHy poib ,IMJI5i BIpOBa42KeHHA IpOeKTy MOrJIH 6 6yTH Ti CaMi 4)aKTOpll, XIKi
3ra,qyBajIHcR y BiXnriOBiAi o rionepeAH6oro IyHKTy: 6iBIIima o6i3HaHiCT6 3 HIPHHLHIIaMH
CTBOpeHHX  Ta  BHKOpHCTaHH1  cyqaCHHX  IuJIaTi)KHHx  CHCTeM, 6iJIbmHri 'OCBig
eKmniyaTaui1 eJIeKTpOHHOf HIaTiKHO1 CHCTeMH, 6JIBIiImH  4OCBiq CIIiBIIpagi Mi)
BceCBiTHiM BIaHKoM i HEY, Kpaue 3HaROMCTBo HEY 3 BHMOraMH Ta npougegypamil
BceCBiTHboro BaHiy i Kpawe 3Ha#OMCTBO BceCBiTHboro  aHicy 3 OCO6JIHBOCT3fMH,
no'ipe6aMH Ta MOxKIHBOcTSMH HEY i yKpalHcbxoi 6aHKiBCbKOi cHcTeMH. He 3aBazEmia 6
TaKO)  6ijIbIi OIIepaTHBHa B3acMogi3  Mi)X  4 aXiBUAMH  HEY  Ta Bi=OB1iHHMH
IIiApo33,ijiaMH BcecBiTH6oro ESanKy, a TaixoK yKpa1HcBEKHMH YPSAIOBHMH opraHi3auiSMH,
MeHIIHi piBeHi 6iopoKpam3aijiY.



- 34 -
d.      HaCKiJIbKH yCIHiIIIHHM 6yB ripOeKT 3 TO'IKH 30py KO)KHOFO 3 IXHx acnIeKTiB i
B uiaOMy?
Ha HaIny tyMKy, iipOeKT 6yB JOCHTB yCIIiuHHM, 6o B iuiomy iiocTaBjeHi jiJii 6yau
lOCArHyTi. HoBa TexHi'IHa IIJIaT4opMa 3a6e3rieHFJIa MO)KJIHBiCTB 3afOBOJIBHHTH IIOTOtIHi
noTpe6H  uilaTi)KHOY  CHCTeMH  i 3rOAOM  iiepetiTH  go  eIieKTpOHHOY  CHCTeMH
Mi)K6aHKiBCbKHX pO3paXyHKiB HOBOrO HoKoJIiHHS. He3BaxcaIHMu Ha XeqKi, 3ragaHi BHuie
HefoJliKH, iipOeKT y OCTaTOMHOMy BHrFJIi gOCHTb riOBHO BpaXyBaB HaSBHi roTpe6H i
MOACHBOCTi, a iIeBHa 3aTSrHyTiCTb tioro BripOBasKeHAs Maiia He IiHIIe HeraTHBHi, aie ri
IIO3HITHBHi HacJIiiK   -  YMOXACIHBHJIa BgOCKOHaAeHHS  i OHOBJIeHHA  TIPOeKTY  3
BpaxyBaHHXM 6iiiiu cy'IaCHHX MOxCJHBOCTeH i rOTpe6.
2. OuiHKa  IKOCTi BjTaCHOl gigSUbHOCTi H03HMaJTbHHKa  B  rpoieci BTiJLeHHS  i
BIIpOBagIKeHHS HpOeKTy.
a.     TMH BBajae HO3HiJaRBHHK, 1110 SKiCTB  ioro 1AiLbHOCTi 3MiHHaacs a6o
IIOKPHIJ1;JIaCA 3a ueA qac? AingO TaK, TO SKi HpWHHH 3MiHH 1H HOKpaBiaHHA?
3a iac pO3po6KH, BTiJIeHHA i 3aripOBa)KeHHAsi HpOeKTY HaMH 6yB Ha6yTHH 3HaqHHIi
JOCBig AK y 3B'y9,8 , 66ei yij&&81i, 6oa 3f19Aa iei. 3oKpeMa, nocBi,g CfliBHipaui 3 BceCBiTHiM
SaHKOM Ta iHIIllMH Mi)KHapOJHHMH opraHi3auisMH, 3apy6i)KHHMH 6aHKaMu Ta 4ipMaMH,
IgO WiOTh B raIiy3i 6aHKiBCbKIuX ilopMaiXiHHHX TeXHoJIoriji, JOCBi ripOBegeHHS
Mi2KHapOJaHHX  TeHJepiB. AyKe KOpHCHHM  e TaKow  XgOCBiA po6omT  yKpalHcL,KoY
6aHKiBCbKOi CHCTeMH  B  HOBHX  YMOBaX  Ta rOiriH6JIeHH  .gOCBi  eKcnlyaTa&if
eIieKTpOHHOf HiiaTi)KHO1 CHCTeMH, if B3aeMOgli 3 iHIIHMH CHCTeMaMH BCepeXHHi H8fOl
EpaiHuu Ta nIO3a HeiO. Ha Haxny xyMKy, Bce ge MaJIO I03HTHBHHlI BIIIHB Ha 1KiCTm HamoY
AiAJSI6HOCTi. HeBHHHI HeraTHBHHH BHJIHB 6yB o6yMoBneHrnd  Bax)KO1O eKOHOMitHO1O
CHTyaliClo B YKpaiHi Ta eSAKHMH HeCHpH5TJIHBHMH O6CTaBHHaMH 1103a Helo.
b.      3BepTalotmcb ,o MHHyJIOrO, I'm  3po6nIeHO HHMH BCe MOXCIlHBe, wuo6
OTHMpaTH AKHasi6iabIy KOpHCTb BiA iipOeKTy?
HaiLioHaJIbHHul 6aHK YKpaHHa XOKJIaB yCiX 3yCHJIE ,zvz Hai46ijmm IIOBHOrO i
e4eKTHBHOFO BHKOPHCTaHHS KOHITiB IHCTHrTyLiHHOH fIo3rHU BcecBiTHuboro BaHKy.
3awwKu OTpMmaHHM KOiITaM B,aJIocM fpHJl6aTH cyqacue o6siaajaHHr   i uporpaMHi
3aco6H, sKi ,03BOJIHJIH MogepHi3yBaTH CHCTeMy eiJeKTPOHHHX Mi)K6aHKiBCbKHX
fiiiaTexKiB i 3aKIiaCTH OCHOBH ,JR CTBOpeHHX riiiaTiKHO1 cHCTeMH HOBOrO rIOKOJiHHA.
MoxcimiBo, Maimo' 6iimmiiiA JAOCBig, MOKHa yGyo 6 CKOPOTHTH ac BTieHHA npoeKTy
3aBfliKH TOMY, HIO BCA Heo6xijHa goOKyMeHTaiLiA 6yna 6 oxpa3y LiVrOTOBaHa 3
BpaxyBaHHh1M BCiX BHMOr BcecBiTHbIoro aiaHKy i BigrifaIa Heo6xiHicTEm y gOBrOTpiBaJIHX
y3roQzKeHHAX. AJe 3j1e6i1MIIIOrO 3aTpHMKH i 3BoJIiKaHHS Big6yBanucsr He 3 HaI11O1 BHHH.
Ha43BH'qaIHO BeIiHKY yBary 4iaxiBn4i HEY IpuHainUHI rIpOBe,geHHlo TeHuepy iaa Bu6opy
Bi,AZOBiaHOrO HOCTaliaBJTHHKa 3 MeTOIO HaHKpaiUOrO 3a8OBOJIeHHS iCHyio'HX IoTpe6. Ha
HaIy ,AYMKY, BpaXOBYIO'IHr eBHHi 6paK AOCBiJy B ilil raJIy3i, 3pO6JIeHO BCe MOXHBe,
nxo6 OTpHMaTH SKHaiiGii6ly KOPHCT6 Bi, IipOeKTy.
C.      MuI 3po6HB 6u HlO3HMaJITHHK I4OCb iHaKilie y npoeKTi, AKII1o 6yjia 6 TaKa
MOKIEHBiCTb?



- 35 -
Ha HamIy AyMKy, Mo)KHa 6yno 6 geio CKOpOTHTH BHTPaTH Hacy i KOIUTiB Ha
KOHCYJIbTauiUtHi IIOCJLyrI, KpamLe opraHi3yBaTH B3aeMoaiio 3 BCeCBiTHiM  BaHKOM,
KOHCYJIbTaHTaMH Ta HOCTalqanbHHKaMH, Kpane BH3HaTHTH Hami IIoTpe6H y TeH)iepHiH
,oKyMeHTa1ui1. 51K B)Ke Biq3Ha,IaAiocs, MO)KHa 6ynio 6 Kpaiue BH3HaRHTH BHiMorH Ta
iioTpe6H HauioHanbHoro 6aHKy B TeHiepHiH AoKyMeHTaLiu, snaO  BOHa 6 royBaniacq
Bigpa3y B OCTaTOIHOMy BHFJI1i Ha MoMeHT nepeq 11POBegeHHqM TeHltepy. HliABegeHHS
HliCyMKiB TeHgepy Ta yKiageHHA KOHTpaKTY TaKOx MO)KHa 6yjio 6 3AiiCHHTH Kpale,
ierIIe, CKOpilIIe 3a yMOBH HaABHOCTi 6inbnIIoro ,gocBiJgy.
d.      LIH HaB'iHBCS F103wiajubHHK R0FOCb Ba)KJHBoro, IIO CTaHe y HarogJi B
Mari6yTHbOMy?
HIeBHHH iHTepec CTaHOBHYIa oLXiHKa MiwHapoAHHMH eKCifepTaMH CTBopeHO1 4)aXiBiiMH
HEY CHCTeMH eJIieTpOHHHX nIiaTe)KiB, oTpiMaHa B XOZi KOHCyJIbTaJiiRi B paMKaX
3,lIiCHeHHS npoeXTy BAOCKOHajieHHA njiaTiwHoi CHCTMeH YKpaiHH Ha KOHITH
IHCTHTygir4HOY IIO3HKH, a TaKoxc JAaHi HHMH peKoMeHAaUii, AKi 6ynI BHKcopHcTaHi HIpH
pO3po6&i I pOeKTy IIjiaTi)KHOL CHCTeMH HOBoro ITOKOJIiHHA. KOpUCHHM 6yB TaKo)K ,AocBia
iipoB3eeHH.q Mi)XHapozAHoro TeHiepa 3a MeTOUHKoiO BceCBiTHboro BaHKy, AKHii HaAaai
BH4KOpHCTOByBaBc,q i xxKH nepeg6aiaeTbcsL BHKOpHCTaTH ilpH yKJIazeHHi HBY iHmux
KOHTpaKTiB y aHaIToFitIHHx o6nacTux. MeToaUHqHi Ta iHCTpyKTHBHi AOKYMeHTH
BcecBiTHboro BaHKy, HagaHi Ha HaIIe lIpOXaHHA, TaXKoX MOXCyTB CTaTH y Harogi B
Mari6yTHbOMy.
3. OisiHKa XKocTi iXijibHoCT BcecBiTHboro FaHKy B IipoieC BTinjeHHxl i BHIpOBa,)KeHHA
rpoeKTy.
a.     Mlo  FJO3nIJaTbHHK  BBssa)C  HaUKpaWHM   i HaiiripmHIIIM   CTOCOBHO
BceCBiTH]6oro BaHKy y 3B'y,ceo 4 IIpoeKToM?
XoTiJocsL 6 BiA3HaqHTH Ao6po3UIlHBe CTaBjieHHA BCiX npeacTaBHHKiB BceCBiTHbOrFO
SaHKy, 3 AKHMH ZOBejiocM MaTH CIIpaBy B XOJi Hi,ArOTOBKH Ta BTijieHHA rIpoeKTy, ix
rOTOBHiCTb )ao CniBnpaiui. rloraHe BpaxCeHHA cIIpaBiAse Ha,ITO BUCOKHiX piBeHb
3a6lopoKpaTH3oBaHocTi ,iAJIbHocTi BcecBiTHBoro BaHKy, He,JOCTaTHM oIIepaTHBHiCTb, a
HOgexKy;H Hi xaiaTHiCTb uoro CiTiBpO6iTHHKiB y BHKOHaHHi CBOiX o6oB'y,c3a, a TaKowK
neBHa He,oooLiHKa 4faxOBOY KBaAi4iiKagi Ta MOXUHBOCTeH iTapTHepiB BceCBiTH'moro
BaHKy rio rpoeKTy.
b.      HaCKiJIIKH  e4eKTHBHHMH  6yniu  CTOCYHKH  BcecBiTHboro  BaHKy  3
103H-IaMHHKOM?
Ha )KaIb, Hag3BHqa#HO sopMaji3OBaHi i He 3aBw,AuH ITOCJ1iOBHiBH BHMOFH i MeTOUHKH
BCCCBiTHboro BaHKy CHpUYUHHUJIHCA AO rIeBHOrO 3BOJIiKaHHq B peaJi3aii iiJiaHiB HEY i
'HaCOM BHMaraJIH HagJiHmKOBHX, Ha HaIUy AyMKy, BHTPaT YIaCy i 3yCHJIb BiA 1ipaUiBHHKiB
HaqioHaj6bHoro 6aHKy. 3oKpeMa, 6ijmue POKY 3Ha,Ao6Hjioc, njo6 riepeKOHaTH
BceCBiTHirU SaHK repepo3IIo,4iJIHTH KOIITH 03HKH, BHAiJIHBIlJH 6inAby CYMY Ha
IpH,a6aHHA iTporpaMHO-TeXHiTIHHX 3aco6iB 3a paXyHOK 3MeHIIIeHHA qaCTHHH,
HpH3HaxeHOY Ha oIinaTy KOHCYJThTagiuHHX nocnyr. JyKe TpHBaBjJM BH3LBHBCA npoixec



- 36 -
3aTBepg)KeHHA TeHgepHoli IoKyMeHTaLui (6inbie 4 MicAUiB), IHpHtIOMY CHiBpo6iTHHIKH
BceCBiTHboro BaHKy caMi BH3HJIHo 6rpyHToBaHiCTb HaiHX rpeTeH3iri BigHOCHO
HeIIOCJiAOBHOCTi i geAKoi HeageKBaTHoCTi BHMOr peileH3eHTiB, ;X HeonepaTHBHoCTi
(,EHB. JIHCT Big 26.09.96p.). rIpH 3aTBepg)KeHHi KOHTpaKTy, yxJiageHOrO 3a pe3yjibTaTaMH
TeHgepy, a TaKO)K AOIIOBHeH]6 i 3MiH I0 HbOFO Te)K BHHXKaJji 3BojihiKaHHA, BHKJHKaHi,
nepeBa)KHO, HeBHHM HeCOBip'AM eKcnepTiB BceCBiTHboro BaHKy 0 TO'{KH 30py 4aXiBUiB
HEY, xo'a B pe3yJIbTaTi gU eKC1iepTH IpaXKTHIHO 3aB)FH BHMymeHi 6yJIH BH3HaBaTH ix
ilpaBOTy. HpHKpOIO HeCIIOgiBaHKOO cTania 3aTpHMKa OHJiiTH IIOCTaBOK 3a KOHTpaKTOM,
M11O Big6yjiacq 3 BHHH CiIiBpO6iTHHKiB BceCBiTHboro 6aHKy (gB. Hau EIHCT Big
6.08.97p.). YCKMa,HEOBaJa CTOCYHKH 3 BceCBiTHiM EaHKOM B ripoUeci BTijieHHq i
BI1POBa)KeHH3 HpoeKTY TaOo)K BigCYTHiCTb OCTaTO'HO 3aTBepa)KeHoro i HHHOrO Ha
HOTO'IHHH MOMeHT BapiaHTy BHMOF ZO TeHqepHOY qoKyMeHTauLL\ Ta B3araii go
niUrOTOBKH i BHIp0BamKeHHM no4i6HHXIipoeKTiB. He3BawaiotrH Ha Big3HateHi HegoJIiKH,
H13Y BBa)Kac goCBig CIIiBiipai 3 BCeCBiTHiM BaHKoM qy)Ke II03HTHBHHM i 6axcaB 6H
11pO0OBX(HTH CrliBripaUlo 3 ypaXyBaHH3M 3po6iJeHHX 3ayBa)KeHb.
C.      AKMO 103wHO a)IbHHK Mir 6H 3MiHHTH 1OCb, CTOCOBHO BCeCBiTHboro
BaHKy, iuo 6 ue Morao 6yTH?
AK Big3HaqaJIoCs BHie, XOTiJIOCS 6 3MeHiuHTH 6opoKpaTH3M y gisl.bHOCTi BCeCBiTHbOoro
EaHKy, lIigBHIUHTH o6i3HaHiCTb Horo CHiBpo6iTHHKiB 3 KOHKpeTHOIO CHiTyaUieLo i
MOXMIHBOCT.IMH Ha MiCa3Xm. SaKaHo 6yuo 6 TaKO)K, mo6 B upoUeci BTijieHHM AKOFOCb
rpoeKTy, HaBiTT, SKTIO  nefl lipoiec geiUo 3aTSryCTbCS, He 3MiHioBaBCA CKTim
Bi,gIIoBizBajibHHX 3a npoeKT MeHegwepiB, eKcnepTiB Ta iHIoroT nepcoHajiy BcecBiTHboro
EaHKy, 3aHHSLTOrO y IigrOTOB9i Ta BIpoBa4PKeHHi gLboro ipoeKTy. Ha Ham uori,i, ue
CrIpH1Jlo 6 HABHimeHHio e4eKTIIBHOCTi y BHKoHaHHi npoeKTiB BcecBiTHEoro BaHKy.



- 37 -
Borrower's Evaluation Report
4. An assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation and operation
experience.
a.     How relevant were the objectives of the project for the Borrower?
Although when the project started the Electronic Payments System of the National Bank
of Ukraine was meeting the current needs of our countries' banking system, its workload
was constantly growing and a need to migrate to a new, more up-to-date technical
platform became ever more insistent. Only on such a platform will it was possible to start
the development of a new generation electronic payment system, based on RTGS
principles.
b.     How could the project design be improved?
Were the NBU experts starting the project as familiarized with guidelines of
development and operation of modem payment systems and had they more experience in
running the Electronic Payments System as it was on later project implementation stages,
it might have been possible to incorporate more appropriate provisions in the first project
version already, which could have lessened the need to improve the project in the process
of its implementation and resulted in better fitness to implementation of most up-to-date
solutions in this area. But one shall take into account that, for multiple objective and
subjective reasons, of different causes the project development and implementation took
a rather long time period, so majority of current improvements were caused not so much
by project deficiencies as by changes of general situation in Ukrainian banking and
financial sphere, as well as by developments in the area of payment systems and
information technologies on the whole. There is no doubt that greater NBU experience
of cooperation with World Bank, better NBU knowledge of World Bank requirements
and procedures as well as better World Bank knowledge of specificities, needs and
capabilities of NBU and Ukrainian banking system could have contributed a lot to
improve the project design.
c.     What could make implementation easier?
Positive impact on project implementation could have had the same factors that are
mentioned while answering the previous question: greater knowledge of development
and operation guidelines of modem payment systems, greater experience in running the
Electronic Payments System, greater experience in NBU of cooperation with World
Bank, better knowledge in NBU of World Bank requirements and procedures, as well as
better knowledge in World Bank of specificities, needs and capabilities of NBU and
Ukrainian banking system. More efficiency in interaction of NBU staff, responsible
World Bank departments and Ukrainian governmental agencies, as well as lesser
bureaucracy level would be also of some help.
d.     How successful was the project in each of these aspects and overall?
In our opinion, the project was rather successful, as, on the whole, the set objectives were
reached. The new technical platform made it possible to meet the current needs of the
payment system and next to migrate to a new generation electronic interbank settlements
system. Notwithstanding some above mentioned deficiencies, the project in its final



- 38 -
version reflected current needs and capabilities, and some delays in its implementation
made, alongside with negative, also a positive impact, allowing to improve and to update
the project taking into account more recent capabilities and needs.
5. An evaluation of Borrower's own performance as the project evolved and was
implemented.
a.     Does the Borrower think that his own performance changed or improved
over time? If so, what caused the changel improvement?
As the project was developed, evolved and was implemented we gained considerable
experience both in connection with the project and independently. That includes
experience of cooperation with World Bank and other international institutions, foreign
banks and companies operating in bank information technologies business, experience of
holding international competitive biddings. Experience of Ukrainian banking system
working in new conditions and extended experience of operating the Electronic Payments
System, of its interaction with other systems, both domestic and foreign or international,
were also very useful. In our opinion, all that made positive impact on our performance.
Some negative impact was caused by difficult economic situation in Ukraine and by
certain unfavourable developments abroad.
b.     In retrospect, did they do all that they could have done to get the most out
of the project?
The National Bank of Ukraine did its best to use the funds of the World Bank
Institutional Building Loan in the most comprehensive and efficient way. Thanks to the
obtained funds it succeeded to procure modern equipment and software, allowing to
upgrade the Electronic Interbank Payments System and to create the base for
development of a new generation payment system. Perhaps, with greater experience
available, we could have reduced project implementation period by preparing all relevant
documents in one go according to all requirements of World Bank and avoiding long-
lasting approval procedures. But mainly, the delays and protractions were not our fault.
Especially big attention was paid by NBU staff to hold competitive biddings choosing an
appropriate supplier to meet the current needs as well as possible. In our opinion, taking
into account some lack of experience in this area, we did all that we could have done to
get the most out of the project.
c.     Would the Borrower do anything differently in the project if it had the
chance?
In our opinion, it might have been possible to spend somewhat less time and funds on
consulting services, to organize better interaction with World Bank, consultants and
suppliers, to define better our needs in the bidding documents. As mentioned above, it
might have been possible to define better the requirements and needs of the National
Bank in the bidding documents, had they been finalized in one go just before holding the
competitive biddings. Evaluation of bids, awarding and negotiating of the contract might
have also been performed in a better, easier and prompter way, with greater experience
available.
d.     Did the Borrower learn any important lessons that are relevant in the
future?



- 39 -
The assessment by international experts of the System developed by NBU electronic
payments staff, made within the framework of consulting services in implementation of
Ukrainian Payment System Development Project on proceeds of Institutional Building
Loan, was of some interest, as well as their recommendations, which were used in
development of the new generation payment system. The experience of international
competitive biddings according to the procedure of World Bank was also useful, and it
has been afterwards applied and is planned to be applied in future when NBU negotiates
other contracts in similar areas. The World Bank methodology documents and guidelines
delivered on our request may also be relevant in the future.
6. An evaluation of the Bank's performance as the project evolved and was
implemented.
a.     What did the Borrower like best and least about the Bank vis-a-vis the
project?
We would like to note the favourable attitudes of all World Bank representatives we had
to deal with in designing and implementing of the project, their willingness to cooperate.
Unfavourable impression is left by too high bureaucracy level in the World Bank
activities, lack of expediency and sometimes by negligence of its staff in performing of
their tasks, as well as some underestimation of World Bank project partners' skills and
capabilities.
b.     How effective was the Bank's relationship to the Borrower?
Unfortunately, overformalized and not always consistent requirements and procedures
of World Bank caused some delay in NBU plans implementation and at times required,
in our opinion, too much time and efforts from the National Bank staff. For instance, it
took more than a year to persuade the World Bank to redistribute the Loan funds,
allotting greater amount for procurement of hardware and software while reducing the
share allotted to pay for consulting services. The approval procedure of bidding
documents was too long (more than 4 months), while the World Bank representatives
themselves had admitted soundness of our claims as to inconsistency and some
inadequacy of reviewers' requirements, their lack of expediency (see the letter of
26.09.96). In approval procedures of the contract awarded in competitive biddings, as
well as of its addendums and modifications there were also delays, caused, mainly, by
distrust of some World Bank experts in opinion of NBU specialists, though at the end
these experts practically always had to admit it was just. Annoying surprise was caused
by a delay in payment for contract deliveries by fault of World Bank staff (see our letter
of 6.08.97). The relationships with World Bank in project development and
implementation were also complicated by lack of finalized, approved and currently in
force version of requirements to bidding documents and to design and implementation of
this kind of projects in general. Notwithstanding the mentioned deficiencies, NBU
considers the experience of cooperation with World Bank to be very positive and
would like to continue the cooperation taking into account the above remarks.
c.     If the Borrower could change anything about the Bank, what could it be?
As mentioned above, we would like to come across less bureaucracy in the World Bank
activities, to find with its staff more awareness of individual situation and capabilities on
site. It is also desirable, as some project evolves, even if this process is somewhat



- 40 -
protracted, not to change the team of responsible managers, experts and other World
Bank staff involved in preparation and implementation of this project. In our view, it
could contribute to better performance in implementation of World Bank projects.



- 41 -
OIiHOqHHii 3BiT
peajii3anil npoeKTy FAYPCI\1IPOOH\CBiToBHrf 6aHK
<<3MiuHeHHSI noTeHiUiajy HauioHanbHoro areHTcTBa YKpaiHH 3 rnHTaHb PO3BHTKY
Ta CBponeriCEKO1 iHTerpaiBif B ynpaBniHHi 3OBHiIHiMH f iHaHCOBHMH pecypcaMH>>
1. OUiHKa uijneri npOeKTy, HorO 3MiCTY, BIIpOBaAKeHHA i Ha6yToro AOCBiAy po60TH
Pea.ji3auiA npoeKTy CniBnaia 3 4OPMyBMHHAIM HauioHaREHoro areHTCTBa YKpaiHH 3 nHTaHb
PO3BHTKY Ta CBpOneriCbKO1 iHTerpauiif K opraHy BHKOHaBBqO1 BJIBaH, iuO 3girHCHIOC KoopgHHauiio
po6OTH MiHiCTepCTB i Bi,OMCTB 3 nHTaHb 3ajiyqeHHS Ta BHKOPHCTaHHS 3OBHilHiX 4iHaHCOBHX
pecypciB.
ToMy BripoBaBKeHHS TaKHX KOMnOHeHTiB npoexTy, AK HiABHiijeHHA i1po4eciiHHol riirOTOBKH
nepcoHaAy, 3a6e3nie'eHHs Cy"aCHHM TeXHiqHHM  o6nagHaHH3iM, KOHCyJIbTauLiHHa goHoMora,
6ynui i C Heo6xigHHMH i KOPHCHHMH.
rlpaKTHKa peaj1i3auil npoeKTy noKa3aiia, uLo npo4eciHHI4H TpeHiHr, TexHi'He OCHaBUeHHS1,
3aCTOcyBaHHA HOBiTHiX  iH4opMaijuiiHHHX  TeXHoJIori  B ripo eciHHiH i SAIAbHOCTi MalOTb
ripiopHTeTHe 3HaqeHHB ARs HpaBiBHI4KiB HauiOHambHoro areHTcTBa. ToMy PO3iiiHPeHHA npoeKTy
3jiHCHIOBanocb came B UHX HarpsAMax.
rlo.ieriueHHmo y BnpoBaaKeHHi npoeicTy MOMfH 6 CJIyryBaTH cRiiAyio'i aKTOpH:
-  )lo noqaTKy peaji3auiY ripoeKTy npOBeaeHHA BiRROBiAHoro TpeHiHry nepcoHaAy PIU 3
nHTaH6 MiCKHapOAHHX 3aKyniBeJIi Ta BHTpaT KOHTiB upOeKTy;
-  HpOBegeHHA ynepegwcyiomHx KOHCyJIbTaiAiH igogo y3rogweHHA npoueAyp IIPOOH  Ta
CBiToBoro 6aHKy;
-  Ha roqaTKy peani3auil npoeKTy BHAieHHS nOBHOf Heo6XiAHo-i CyMH KOlUTiB, a He noeTranHe
po3lIlHpeHHh KOMnOHeHTiB npoeKTy (sK ue 6yno npaKTHqHO 3lIiRCHeHO).
B3arani, peajii3aLiiio npoeKTy 3a uoro HanpmSaMH Ta npaKTHMqHHMH pe3yJIbTaTaMH Mo)KHa
BBaBKaTH yCIlimHOlO. Pa3OM  3 THM, po6oTa, uAo 6yna npoBeReHa, noTpe6ye nouanbloli
nif4TPHMKH i Hpr)ooB)KeHHA.
1. OILiHKa BjiaCHOY po60TH  flO3Hman1THHKa 3 TO0lKH  30py PO3BHTKy npoeKTfy  i Horo
BnpOBa,JKeHHA
3a qac peaji3aOi.  npoerry piBeHb po6oTH 3a npoeKToM nepcoHany PIU CyrTeBO HigBHIA4BCSr.
UbOMy CflpHwH c]iTi0i 4awKTOpw
-  yqaCTb nepCOHajiy PIU B cnelUiaii3oBaHHx ceMiHapax 3 nHTaHb Mmi*KHapOAHHX 3aKyniiBejb Ta
npouegyp BHTpaT KOIIITiB npOeKTy, XKi ITpOBOaHJTHCb ITpeACTaBHHKaMH CBiTOBoro 6aHKy Ta
YKpaiHCbKof acoLAiaJiJf ynpaBjiiHHA npoeKTaMH;
-  KOHCyflbTaLiiHa aorioMora Ha rOioaTKOBoMy eTani 3 6oKy  FpynM  BHPOBaBKeHHS
IHCTHTy11i4iHOI IIO3HKH;
-  KOHcynbTaLuiHHa ;onoMora 3 6oKy MeHe,pKepiB HpeaCTaBHHiATBa CBiToBoro 6aHKy B YKparHi
Ta cHeUiaJiicTiB 3 BaUIHHrToHy.
BBaKacMo, 140 HaijiOHalianHHM aFeHTCTBoM 6yjno 3po6JIeHo BCe MOWnHBe ARA ROCACrHeHHS1
e4eKTHBHOCTi npoeKTy.
5IKWo 6yna 6 MOXCIHBiCTb BHeCTH AKiCL KOpCKTHBH y BnpOBa,AKeHHA HpOr KTy, TO, B nepwy
Hepry, 6yrnH 6 BpaXoBaHi Ti 4DaKTOpH, AKi BKa3aHi B n. 1.
HpaKTHqHHi4 ROCBiA po60TH 3 npoecKTOM AaB MOKJHBiCTb 3aKpinHTH TeopeTHHHi 3HaHHA, IUO
6yIH OTpHMaHi Ha CeMiHapaX 3 nrHTaHb yflpaBJIiHHA iipOeKTaMH. Ile MO)Ke CJyryBaTH 6a3o0o ARA
nogaimbioro HUaBHrieHHA KBanii4iKauIi nepCOHaniy Ta rlpOaoB)KeHHA po60TH 3 ripOeKTaMH Ha



-42 -
6inBmEI BHCOKOMy ripod)ecirlHOMy piBHi, iiae MOWKAHBiCT6 YHHKHYTiH HOMHIOK B rIpHiHAXTri piMeHb
no npoeKTax Ta HaAaBaTH Heo6xiJHi KOHCyJIbTauiY iHIIIHM cneitianicTaM.
1. OLIiHKa po6oTH CBiToBoro 6aHKy 3 TOHqKH 30py PO3BHTKy npoeKTy i HorO BnpOBaJJKeHHI
3ara6nbHa oLiHKa po6oTH CBiToBoro 6aHKy no BnpoBaAKeHHIO npoeKTy c rO3HTHBHOIO.
CneuianicTaMH CBiToBoro 6aHKy HaJAaBaIHCb Heo6xiAHi KOHcynIbTaOil nepcoHany PIU, Ha 3aniHT
HaLuioHanbHoro areHTcTBa OnTepaTHBHO  6yno BHpimueHO  iiHTaHHA y3roWKeHMu  npollelyp
IIPOOH Ta CBiToBoro 6aHKy. 3 MeTOiO YHHKHeHHI He6axcaHHx 3aTpHMOK B peaAi3auif npoeKTy
rlpeACTaBHHUTBy CBiToBoro 6aHKy B YKpaYHi 6ynH  HagaHi InOBHOBa)KeHHi y3aOwyBaBTH
KOHTpaKTH.
Pa3oM   3 THM  3aTSryBaHHA  pillIeHHA  CTOCOBHO  ocTaTO'Horo  rnepepo3nTo,iny  KOIlUTiB
IHCTHTyIUiHHoY riO3HKH npH3Benjo .o 6iJbIll Hanpy2KeHoY po6OTH nepcoHajiy PIU, BpaxOByio'IH
3aKiHqeHHA TepMiHy peani3aLli1 IHCTHTyIUirH0O nO3HKH.



- 43 -
Evaluation Report of the NAUDEIlUNDP/World Bank Project Implementation
"Strengthening capacity of the National Agency of Ukraine for Development and
European Integration in Managing External Financial Resources"
1. Assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation
experience
Implementation of the Project happened to be simultaneous to establishing the
National Agency of Ukraine for Development and European Integration as an executive
institution, co-ordinating the work of ministries and agencies upon attraction and
utilisation of foreign financial resources.
Thus, realisation of such project components, as improving professional skills of the
stuff, provision of modem technical equipment, consulting services was and is useful and
substantial.
The experience of the project implementation has revealed, that professional training,
technical equipment, employment of advanced information technologies in the
professional activities have priority importance for the personnel of the National Agency.
Therefore, extension of the project was made exactly in these directions.
The following factors could have facilitated project implementation:
*  Holding pre-implementation training of the PIU personnel upon international
procurement and project disbursement
*  Carrying out advance consultations upon reconciling UNDP and World Bank
procedures
*  Allocation of the complete budget at the beginning of the project, instead of stage-by
stage extension of project components (as it used to be in reality).
In general, implementation of the project within its objectives could be considered successful.
At the same time, the accomplished work requires additional support and continuation.
2. Evaluation of Borrower's own performance as the project evolved and was
implemented
When implementing the project, the level of work of PIU personnel has substantially
increased. The following factors have contributed thereto:
Participation of the PIU personnel in the specialized workshops as regard international
procurement and project disbursements, held by the representatives of the World Bank and the
Ukrainian Association of Project Management.
* Consulting support at the first stage from the IBL Project Implementation Unit
* Consulting support from the managers of the World Bank Office in Ukraine as well
as professionals from Washington.



- 44 -
We consider that the National Agency has made its best in attainment of project
efficiency. If it were possible to make some minor changes to the project implementation,
those would be the factors, mentioned under item I.
Practical performance of the project has enabled to reinforce theoretical knowledge,
gained on seminars upon project management. It could provide the basis for further
improvement of personnel qualification and continuation of work upon projects on a
higher professional level, as well as enable to avoid mistakes in project decision making
and provide other specialists with requisite consultation.
3. Evaluation of the Bank's performance as the project evolved and was
implemented
The overall evaluation of the World Bank's performance upon project
implementation is positive. The professionals of the World Bank have provided necessary
consultation for the PIU, the issue of reconciling procedures of the World Bank and
UNDP had been promptly settled upon the request of the National Agency. With the end
of avoiding unwanted delays in project implementation, the World Bank Office in Kyiv
has been conferred with the authority to approve the contracts.
At once, protraction with the decision upon final reallocation of the Institution
Building Loan costs has lead to a more strenuous work of the PIU personnel, taking into
consideration the expiration of the IBL implementation term.



IBRD 27828R
20'                                       25'                                        30                                          35'                                      40'
. j                    BELARUS                                                   RUSSIAN                                      ROADS
- -- - g. 0                                        -, FEDERATION         RAILROADS
P SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL
------                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR
OBLAST BOUNDARIES
POLAND                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\ '   S   Kavel   .   ISamy  . 't   '>f}  $  t    ixchernihivXieisp.vWf  <  gToMasoaw             RIVERS~~~~RIVER
ToWafsaw ~ ~ ~ Kve _m                                                       Cho                              ;eToM.-> TMoco
50'            To. Kf<cow    /                                                                                                                                                            50'-
SLOVAK        K      'Ooo                 enpi           <hensy                                                           u
REPUBLIC                                                                      n                      Chyrsisy
Kroroofors ~Id,evsk L&nl
Donetsk     
H           UNUNGA,R    ti                                                                                          $
To fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T oi~
/ ! ~~~~~ROM!ANIA ;ofct$ MOLDOVA (t4Cpm-ik-<{>oo 
RJJN -LATVIA                                                                 1    .
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
BELARUS   -Dr4rp0e(                                                                                                                                           EDRTO
POLAND                                                -45'        .                                                                                                                      4;'
REP,_- rK;                           k'                                       !- .  .. . .  ..... -e;  ', . r;wVT  f-w!5; l E
HUNGAR       ' ,MIDOVA                 ,,
ROMANIA                                                                       , --.                                                               .
BULG iMARIA*>  4 ~                              '        T         0 GEORGIA  ARIA  3% ;
MARCH 1997



