D_csmmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIIAL USE Otl
qut N.  P4072-Uk
n~ORAM AND RI
O'F TME
PRESIDENT OF TE
ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECNSTRUCTIOn AND DE
TO TE
ECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOW
IN AN AMDuNT EQIVALT TO US$27.0  MLION
TO
UKRAIN
INSTITUTILON BUILDING PROJECT
MAY 18, 1993
HJicRO)PICNE COPY
Pep.rt o .:P- 60!7-,o'-U(A   tnl,N    !
Title    TNfTTTUTJC)N Pl. LDTNG P!F;.fiEC T
Author: A1TT,KE2., T
Fxt. 384313 Becm: -47  ->4t . :E. 42
This doement has a resticted distbudion  d may be nsed b recients only in the performauc of
tbir official duties. Its eotents may not otherwise be discosed without World gBak uth0orization.



CtURRNCY EQISVALEM
Cum         Uni - Karbovanets (Krb)
EXCHANGE RATES: IRB PER USS
(End of Period)
December 1992          750
March 1993            2000
April 1993            3000
WlGH1S AND MEAStRES
metric System
ABBRVITIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC  And-Mionopoly Commitee
BAFS Broadly Adopted Fmancial Staments
ICB   Itrnatona Competitve Bidding
MOE Ministry of the Economy
MOP  Ministry of Fnan
NBU  Naional Bank of Ukrae
NPC  Nadoxal PaymenCouni
s11   State Tax oemu
jKaMAN FISCAL YEAR
Janury i to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UKRAIEq
INSITUTION BUDING PROJECT
Lem and Proje  Summary
Borrowmr                   Govenmient of Ukraine
Lan Amount:                US$27.0 million
Team:                      Seventeen years, including a five year grace period, at the BDRD
standard variable interest rate.
Project Duration:          Implemsntation will stat in July 1993 and continue until July 1996
Perject Objecdves:         Assist tho Ulrainian govemment to implement economic reforms and
to strengthen instions essenti to the transition to a matet
economy through the provision of consultant services, trainig and
equipmen   three are: (a) enteprise reform, (b) flnanci sector
reform, and (c) public fincial management.
Fmdng Pl  :                                    Lod  EQda              rdi
(JJS$ miioU)
Government          2.0         -            2.0
IBRD                _         27.0          27.0
TOTAL PROJECT    2.0          27.0          29.0
Economic Rate of Return:   not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    not applicable
Map:                       IBRD No. 24253
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thdir nfficial duties Its cnntants mnw nnt nthArut he hals.eeA uwithoust WnQlA Rlank authiriqatn



MEMORANDUM OF RECOMMENDATION OF THE PREIN
OF THE BIRD TO TE EXECUTIV DIECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO UKRAN
E!OR A  N             BUIIDING PltO
1.    I submit for your approval the following meandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Ukraine for the equivalen of US$27.0 million to help fance istiion building activities. The loan
woud be at the Bak's sandd varibe interest rate, with a matuity of 17 years, including 5 years of
grace. Paraldel fimancing of appiroximately US$16.9 million is being provided by the EC, EBRD,
Nethelands, UK, and WMF.
Badcground
2.    Fornma contacts between Ukraine and the World Bank were Initiated during a mission in Jamnry
1992. Ukraine joined the IBRD in September 1992. An economic report, entided Ukraine: Couty
Fxonomic Memorandwn (Report No. 11029-UA), will be distributed prior to consideration of the
proposed project The proposed project would be the Bans fis operation in Ukraine.
3.    Ukraine faces the immese challenge of creatig the instiuons of a sovereign state while
sngft the transition from a cetally planned to a marketbased economy. Seventy years of Soviet
ontol have left the counry with a sttre of production and trade tha reflects the polidcal economy
objectives of central planners rather than the most efficient use of resoure, and thus, with a poore
populatdon. At its most basic level, the shift to a maketorleted econowmy will require a radical change
In relative prices, and correspondingly, a major reallocation of resources. This trmation constitutes
the very basis for future growth and Improved living condidons for the people of Ukrne.
4.    The Govenament has expressed its commiment to the transition to a maket economy, but is still
in the process of developing a concrete program and the polical consensus required to achieve this
transition. The role of government in the economy is gradually evolving from a focus on direct control
over prducton activities to m  nomic and structural policies supportive u. ficiency and growth.
At this stag, the Govement must deal simulously with th   overriding issues. First, it must
provide a stable macroeconomic e me         to control inflation so tgat prices give meigbl
signals for resource allocation and to mitigate the shortt-tm decline in rea savings and production.
Second, it needs to cary out systemic reforms to promote competition including the ransfer of ownership
from the state to the private sector, for without these refors there will be no supply response and only
fiWl stabilizatin. Third, it wi have to protect the poorest groups of society during the transition.
S.    Reent Economic Developments. Economic perfimance has deterirated sharply in recent
yeas. Output continues to contact as GDP fell by about 15 percent in 1992 following a decline of 11
percent in 1991. Industry, which accounts for about 42 percet of GDP, has been particulady hard hit
by shortages of imported inpu, pardtculay energy. and the loss of traditional export markets in the
fome Soviet Union (FSU). Reflecting these developments, value-added in tie industrial secto iS
edmated to have fallen by 9 percen in 1991 and a further 10 percent in 1992. Value-added in
agriture, which account for roughly 30 percen of GDP, fell by 13 percent in 1991 owing to the dual
effet of input shortages and drought. Agricultue output declined further In 1992 despite improved
weather conditions. Per capita GNP is emated at $2,340 for 1991, according to the World Bank Adas
methodology.



-2 -
6.     nenatona trade, wbich reprened  WproxmWy 29 pefcen of GDP In 1990 (including FSU
trade), is estimated to have fallen by about 50 percent over the last two years. The collapse of trade with
the staes of the FSU, which accounted for 82 percent of Ukraine's total trade in 199, has had an
especay disruptive effect, leading to domic shorages of essentW inputs and consumption goods. The
movement to world prices in such trade, particularly for oil and gas, will moreover constitute a major
adverse terms-of-trade shock for the Ukrainian economy.
7.    While output and trade have fallen precipitously, inflation has accelerated. Inflation exceeded
2,000 percent fom sd-1991 to end-1992, and is estimated to bave reached 30 percent per month in early
1993. Price dses have been fuelled by a large visible fiscal deficit and a large quasi-fiseal deficit which
has been monetzed causin rapid monetary expansion.  Total govement expenditure in 1992 is
estimated to have exceeded 70 percen of GDP, including social sector spending of about 40 percent of
GDP and extrabudgetary trnsfers through the bankig system to enterprises and farms of approximately
19 percent of GDP. The 1992 deficit was on the order of 35 percent of GDP and financed largely by
central bank credi. There has also been a massive incease in credit to the enterprise sector, including
a 14-fold increase in the fist nine months of 1992. All in all, the monetary system has broadly
accommodated the rise in prices. In addition, incomes poli,y, which until recendy encompassed
mandatory wage indexation, led to an increase in real wages between 1991 and 1992.
8.    The present Government was named at the end of 1992 in large measure because of dissatisfacton
wthb the economic poLcies of its predecessor. Despite strong vested interests opposed to reform, it is
beginng to address the fundamental ecomic problems. First, it has publicly ackwledged that there
is a crsis, and that difficult and unpopular measures will be necesary. Second, it has tae  nita  steps
to Implement reforms in a number of areas, including small enterpis prvatzaton, privatizaton of
household land plots, sueamlng  business registration procedures, some targWtng of social expendures,
ending wage indexation and introducing a temporary wage f*eeze, and reducing the fiscal defick in the
fir quaer of 1993. These actions do not amount to a comprehensive reform progm, but they are
encouraging steps. Tie Bank will continue to work closely with the Government on the elaboration and
implemeltatin of an economic reform program.
9.         onal Cosals. The Govemment of Ukrine has begum to take actions to achieve the
transition to a market-based economy. Tbe instional cacity to design and implement reforms, as
well as to maage an economy with decentralized decision-makig, is, however, limited. Both the basic
institutions of a market economy and the public sects capacity to manage the ansition are weal. The
Govemment recognizes the prol lems posed by weak istitutonal capaq to design and implement
refoms, and has requested assistance from the Bank to develop and help finance a project for nsional
developmet. T7U  Goverment has identified thtee pority areas in which prompt and extensive
institutional development assistance is required: (a) privatization and private sector development, (b)
financial sector reform, including improvements to the payments system, bank accountig, and the
management of commercial banks; and (c) public financial management. The following paragraphs
review briefly the situation in dtese dtree areas.
10.   Pidvatlon ard Pvaw Sector De mlopme. le Goverment has already created the basic
instiuions and legal famework for privatizon. In the fall of 1991, Parliament created the State
Property Fund and adopted a mmber of fundamental laws, notably (a) the Law on Ownerh 0 whiolh
defies ownership rights for enterprises Et the municipal, oblast, and republican levels; (b) the Law on
Prhu tladonofkSt-Ow     Cpas which contains a detailed description of privatizaon procedures;
(c) the Law on SmallScle Priataon which defines the types of enterprs  open to small-scale



.3-
prazton, the methods of small-scale privatization and the procedures to be followed, and eligible
buyeas and sellers; and (d) the Law on Privaztion Certflces which describes in general terms the
type of vouchers or certificates that cold be used in privatization. A Privtizaton Program was also
approved by Parliament in July 1992, envisioning the rapid privatization of most small and medium
enterprses. Weak implementaion capacity is, however, a major problem for privatization in Ukraiae.
In paticular, the State Property Fund (SPF lacks the technical resources required to carry out Its
mandate.
11. As in the rest of the FSU, private enterprises are a relatively new phenomenon in Ukraine. They
are, howewr, emeging at a tapid pace, and by early 1992 nearly 43,000 had been registered. These
are widey disprsed throughout the country and are esumated to employ approximately one
million persons. Although the basic legal framework for private enterpis activity is essenally sound,
inpi_ n measures and administratve practice still present unnecessary obstacles for private
busines activity. Business registration procedures, restricted access to commercial real estate, and local
regulatory abuses have been identified as particulrly important among a wide range of regulatory
problems. More generaly, fair and expedient mechnism for dispute resolution, contatual enforcement
and administrcve appeal are still lacking.
12.   Fsncw i Sector. In addition to the problers posed by the macroeconomic imbalances and high
inflation desced  above, the financia sector suffrs from an extremely weak  fdtrucre, including
an underdeveloped legal framework and supervisy and regulatory capacity, a poorly fimctionag
payments system, inade e accuts, and weak commercial bank manage_en  The IMF has been
adving the NBU with regard to the iegal frmework and bank sprvis, including the provision of
assistance and training by the Central Bank of the Nethrands to bank supevisrs. The cumat payment
sytem is charcteized by long delays in maidag payments, high levels of foat, the allocation of
significant filancial resources toward clearig balances, and potential bank and systemic risk. Many of
these problems are the result of massive changes to the banking system of the FSU. The existng
payments system was developed to meet the needs of a monobaking, centrally planned economy within
a snle politcal entity. The move to a multi-bank, multi-county system based on maket principles has
rendered the old system obsolete. Surveys of private busin     in Ukraine, undertake as part of the
Bank's economic and sector work, have indicated that difficulties in effectng paymenAs are one of the
most serious obstales to the expansion of business activit. The National Bank of Ukaine (NBU) and
the  mmercl banks have made and continue to make modificao  to the old payment systemz in order
to adapt it to the new environment. They lack, however, the experience with payment systems in market
economies required to create a safe, seure, reliable, and cost effective system for meeti  the most basic
of baking sevices, namely the payment transfer needs of bun   and household customers.
13.   Ukrine is in the process of adopting inteational accountg standards in conjunction with
revision of the banks' Chart of Accounts." The whole accounting framework for private and public
entpris, and financlal instdutions warnt drastic overhaul. At present, the commercial banks
coinue to rwort their financial situadon using the forms developed by Gosbank, the Central Bank of
the FSU, to serve the Inormational requirements of a cetrlly planoed economy. The orentation of
Gosbaks reportig requirements, which aimed at controlling the direction and use of financial resources
acrdig to the instrcions of the national plan, are Inadate for a more decentralized and market-
oriented economy, where financial infbnnation is an important tool in decision-making. Equally
mpotnt, the lack of an adequate loan classification system, and the viou  accounting conventions of
the Gosbank system, lead to ficancial statments which are highly misleading and inadequate for



-4-
providng meaningN  financial inom on, including to the NBU for supvisy and egatory
purposes.
14.   Ukrinian state-owned specialized banks were re-chartered as joint-stock companies during 1990-
92. The banks hawe been involved in an almost consta  process of reorganization since 1987 when the
mono-bank system ws abolished. This process has implied a large urover of staff and a very fluid
organizaional structure in an increasingly unstable economy. 'he principal new component in the
emerging fnacial system i a group of some 150 new "commercial banks.' Many of these instiuions
resemble finance companies or money brokers more th  traditional bas. Some were formed for the
express pupose of rAisig funds for specific aetprises; othe concenate on the intermediation of funds
in the ntebank makeL  While die banks have strted implemenig their own limited instutional
development programs, thev do not have the full range of inernal resources and, more impornly, the
know-how to undertake the required moderion progm  to meet the banking needs of a market
economy.
15.   Pubc Economic  d inanial Mnagemn. Under cental planning, the Ministry of Finance
played a subordina role, redbstributing the surpluses of the public enterprise sector in the form of
subsidies and transrs. Prices were largely accounting entries and bore little resemblance to what would
be derived by market forces. Decisions on resource allocation were taken by the central planning
apparatus, based in Moscow, for implemeation by republic bodies. The strumre and staffing of the
Ministry of Fnace in Ukraine reflects this inherited sysm  It has resulted in a body that is ill-prepred
to perfm  the role of a finance minstry in a market economy, including fostering m c
stability, supervig the finances of the government, and ensuring dta resources are spent efficiently and
effecy on public progrms. To adapt the Ministry of Finance to the new envioronent requires a
combination oIfrganiz   change, the shedding of some functions and the. acquiition of others, the
development of new systems of financial management, coupled with substl staff trainig and re-
equipment. Progress is being made in such a direction. In Ocber 1992, a new Depament for BWget
Execution was established, which is well placed to evolve into a full-fledged Treasury Depament. In
addition, adapting the Mistry of Finace to its new role in a market economy will require stregthedning
budget preparation and creating the capacity to scruinse expet     more thoroughly, review
invesmet spending proposals, and reshape the composition of the state budget. On the reenue side,
it wil requir changing the tax structure and stengthening the capacity of the State Tax Inspecoa  to
collec taxes, while at the same ie ensuring that taxes are applied with the fewest exceptions and at
rates that are modest and do not dicouage compliance.
16. The role of tie Ministry of Economy is also in the pocess of evolving from a largely central
plaML function to that of defining economic policies in a market-based economy. At present the
Ministry is poorly equipped to fulfill the lead role that it has been assigned in the development of a
comprehensive reformn progm. Such an evolution will require short-tem advisory assistance and a
major training effbot in the Ministry to strengthen its capacity for economic analysis, particularly in the
areas of macro analysis, policy fonmulation, and public investment programming. It will also depend on
major anges in the type, quality and methods of data wilection employed by the Ministry of Statistics.
17.   Bank's Role and Sttegy. Ihe overriding economic objectives for Ukraine are to stabilize
prices, to quickly reorient production to viable activities, and to initiate far-reaching systemic reforms.
Detailed policy poposas have been put forward in the key areas for realization of the above objectives:
price and trade policies, financial sector reforms, privatizon and private sector development,
agriculte, energy, and the socia safety net. Implementation of a program to achieve the above



-5-
objwctves could be supported by a Rehabilitation Loan and subseqenly by a series of sector loam, As
noted above, Ukaine is in the process of creating many of th Institutions of a market economy.
Insiutionail development lending will be essental to stngthen the instional nfrastructure needed for
such an eonomy and to improve the cacity of the govement to design and Implement reform, as
well as to absorb additional extra   support. The proposed operaion would be the frst Bank loan to
Ukraie. It would strngthen the government's cpa    to achie the above objectves by supportg
pvtzaton and privme sector deveiopment, strengthening the basic infrastucure of the financid sector,
and providing the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy with the means to manage economic
and financial policy formulation and implementation. In addition to providing specific insiudonal
suppo, It would stren  the cosituency for reform and faciitate policy dialogue both wi Ukraine
ad with international financial institutions. In paricular, it would enlarge the dialogue between Ukraine
and the Bank to coret assistance in specific areas of reform.
Project Desciption
18.   ObjetIves.  The objecdtves of the proposed ntiudon Building Project are to support
implementaticn of economic reforms and to strengthen institudons essentia to the efficient operation of
a market economy. In order to achieve these objectives the project will provide consultant services,
training and equipment in three broad areas: enterpise reform, fiancial sector reform, and public
economic and financial management. The project will complement activities already underway or planned
by other donors in these areas. The loan would also include an unallocated amount to respond to
addidonal r    _    identified during implemetation; such actvities would be mutuly agreed upon
by the Governmen and the World Bank and consistent with the project's objectives.
19.   Enterpris Reform (US$43 nilon). Private sectctdevelopmen, including privatizion, wlln
be the key to future growth in incomes and employment in Ukraine. It is key to achieving the transition
to a market economy, since, in addition to leading to a more efficient management of firms, private sector
development and privatzation are the very means of creaing markets in mo  goods and serices. The
enterprise component will provide assistance in four specific activities: (a) implemenation of privatization
and business regulatory reform in selected oblasts and cides; (b) pilot privatzations program, (c)
demonopolization; and (d) a public information campaign regarding privazation.
20.   Au ace to Oblks  and Cdes. The project will prove pnvaiatio  and private sector
development assistance to selected oblasts and cities aimed at acceleratig piva ion of state and
muicipal property and promoting the rapid expansion of private sector actvit. This importa  element
of the project has been prepared following an explicit bottom-up appach. It is designed to provide
assistance to localities that are prepared to move on the acual implementation of privatizaton and other
reforms. Initially such assistance will focus on the organization of auctions for small enterprise
privatization and simplification of the regulatory framework for private business. With regard to small
enterprise privatization, the project would finance an expansion of aucions, based on the IFC-supported
pilot auctions conducted in Lviv and elsewhere, and integrate them with regulatory reforms and other
privazation assistance. It would subsequentdy assist the same localities develop and implement programs
for the privatization of medium-size enterprises, land, and housing. Assistance has already been Iniated
in Kharldv and is proposed for at least four other cities, including possibly Donetsk, Kiev. Mykolaiv, and
Yalta. The project will finance a coordinator for small enterprise privatization at the State Property Fund
in Kiev (18 person-months), and full-time city coordinators (24 person-months), two local assistants (48
person-months), and short-term consultants (12 person-months) for each city sub-project. It will also



-6-
finace basic office equipment for each city sub-project and training for local officials and enterprise
21.   PoW Pdv4dzadon. Tle project will provide assistance for the pilot privatzation of approximaely
five enterpes in order to test and fine tune the methodologies to be employed under the privatzation
program to be carried out by the SPF. To the ext-et possible, the enteprises will be selected in those
cities which are receiving support under the small enterprise privatiaion and private sector developmet
subcomponent described above. The project will finance approximately 30 person-months of consulting
services to be provided to the SPF for the privatization of the selected enterprises. The composition and
durtion of consulting services required will vary from enteprise to entepise, but include legal,
fIancial, and engineering assistance.
22.   Demnoapolkadin. The demonopolization subcomponent will support the newly created Anti-
Monopoly Committee (AMC) in the preparation and initin on of a program to break up selected
monopoly enterpris  and to prevent practices aimed at restrictng competition. The UK Know-How
Fund will finance a long-term advisor for the AMC (approximaey 18 person-months). The project will
finance additional short term consultants for a total of 20 person-months. TIhis will include assisance for
(a) the break up of selected monopoly enterprises and (b) the finalization of legal tem, work program,
operating guidelines and organ'zational structure of the AMC. The project will finance training for AMC
staff in the form of a two-week seminar to be held in Kiev and work visits to anti-monopoly agencies in
other countries. The project will also finance office equipment for the AMC headquarters and regional
offices.
23.   Public lqmaton Campaign. The project will finance a public information campaign on the
privatization program aimed at imprving the public's understanding of the privadzadlon process and
generatng support for implementation of Ukraine's privatmation program. The public infomaton
empaign, to be maaged by the SPF, will cover all aspects of the privatization process, including its
context in the general reform process, and will give specific coverage to small etrprise pivaization
and the use of prvatization certificates. It will make use of all available media, including TV, radio,
press releases, seminars, speeches and public meetings. It will include presentaions by key political
figures and regional spoMespersons such as enterprise managers, investment fid managers, and private
entrepreneurs. The project will fimd a public relations advisor for six months to design and implement
the program and the preparation of the neceary publicity materials, including electronic media
preentations.
24.   Asstacefrom Other Donors. ITe above assistance is designed to complement and be closely
coordinated with ongoing and planned assistance from ECtrACIS, EBRD, the Nethrands, the UK
Know-How Fund, and USAID. The EC/EBRD have placed a f-am of advisors in the SPF to asist in
the definition of an overall privatization strategy and the promotion of privatzation procedures (totl cost
ECU 1.8 million). The ECtTACIS program will also provide assistance (a) to enterprises in their
negotiations with foreign investors (ECU 0.7 million) and (b) for the preparation of 6-9 pilot enterprises
for their privatization (ECU 4.3 million). The EBRD is also providing assistance in pilot privatization
tasactions with funding from Japan (ECU 0.9 million). The Netherlands wiU provide parallel financing
(US$0.5 million) for smah-enterprise privatization in Kharkiv. Tne UK Know-How Fund will finance
advisors to the Anti-Monopoly Committee (US$0.25 million). USAID is considering additional assistance
to the State Property Fund.



-7-
25.   Pinandal Soctor Rform (JS48 milUon). Efficiet financial Iemediation will be crical
to facil  the mmssive relocaon of resources ImpVIe by the move to a market economy and major
chages in reladve prices.  The project would begin to address ficial sectr  Issues thrmugh
strengtheingthe setor's istoa   ra c , Including the mo basic of baking sevices, namely
efecting payments betwen economic agent. Specifically, the financial sector compone  will provide
asis e In de areas: (a) modeizaton of the paymens system, (b acounting refom for fnacW
insdtutions, and (c) Instiional  gtn   of commercial banks.
26.   Payments Systm  The projec will assist the National Bank of Ukraine (NBI" and the banldng
industry in developing a safe, secure, reliable and eost effective payment system   meets the needs
of businesses, consume, and banks to asfer Mm and eft payments. Ihe upport provided under
thie project builds upon the assistance provided by the IMP and the Austrian National Bank to the NBU.
Asstnce wll be provided in the following areas: system architure and development str, payment
instrument design, clearn and setement systems, standards, legal and regulatory structue, safet and
security, ownship and control, cost recovery, and i'abank systems. Toe project will finance
approximately 30 person-months of consutant services for Iimedie short-term Improvemens and for
the design and initial implementation of a modern payments system; training for NBU and commercial
bank sta  and inidal hardware and software needs for implemenation at the NBU, commercial banks,
and cearinghouse. Technical specification of hardware and software requirements would be prepared
during the design phase and agreed with the Bank prior to initiating procurement.
27.   Accowgfor handcal InsUalons. The project will provide assistance for the rapid adoption
of refors in bank accounting, Intoducto of a new 'chart of accounts", and training a core group of
senior bank accounts and supervisors. The project will finance a taining seminar in Kiev to introduce
a new bank accounting system (BAFS-Broadly Adapted Financial Statements), expert assistance (3
personmonths) to undertake two pilot projes applying the new accounting medtodology and formats,
consulting services (6 person-months) to prepare for adoption of the svstem, consulting services (3
person-months) to the NBU's Computw Center in software development, and a one month intensive
training program for senior bank acountats.
28.   Insttional Strengdzenlng of Banks. he project will prvide assistance to two Ukrainian bank,
the Savings Bank and a Commercial bank, aimed at acceleratng their development into modern, market-
oriented bang Istitutions. The first phase of assistamce (6 person-months per bank) will focus on a
diagnostic of the istdtonn needs of the bank and development of a moderization program. A second
phase of assistance (64 person-months per bank) will focus on implemention of such a program
Assistance wfll focus on business strategy, credit policy and procedures, risk management, preparation
for financial restructuring, treasury management, accounting and interal audit systems, auomation
strtegy, and training requirements. The assistance wIll be provided by foreign savings and commercial
banks or a specialized consulting firm, with a view to laying the groundwork for commercial cooperation
and the possibility of eventual foreign investment.
29. Assistance friom Other Donors. Additional assistance in the areas of trainig and general
accounig standards will be financed by other donors. The EC/TACIS program will support the creation
of a bankers training center (ECU 2.7 million) and provide assistance for revamping gener accountng
standards (ECU 0.3 million). The UK Know-How Fund is providing assistance for accounting taining
(approximately £ 0.5 million). USAID has also expressed interest in financial sector training activities.
EBRD and the US Trade Development Agency have expressed interest in cofinancing work related to the
payment system.



8 -
30.   Public Eonomic and Fiandal Managment (US$14.1 mUllon). Improved public economic
and financial m gme wi be essental for moving to a moo stable macrocoomic nvironnt and
futur growth. To this end, the proposed project would stngthen key uni In the Misty of Finc ,
the Misty of Statisdcs, and the Minstry of Economy. Specifically, the pulic economic and financal
mnagnt compone  wi provide assisance in five area  (a) the etablishment of a treasury sytem
in the Ministry of Fiance, (b) modntion of tax  niron (e) modenization of the statistcl
system, (d) strengtheing the economic analysis capacity of the Mistry of Economy, and (e) sUPPOtt
to a project implementation unit for the Instition Buflding Project.
31.   7)aswy System. Te project will provide asiac for the establishment of a treury system
in the Ministry of Finance, in close coopertion with the Fiscal Affairs Depant of the IMF. It will
provide the Ministy with the systems needed to improve manam     of budget executon, beging
with provision of mey and improved information on xpenditr and reve opatns. The first
stage will consist of the deaed design for the Implementation of a compueized teasy   system,
including the technical specification, in consultation with the Bank, of the hardware and softwar
requiremens for subsequent stage. Stage two will consist of a pilot iplemtaton in one oblast and
one or two spending ministries. Stae treo will involve ful implemention.  e IME wil provide a
Senior Treasury Advisor to oversee design and implemtion of the system. The project wil fince
an accouning advisor for approximately 24 months, a traing advisor for 12 months, a total of 24
person-months for systm  advisors, and approximately 90 person-months of local systm analysts and
programmers. In addition, the project will fhance training of staff from the newly created Treasury
Depament and from the corresponding mints of spending ministries. Finaly the project will finance the
software and hardware required to design, test, and implement a computeized treasuy system.
32.   Tax A larOW16n. The project will provide sssan  to ipov the adminiration of taes
by supporting the    izationof the State Tax1 lspectortesur, p, and
infrmon processi  systm. Tbis eft is expected to reduce the compian  problems hfucg
taxpayers, genert additional revenue through improved voluaMy coWliance, and siifintly Ira
productivity throughout the tax administration. Tbe IMP will provide the Chief Technical Advsor (18
months) and additional assistance (4 person-mouns). The EC will provide 23 person-months of advior
for training, taxcayer education, and audit planning, and computer equipment for one pilot applicaton
(US$ 0.4 million). The loan will finance computer equipment and software for system development and
pilot applications in four STI offices (US$1.5 million).
33.   M*nsty of Statics. The project wIll provide assistance to the Ministy of Statistics to refine
its program for institutional changes in the staistical system in Urins.  This assistance would
complement that being provided by the IMF, EBRD and other donors. It would fiance approximately
12 person-months of consultant services for the Ministry to finalize the insdtutional restruci
program, prepare a training program, and start Implementaton of both. Institutional changes, once
adopted, will imply new equipment needs in the Ministry. The project will finance an infmaton
systems specialist to prepare specific recommendations on hardware and software needs and, based on
these recommendations, subsequent purchase of priority computer equipment.
34.   Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Economy has been assigned a lead role in the development
of a comprehensive reform program, as well as in the c"erall coordination of the proposed Institution
Building Project. In addition to specific assistance in project implementation matters, the project would
provide approximately seven person-months of short-mm consultant services to the Ministry to assist it
in specific areas of economic policy formulation, including macro policy analysis, project analysis, and



-9-
prourment reform. Tbis assistance would complement the economic advisory assistance to be proviaed
under a US$0.5 million grant from the Netherlands. Tre project would also finance a major training
effbrt for the staff of the Ministry and a small amount of computer equipment for key departments.
35.    troject Ad  ton. Project implemention will extend over a tLhee year period. Overall
responsility for project Imple tation lies with the First Deu  Minister of Economy. The project
will be administed In Ukraine by a project Implementation unit in the Cabinet of Minister's Department
of Relat    with Intonal Financial lnstitutom, In conjunction with offlcials of the varioun;
beneficiary units. The unit has been staffed with capable offcials for this purpose and reports direcdy
to the First Depuq  Minister of Economy. Tne Ukrinian project manager was named prior to
negotiations of the loan, and wfll be assisted by two Ukrian professionals. The unit will be responsible
for review of proposas for the selection of consultants and procurement of goods under the project,
advise befiiary minities and agencies on pruement procedures, maintain project accounts, verify
payments due under project contacs, coordinate the utilization of the unallocated part of the loan,
coordina  all other actions among beneficiary minstries and agencies to ensure timely and effaetive
project implementation, and monitor project implemenation.
36.   Al equipment and materials to be financed from the World Bank loan would be procured in
accordace with the World Bank's Guddeflnesfor Proc1rem  (May 1992). Procurement of goods would
be the responsibility of the executag agency for ach component of the project. Ihe specialists for
technical asistance, taning and studies to be financed from the proceeds of the loan ould be recruited
by dte govement from among individual consultants or consuting firms -n accordance with the World
Bank's Gudeliesfr the Use of Conasdt. The project will finance a resident advisor (15 months)
on project impl        mattes, including procuremt, to assist the unit, as well as basic office
euipme for the unit. Traing of government staff on pmcuam  and disbuement matters has been
itiaed with the aisnc of World Bank staff and wll cotinue during project implem atio. In
additio  the Netheldands is providing US$0.5 million of gnut a nce for strengtheing extenal aid
coordination
37.   At this junctur it Is not possible to idendfy all essenal assistance requirements of the country,
and it is likely that new needs wiUl arise during the implementation period of this operation. To provide
flexibility in project implementation, a small pordon of the loan thus remains unalocated (US$2.0
mifllion). The Goverm t has agreed as well that project fimds wil be reallocated among identified
project component, if such new needs arise or if there is insufficient progress in implementtion of
identfied compone.  A formal review by the Government and the Bank will be undertaken
approImately 12 months after project inition, in order to reallocate resources as required, including
the possible reallocation of resurces freed by the cancellation of subcomponents wbich are not producing
the desired result.
38.   lhe project will be carried out at a total cost of US$29.0 million equivalent. The proposed loan
wowld finane 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs. As noted above, parallel financing of US$16.9
million is being provided by the EBRD, EC, IMF, the Netherlands, and UK Know-How Fund for related
activities. A breakdown of costs and the finamcing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods
of procement and of dsburements are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing
evens and the stats of World Bank Group operations in Ukrine are given in Schedules C and D. More
detiled informaton on the project is provided in the Technical Annex. A summary of key project
activities and more detailed project cost estimae are given in the tables and atachments to the anex.
A map is also atached. Agreed terms-of-reference have been included in the project files.



- 10-
39.   Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement. There is no past project experience in Ukraine since
the proposed loan would be the first Bank loan to Ukraine. Reviews of Bank-financed institutional
development projecs in other counties have highlighted the need for government commitment and
involvement in the specification of the program, clear understandings regarding project admntistratlon,
detied terms-of-reference for expert assistance and for training, and inqnsive supervision by the Bank.
'Me preparation of the proposed project has taken account of these lessons though intensive govenument
involvement in preparation activities, including explicit endorsement at the prime minister level; early
specification of implementation arrangements, including the appointment of a Ukrainian pr ,t  _ mangr
prior to negodations; agreement on terms-of-reference during appraisal; and proposed inteasive Bank
supervision during implementation.
40. . Environmental Aspects. As this project is not expected to have any significant negative
environmental impacts, it has been placed In category C for the purposes of OD 4.01 on Envirometa
Assessment and does not require an environmental  ement. Assisunce for privazation could include
analysis of potential environmental impacts and recommeations for midgation measures.
41. - Acdons Agi ed. Tle Govenment has confirmed its agreeme  with the activides to be finaced
from the proposed loan as well as related activities for which alternative financing is in place. During
negotations, agrement was obtained on: (a) a financing plan, including parallel financing from other
foreigp multilateral and bilateral sources; (b) sele&tion of the Savings Bank as one of the banks to benefit
from assistance under the ficial sector component; (c) establishment of the NPC; (d) undertking a
formal review of project implementation approximately 12 months after project start-up; (e) the respectve
responsibilities of the project implementation unit and the eoecuting agencies; (t) p
anmen; and (g) key steps in project implementation, partculary with regard to the design and pilot
ativities that are to precede major equipment purchas.
42.   Benefits and RIsks. The prposed project would fArher the development and implemenion
of an economic reform program by providing techical asstance on specific reform issues and
streghening key instiutions requied for implementaton of a reform program and for the development
of a market economy. Tbe major risk associated with this project is the uncrain political support for
refom, which could slow impleentind of even an insitonal development loan, particularly such
subcomponents as privatation assistance. The project should help to strengthen the constituency for
reform and the institutional infhatructure for its implemenation, but the political risk remains and should
not be minimized. An additional risk is implemenation delays arising from the weakmess of the
instittions concerned and the possibility of inadequate coordinaton by the central authorities. Creation
of the Depmet of Relations with Inernational Financial Insdtions in the Cabinet of Ministers and
its close involvement in project preparation have redueed this risk. Close supvision, by both
headqutes  staff and the Resident Mision, will be crucial to frther mitigate this risk.



43.   1econuneudatton. I am satsfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1993



- 12 -
UKUADIE
INSTITUTI   BUILDING  BKJE
btlnated Cot and F_lacn Plan (US$ thousands equalt)
COMPONENT                                         LeA                          To
Eptarse RSorm
Cities and Oblas                                19S         2,250          2,445
Pilot Privadzation                               39           450           489
I)emonopolization                               103          1,185         1,288
Public Information Campaign                      34           390           424
Phan" Seco
Payments Systm                                  216         2,500          2,716
Accouoning                                       29           330           359
Institutiol &Stpport to Banks                   166          1,920         2,086
Public xonomndc & F   dnanclal  anageme-fn
Treasmry System                                 803         9,280         10,083
Taz Ad minitration                              130         1,500          1,630
Minstry of Satistcs                             118         1,360          1,478
Mnstry of Economy                               138         1,605          1,743
Project Implementation Unit                      29           330           359
Unallocated                                       -           2.0
TOTAL BASE COSr                                   2,000        2S,100         27,100
Price & Physical Contingencies                    -
Repayment of PPF                                   -            900           900
TOTAL PROJECr COSr                                2,000        27,000         29,000
FINANCING PLAN
Government                                      2,000            -           2,000
IBRD                                           -             27,000         27,000
TOTAL PROJECr FINANCING                             M          22Q            29.000



- 13-
t4ALE                             Schedul B
EISTIMION BUILDING PROJECT
Sunn7 of Proposed Plou ent A         g         (USS m ollon equlvalent)
Project 1leme"                      am                   N.B.IP       Tota
ICB o'her
Equipment                            9.9   4.3"          0.1         14.3
Consultants, Advisors, Studies      -      80            1.5          9.5
Training                            -      3.9           0.4          4.3
Refinancing PPF                                        -_
Total                                  9.9  17.1           2.0         29.0
IV Todtl by s_ana diffr &i thaw by di "sa caWomy de to t  Xdi of th uwlocated poltioa of tilo n
g/ _tm    l Sopplg ($3 7 million), La ShoWpp* ($0.5 tUh), DiU  Coatatkt ($0.1 mlion).
3RD  DIsbursement Categories (US$ milon equivalet)
Category                           Amownt    % of F..rpedltur to be F7wnwed
Conutants, fellowships & taining       9.9    100% of exp_niur
Computers, eqipment, other meras      14.2    100% of foreign ependitures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-fictory co) and 75% of
expnditures for otier items procured locally.
Refunding of Project Preparation       0.9    Amount due pursuan to Section 2.02 (c) of the
Loan Agrement
Unallocated                            2.0
Total                                 27.0
Estimated IBRD Disbursement Schedule (0U$ million equivalent)
FM2                        E12         EM2
Annual                          5.1          9.7          10.1          2.1
Cumulive                        5.1         14.8          24.9         27.0



- 14 -
Schedule C
UKRAME
INSlllUllON BUILDING PROJECT
lmetable of Key Proje}   Ptoeusbug Events
(a) rune take to prepare:            6 months
(b) Prepared by:                     Government with World Bank assistance
(c) First IBRD mission:              November 1992
(d) Appras:                          May 5, 1993
(e) Negotiations:                    May 10,1993
(t) Scheduled Board date:            June 8, 1993
(g) Planned date of effectveness:    August 1993
() List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:    Not applicable.



- IS-
UKRANE
INSNTItTION BUILDING PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Oprato  In Ukrain
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
As of March 31, 1993, Bank lending to Ulkaine had not yet commenced.
B. SrATEMENT OF IFC INVES1MEMS
As of March 31, 1993, Ukraine was not a member of the IFC.



- 16-
UKRAINE
INSIITUION BUILDING PROJECT
TECHNCAL ANNEX
A. PROJECT DESCRIUPION
1.    Iii objectives of the proposed Instiuion Bu11ding Project are to support implementation of
economic rfom  and to strengthen institutions essenti to the efficient operation of a market economy.
In order to adcieve these objectives the project will provide advisory services, training and eqwpment in
three critical areas: enterprise reform, financial sector reform, and public economic and financial
m_nagement. The loan would also include an unallocated amount to respond to additional requirements
identified durig implementation; such activities would be mutually agreed upon by the Governent and
the World Bank and consistent with the project's objectives. The project will complement activities
already underway or planned by other donors in these areas. The project's overall aministion would
be the responsibility of a project implementation unit In the Departm  for Relations with International
Financal Institudons of the Cabine of Miniters, which for purpos   of the project reports direly to
the First Deputy Miister of Economy. The toa project cost is US$29.0 million, of which the IBRD
loan would fiac US$27.0 million. In addition, approximately US$16.9 million of parallel financing
is being provided by the EC, EBRD, IM, the Netherlands, and UK.
Enterprise Reform (US$4.3 milon)
2.    The enterprise reform component of the project will focus on (a) the implementation of small
entrprise privzaon and regulatory reform in selected cities and on the diemainton of the lessons
learned, (b) the pilot privaization of medium or large scale enterprises as a guide to the methodologies
to be adopted in the widespread priviation program, (c) the design and implementation of a national
publicity campaign aimed at informing the public about the privatiation process, and (d) the
strengthig of the Anti-Monopoly Committee. Work has already been undeaken in Ukraine, with
support from the EC and EBRD, on the refineme  of the legal nd institutional framework for privat-
izadon, but much more remains to be done. Gaps in the support provdenclude help in small enterprise
auctions, and the prearation and implementation of a publicity campaign to ensure the program's
success. IThe enteprise component responds to the new Governmmet's priority of rapid privatizato of
small e nti  and supplement assistaace already being provided by the EC, EBRD, and the IFC.
3.    Assstance to Oblass and Cities (US$2.2 million). Experience in Eastern Europe and the FSU
has shown that small enterprise privization through open, competitive auctions can achieve quick success
and provide an early boost to the process of economic transfrmaion and private sector development.
Since 1991, most small entis  in Poland and thousmands of businesses in Czechoslovaia have been
privatized. More recenty, since April 1992, more than 10 perctu of small enterprises in the Rusian
Federation have been transferred to private ownership. At the same time, in addidon to small-scale
privatization, measu-es need to be taken at city and oblast level to promote the creation and growth of
new private businesses, as well as newly privatzed ones.



-17-
4.    The project will finance the preparation and Implementation of auctions of th retUil trade, public
caerng and other small consumer service entepises In about five Ukrainian cities. It will be based on
the eprience of small etep    aucdons held in Nizhny Novgorod in Apdil 1992 with iFC sssance,
and will take full acount of the experience of the IFC-suppoted auction project preseny under
mplementation in Lviv. Ibe process wil be designed to promote speed of Implementation, widely spread
ownership, and transparency. Tbe project wi1l also finance specialists to work at the city and oblast level
to work on simplificat  of the reguation and axation regime and in faciitating access by private
to real estat and other assets.
S.    Small team  of cosula   will work with eachof the sected citiesover a periodof
VP       xy three months, from the iiial stae of auction desig tough the auction process itslf,
and the post-auction procedures for registraton of the newly privatized enterprises. A central
coordinat  unit based in the State Pwperty Fund (SPF) in Kiev wiU be responsible for the  iti selec-
tion of cides, for ensuring a stndardized privatizaon approach and consitency witi national legisaon,
for coordinadon with other government agencies in Kiev, and for orgazing the  on  of the
lessos from experience throughout Ukraine. A private sector development specialist will be attahed
to each city at the same tm  as the privaization teams.
6.    The project will finance a full-me small enterprise privadzadon coordinator to be based in the
SPF In Kiev. Each city sub-project wil have a full-time project coordinator for the durton of the sub-
project Four asistans, to work two at a time per city, will be employed to work over a period of one
year on the design, preparation and implemeion of the aucdons and on the follow-up work. Short-
term consultants wil be employed for a total of 12 person-months to advise on the setting up of the
auctions in each city. These consultan will advise on the legal, accounting and mehodological aspects
Of the aucto processes in each city. The same comnuls would be employed in each of the five cides
and can also advise the coordinr in the start-up phase of the ptoject. The city sub-projects wil be
implemented in grups of two at a time. It is expected ta the small entse  s    including
the private sector development work, will be completed witn 18 months of project start-up. The project
Wi also finace the necessary basic office equipment includig one computer system (all computer
sstems to include printer modem and software), photocopier and fax machine for the coordins office
and two computer systems, one photocopier and one fax machine for each of the ciy offices.
7.    Pilot loivatzatin (USSO.5 million). The success of the widespd privatizaton of medim
and lrge enterprises wil depend on the selection of suitable  dologies at the outset. In order to tet
and fine tune the necessary methodologies the project wil finance the pilot prvakzaon of about five
selected entei.   ese eatpriss wi be selected by the Govnim  in consultation with the Bank
as the project proceeds. It ia likely that enteprises of different sizes in different sectons and different
geographical locations wil be selected to ensure a crs-section of diffnt possible crcms
Where possible, for maximum impact, the etprises will be selected in those cities which are recelivg
support under the small entprise privaion and private sector developnt subcomponent of the
project. The experience gained in desging and implementing these pilot pazatons will be fed back
into the desig of the mass privaiaon program and into the legal texts, regulations and guidelines
governing privatzation nationally.
8.    The project will flnance small teams of consula  to work on the prparation of a privazaton
plan for each selected enterpise. The privat on plan wil be designed to conform to best practic
according to the aims of the privatiation program. lTe consulting advice wil amount to approxi y



six person-mot per entrprise and the expertise required will depend on the enterprises selected. The
onoultnt team  will work under the supervision of the SPF in Kiev and through its regional offices.
9.    Pubc lnformat  Campaign (US$0.4 nllon). The implementon of a privatizaton program
on the scale planed by the Ukrainian Government will require an extensive publicity campaign to inform
the geneal public of its benefits and how it will work, to get its support and participation, and to receive
feedback on pubic percepton of the program. The project wiUl finance -the preparation of a publicity
campaign covering all aspect of the privatzation process, including its context in the general reform
process, and will give specific coverage to small enterpise privaizaton. It will employ the various
media, including TV, radio, and the written press.
10. Ihe project wiUl fund a public relations specialist for six months to help design and implement
the program and prepare neceary publicity materials and electronic media presentations. The public
relions coltant will be responsible over a period of six months beginning in the second half of 1993
f'Nr the development of a communications straw  and public awareness campaign on privatization in
general, small prhitization, and the use of privatization certificates. Components of the campaign will
Include: speeches by leading political figures and prominent national and local persoities, television
and radio broadcasts, press releases, standard information packages or booldets for widespreat distribu-
ton, semin  and iterviews, worbhops and seminars for decision makers, monitring systems and
attitude surveys to provide feedback on the campaign's efectiveness.
11.   Demnopoton (US$1.2 millin).  he higWly monolized sucture of Ukraiian Iriustry
and commrc makes it imperative that acton be taken at an early date to break these monopoly
stures, to esure that monopolies other than natural monopolies are not privatized in their present
fim, and to prevent the emergence of new monopolistic struc    after privatzatio  In the longer
tem, it wl be important for Ukraine to develop the sandard laws and insdtuions present in all maret
eonomies to prevent ant-competiive bebavior. An Anti-monopoly Law was passed in February 1992
and an And-monopoly Committee (AMC) was created in September 1992. A draft Law on the AMC
ddefi   its responsibilities has been prepared, and laws on unfair competition and on uncompetitive
behavior are under preparation.
12.     e d     poliation sof the project will support the Anti-Monopoly Committee
In the paron and inidatio of a progrm to brek up some of the largest monopoly enteprises in
Ukne and to pmrent praices aimed at restictng competion. It will help ensure that lar
monopolies ar not privatized in their present state and help prevent enterprses from forming cartels or
engging in other anti-compettve behavior.
13.   Tbe UK Know-How Fund will finance one long-term consultant for a period of eighten moths
and the project will provide an additional 20 person-months of short-term consltants. Anti-onopoly
lawyers and other specialists would work with the AMC as required at critical times in the work program.
his would indude assistance in specific maures to break up idenfied monopoly enterpris;
fnaization of the legal texts, detailed work program, operamg guidelines and organizational structure
of the AMC; and taing for AMC staff. The project will fince trainig for AMC staff in the form
of a two week seminar to be hdd in Kiev in 1993 and visits by AMC staff to anti-monopoly agedcies in
odter counties. Inteatona speciists in ani-monopoly measmues would be included among the
patciant at the semar and its outs would include detailed recommendations on the AMCs
immedi  work program. The project will also finnce necessay office equipment for the AMC,



19- 
including six computer systems, two fax machines and two photocopiers fbr headqut  in Kiev, and
computer systems, fax machines and photocopiers for selected regional offices.
nnd al Sector Reform (US$48 milion)
14.   The fincial sector component will provide assistance in three areas: (a) modernization of the
paymens stem, (b) accounting reform for financial isttis, and (c) institioal stegthening of
baks.
15.   Payment System Development (US$2.5 million). Te current Ukrainian payment system is
characterized by long delays in maing payments, high levels of float, the allocaton of significant
financial resources towd clearing balances, and potental bank and sysmc risk. Many of these
problems are the result of masve changes to the banking, economic and political conditions in the FSU.
The existing payment system was developed to meet the needs of a mono-banking, centrally planned
economy within a single political entity. The move to a multi-bank, multi-country system which is
moving to free market principles has rendered the old system obsolete. Ihe National Bank of Ukraine
(NBU) and the commercial banks have made and continue to make moddications to the old payment
system to better suit the new environment. However, the payment system planners lack experience with
payment systems in market economies and therefore require substntial waining and technical assistance
to create a safe, secure, reliable and cost effective system for meeting the payment transfer needs of
inustry and commerce, as well as consumers over the medium-erm.
16.   The project will support the NBU's objective of moderaing Ukraine's payment sym. The
proposed techical  sistace would support the establishment of an o iona  fmework for the
deeopment and operton of a new inter-bn payment system, including the development of payment
intuments; cleaing and settlement sy.tems, and the legal and regulatory framework for such a system.
'he project would also provide technical assistance to individual banks in the development of intrabk
s m  to upport the needs of customers for efficient payment procsg and to inface efficiently
with the national inter-bank payment network. Ihese two efforts  na-bank  and inter-bank) wil be
closely coordinaed to avoid the misatlocation of resources and delays in creating an efficient paymret
system. The focus of the effort will be on the domestic Ukrinian payment system; but, because ef thD
close economic ties with other states of the FSU, cross-border payments witl also be considered.
17.   The development of the new Ukrainin payment system would be accomplished in two phases.
The first phase, which would bave a short term orientaon, would focus on improving the currt ystem
for executing payments between legal entities (usiness) and between banks utilizing credk based
payments and relying on curratly available technology. The second phase would focus on longer term
Improvemets which woud include dhe introduction of more modern technology (e.g., digit  data
communications) and would include the introduction of new payment istruments, such as checks, and
include third-pary payments to be made or received by the private party (consumer) sector.
18. A National Payments Council (NPC) will be created to ensure coordination between the NBU and
the commercial banks in the development and ongoing oversight of the nation's payment system. The
consultant(s) providing technical assistance will work closely with this council and its committees In the
development of the payment system.
19.   Phae  1-Sort Tem Improveme. Phase 1 will focus on immediate imple            n of
improvements to the Ukrainian payment systems based on the current credit based instruments and using



-20-
technology redily available In Ukraine. The focus of this effort will be on payment made between legal
entities (enterprises and businesses) and between banks on their own behalf for money management
purposes. This phase will also require the impletion of regional clioue; the interconection
of such clearinghouses to provide for nationwide clearing     seemet and the Introduction of a arge
value payment system to facilie the same-day trer of funds between commeria banks dtrough
accounts held at the NBU. During this phase, the emphasis will be on making rapid and substantial
improvements to the curent ainian payment system, rather than developing the perfect system. The
approach wil be to utilize available tecbnology within Ukraine, and import proven techniques and legal
and other models from mature payment systems.
20.   The specic tasks to be accomplished during this phase include the following:
(a) Formalzaton of the Nadtond Payments Councl (NPC). Specification of the role, organization,
compositon, operation, and stg  of the NPC.
(b) CbArkation of role of NBU In the payment systm. As the nation's central bank, the NBU ho.
uldmate authority for the supervision and regulation of the nation's payment system. Also, as
the central bank, th NBU must provide setdement services to banks to ensure a safe method of
transfering funds between banks without creating the systemic risk and loss of control over
monetary policy that might arise if all settlements were made thrugh bilateral balances held
between commercial banks. Notwitanding the aboe, an efficient payment system requires the
close cooperadon between the central bank and the commercial banks; and most developed
counties have adopted a system in which both the central bank and commercial banks provide
payment processing and correspondent balance services. During this phase, a clear und
of the respective roles of the NBU, NPC and commercial banks will be established. These roles
will give due consideration of the practices of other countries, provide for prudenti supervision
of the payment system, and promote competition in the provision of payment services between
bans and their custmers.
(c) Project Plan and Impleentatadon Schedes.  Detailed project plans and implementation
schedules, including detiled task lists will be developed to ensure proper project control.
(d) Sd. Standards will be aeveloped and approved for paper and electronic transfers in
twms of content and format.
(e) Local Clearinghouses. It is envisioned that local clearinghouses will be used to clear and setle
paymens made between two banks within the same region.  As with most counties'
clearinghouses, It is envisioned that settlement for such exchanges will be made through balances
held at the central bank based upon multilateral netting. Rules, regulations and procedures for
such clearinghouses must be established, including, but not limited to, setdement procedures, the
legal framework for multilatera netting, local cleainghouse rules, organization, and fees. In
addition, methods of delivery to and from the local clearinghouse must be defined, including
courier and electronic delivery.
(f) Naional Cearinghouse. As with local clearinghouses, rules, settlement, delivery and other
oganizational, legal and operational considerations will be defined. During this phase the
objective Is to interconnect the local clearinghouses so as to significantly improve the speed and
reliability of nationwide clearing. It is envisioned that a three day maximum clearing period will



-21 -
be adequate for this first phase. Given the limitations of teleomnications within Ukraine, It
Is expeced dta a combinton of physical aod dectronic ionnecions between clearinghouses
will be most cost effeive.
() Raondon Qf C spondet Account MaWenae. The NBU currently  quies that each
commercial bank branch mahtan Its correspondent (dearing) acoun balance at the local office
of the NBU (26 regions). In addition, each bank must maintaia a sepa   reserve accoumt with
the NBU. '!e current system makes commerci  bank account mahitena-v and settlement
somewhat difficult. The NBU account management process will be reviewed for opportuities
to improve operations and facilitate efficient acoount maintenance at both the NBU and
commerci bank. This may imply evenal centrizaton of a commercial bank's coespondent
account at a single NBU office, improved intra-day balanc reportig, and/or consolidation of
reserve and clearing accounts. In addition, procedu   for net settlment acounting ad for
mainining bilateral comspondent accunts between commercial banks will be developed and
refined.
(h) Large Vale Paymen System. As part of improved NBU acount matnae, commerci banks
need a mechanism for the same-day transfer of funds. In addition, certain timecitic, usually
high value payments may require same day learn and setdement In most developed countries,
the cental bank provides the capability for such same-day setlement services. In the short term,
the demand for such services is likely to be low, permitting a system with both manual and
electronic noce for opma cost efficiency and rapid Implemeion. However, given the ikely
large value of each paymen, credit and other risk ontol procedurs must be of the highest
inter.
LI) Legal and Regusatoy Frwwwo*. In addition to developing and adopting a legal and regulatory
framework for electronic advice of tasfers and multiatera  nettng, a legal/reguory
framework will be prepared which defines the rights and responsibilities of all parties to the
payment t      ,  including the payee, payor, paying baok, collectg bk, and inmediat
cleaing and setement agents. In addition, error resolution, finality of payment and other
provisions wfll be clearly delineated. f necesary, regulatios  oizing the NBU to regulat
the nation's payment system and serve as settlement agent will also be developed.
) Securi and Control. 'he system will be designed with appropriate considerai  to security and
control requrements of a system which transfers large um  of money on a daily basis.  his
includes controls against unauthorized access or altration and may require positive
acknowledgement of payment messages, data encrypton, access passwords, and fincial control
records.
(k) Consistency with Inra-bank system plans. The Ukrainian banks are beginning to develop and
implement plans for the automation of their branch networks. Interbank cleaing and settlement
plans must take into account the activities of commercial bans in automadtng their networks.
Correspondingly, commercial banks must be aware of the requirements to itface with the
interbank clearing and settlement network.
0  Accountng and Control. Proposed procedues for the accountig of clearing and settlement
transactions will conform with generally accepted accounting principles and ensure financal and
other controls are adequate to ensure system integty.



-22-
21.   Phase l-Long Term Imprpements. This phase will defIn the longer term paymet system for
Ukrine, and wil ance and broaden the system developed during Phae  1. It is expected that ths
phase will include the addition of other paymen Instruments such as checks and instrmenats tat will
be usable wthin the privat party (consume) sectr. In addion, this phase will incoorate mode
telecommunicatio and computing technologies to mpwove the speed, reliablity, convenice and cost
effetveness of the nation's payment system.
22.    his phase of the project is expected to include a visitation program to one or two countriD to
enable key Ukriian payment system decision makers to enhance their first hand knowledge of other
payment system insttuments and models. Such a prgram is expected to commence at the begiing of
this phas. Wotk to be undertaken during the second phase includes:
(a) Need Assessm. The system design must be market driven, beginning with an assessment of
business and consumer needs. As businesses are privazed, the volumes and service level needs
are expected to grow.
Ob) Pament Insmnem Design. Each developed ountry employs a Variety of paymet intum
to sati*s the diverse needs of the consumer, business and Inter-bank payment markets. Ihe
proposed payment intument set must be broad enough to meet needs, but not so broad as to be
operaionally inefficient. The instrument set may include debit and/or credit based insumes.
electoic paper and/or card based instruments, and batched and/or on-ine based instrumens.
(c) Cearing and Seume  Syts. As with payme  instruments, the clearing and settlement
options are numerous and include clearinghouse, correspondent and/or centr  bank clearings;
g-OSs mullaedl  and/or bilateral settlement; daylight, overnight and or collatized overdrft
controls; centra bank and/or commer  coespondt bank setlement; and provisional or fia
selement and dming/terms of finality. Proposals for clearing and settlement must take into
account the unique payment flows and banking structure within Ukaine as well as the systems
Implemented during the first phase.
(d) Stnda.  Payment isrment standards wiI be developed to ens  ibank and, idealy,
regional FSU compatibility. Standads include such issues as bank and customer acount
numbering structures, machine readable technique and formats, electronic fonrms and interf
standards, card based standards, hours of operaion, and timing of entries. Stards will be
based upon approved international standards that have proven viable in other countries.
(e) Tedcnological  frasttn*re.  A technological infastucture, including ruiremet for
telecommunicatbos equipment, computers, and special purpose devices such as check reader
sorers and software will be specified and competively prurd with project financing.
(t) Legal and Reguatory. The legal and regulatory framework developed in Phase 1 wiUl be
broadened as necessary to incorporate new instuments and end users. Such a famework is
necessay to gain te confidence of the users in order to promote appropriate usage of the
(g) Safety and Secuity. The system definiuon will ensure that the significant risks inherent in
systems that transfer large sums of money are properly addressed. Risk contol procedures must
cover credit risk, fraud risk, risk of unauthorized access and risk of delays due to system outages.



-23-
0) Owne0hi and Cowo. Issues such as the ownership and control of the system(s) wiU be
defined. hese options Include NBU ownership, single commercial bank ownership and/or joint
ownerhidp. In additin to who owns the system(s), the control of rale making, proedural
changes, and access to the system will be defined.
i) Cos Ef1iency and Recowy. Capital and opeating cost recovery medtods for the system wIll
be defned. Options for cost recovery include cost sharing teiques, per item  hrges, equity
ow ship contribuions, an initial subsidies (if ncessary) to promote use with longer term
recovery. Joint ownership can be on a break-oven or for-profit basi, with fees set accordingy.
In the final analysis, if the system is cost efficiett, it should be possible to recover Its costs
through us  fes. If the system Is not cost effective, eith though over-enginern or lack of
market responsiveness, It will be Impossible to filly recover costs over the long run.
I) nrabank Daign. The ierbank system will be fed by and feed into each bank's Intibank
system. For example, if the baks develop their own intrabank clearing and communications
system, the interbank system will have less volume and significantly less co ication
demands. During the interbank development phase it wfll also be necesary to wotk with the
large commercial banks to develop and refine ilntal plans based upon interbank considerations.
23.   Bank Acounti  Reformn (US$03 tltlen). Accounting and audiig reform are essentaW for
the development of a market economy and the integradon of Ukraine into the international ecmomy. The
adoption of new accounting and auditing principles consistent with intenaional Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP) for the commercial banking sector and the corporate sector wIll require
significant effrt in a number of areas: (a) the adoption of a legal framework seting out the new
acounti  priniples; (b) the development of a trategy for accunng reform, Includi  the required
tansitional arrangements; (c) significant institutional strengthening of the agencies in char of developing
and implementing the refms, as well as the establishment of professional bodies and certfication
requirements; and (d) massive raining of trainers, practitoners and future professionals in toth fields.
24.   At present, commercial banks cotinue to use the former Gosbank's Forms-254 and 700 for their
financial reporting. The latter forms were established by Gosbank, the Central Bank of the FSU, to serve
the informational requirements of a centrally planned economy. Gosbank's reporting requirements aimed
at controlling the direction and use of funds accrding to the instuctions of the national development plan
and are clearly inadequate for a more decentralized and market-oriented economy. In the past there was
little room for accounting to serve as a decision-making instrument. Equally important, the lack of an
adequate loan classification system and the various accountg coventions of the Gosbank system lead
to financial staemens which are grossly misleadig and inadequate for bank managers, for the NBU to
exercise its supervisory and regulatory fuictions, and fbr providing maningfil financial infomation to
other users.
25.   The project will support the NBU's objective of modernizing the accounting and reporting system
in the finmcial ector in order to harmonize it with intenaional practices. The project objectves are to
carry out the upstream work necessary to initiate the process of accounting reform in Ukraine's banking
sector, as well as to train a selected group of central bank staff (accountas, bank supervisors and system
specialists) and the most senior accountants in the commercial banking sector. Specifically the project
would provide for the rapid adoption of the required reforms in bank accounting, introduction of a new
Chart of Accounts," and training a core group of senior bank accouns and supervisors. It would
finance a one week seminar in Kiev in the fall of 1993 to explain the BAFS systm, expert assistance



- 24 -
required to undertake pilot projects at commercial banks applying the new accounting methodology and
formats, six months of consulting services in accounting prior to the adoption of the system, two months
of consulting services to provide assistance to NBU's Computer Center in software development; and a
one month intensive training program for senior bank acountas. Complemenwty activities are being
financed by the EC and the UK Know How Fund.
26.   The proje  will be conducted in thee phases. During the fhrst phase, the BAPS will be
iroduced to a group of senior cental and commercial bank accountan  and NBU supervisors. 'Me
second phase will consist of providing consulting assistance to the NBU and banking industry to develop
the conceptu  famework and a detailed stategy for implemenion of the BAPS and new Chart of
Accoun. Several pilot experimes woud be initiated. The final phase will be to provide consuling
assistnce and training in the implemention of the proposed system, including new reporting formats
and softwae for their proceing. The required taining for bank accounts and auditors will be
coordinated with the actvities of other donors, in particular the EC, UK Know How Fund and USAID
and with the accounting reform i the corporate sector (EC) and the NBU (IMP).
27.    nitudonl Development of Banks (US$1.9 mnlion). The econoiuc environment for the
bankig sector iS a difficult one-high inflation, contraction of outpu, fall in per capita incomes, highly
ngative real iterest rates, severe decline in financia intmediation, poor financial information from
customers, and highly distorted relative prices. Transidonal strais in the enteprise sector magnify the
pressure on the banks. These include a structure of production heavly skewed towards military output,
large enteprise amars, and the undercapitalization of enterprises incasing systemic risks in the financial
sector. Moreover, weak legal and reglatory norms, and low enforcement capaciq, in addition to the
proliferation of small under-capitalized banks, undermine the resliency of the banking system.
28. Banking institutions in Ukraine need to improve their financial results and their effectiveness In
the deveopment of the Ukrainian economy through strengthening many aspect of their organi ,
inclui  business stratees, products and services, ogon  structure, management systems,
operations, automation and skills. They are not prepared to function effectively or efficiendy in a market-
based financia system. Moreover, as new financial policies are introduced by the Ukrainian monetary
utrities, it will be necessary for the banks to respond to the changes in their operating environment.
Given the long lead time for extensive reform of a banking institution, it is essenti to sart instdoal
development even as policy refrms are still being designed. Experience has shown that the absence of
suona capaciy and skills is a major impediment to the pace and success of financial sector reform.
The project will support broad financial sector reforms by starting the reform and modernization of the
istitnal fiamework of two of the largest exiting baks.
29.   In order to ensure a rapid and efficient trnasition towards autonomous, competitive commercal
banking in a maket environmn  the Government envisages that the technical assistance services would
be provided to two or three Ukrainian banks by reputable iational consulting firms or banks under
a contatu arrangement, which could include a provision for an ongoing future commercial relationship
between the Ukrainian bank and the foreign bank. Ihe assistance will be conducted in two phases, a
diagnostic and planning phase, and an implementation phase. The diagnostic and planning phase, to be
conducted over a period of about fur months, will include a diagnostic review of the concerned bank,
preparation of a preliminary strategic plan, refinement of the bank's automation plan, a trining needs
analysis, and preparation of a detiled insfitutional development program. The implementatio2 phase,
to contue for two or ftree years as defineu in the institutional development program, will include the
actions neceary to moderize the bank and start to meet its strategic objectives. With the present



-25-
ailocatlon Of fnds the project would provide consulting services for only the first 12 to 18 months of
phase 2. If required, addidonal assistance would be sought from a re-allocation of project funds,
additonal parallel financing, or a possible future Bank finaal sector loan.
30.   Phae I-Dagnosti and Plannig. nis phase woWld consist of a broad diagnostic review of the
bank, a preliminay strategic plan, refinement of the bank's automation plan, a training needs anaysis,
and an ntidtonal deveopment program.
(a) Dlagnosik Revew. The diagnsc review will cover all major area of the bank and focus on
identifying major instiudonal developme needs. 'Me foilowing analyses and reviews, ier alla,
will be undertaken:
OI)   Enviromental analysis: Identfication of the key aspects of the economic environment,
conditions affectng customers, the regulatory environment, legal and social constaits,
and the outlook in these areas.
()  Financial analysis of the bank (based on avalable data): the balance sheet, profit and
loss stment, main costs and revenue streams, quaity of the loan 1prio, capial
posion, branch profitability, and the pricing/profitability of main products.
(di)  Market analysis:  Identification of the bank's market position; its strngths and
weaknesses vis-a-vis market needs.
(iv)  Competitor analysis: Idenification of the bank's competive position; its strengths and
weakneses vis-a-vis importan competitors.
(v)  Pduct/servicoe analysis: An inventory of the bank's products and services, a broad
assessment_of thdir market attractiveness,        and profitability.
(vi)  Organiaional Review. The organizational sture of the bank will be reviewed to
determine whether it provides for effective and efficient realization of the bank's
stategies and objectives. The study should take into account areas such as the ban's
ovance structue, the need for additional functo, the gruping of main functons,
delegation of authority, clear defindon of responsbilities, and the relationships among
head-office, regional, and branch offices.
(vii) Management Review. The study will review the adequacy of exisng management
processes (e.g., decision-making, communications and goal-sein, wmagement staff
quaifications, and staffing policies.
(vii) Review of Planning, Budgeting and Performace Meurment Process. A review of the
bank's procedures for planning, budgeting, establishing perf ance measures and
monitorng prformanc. The long-term goal should be to establish such a process for
the bank overail, for each staff unit, and each line unit
(lx) Review of Credit Policy, Pr3cedures and Risk Management. Ihe stdy will review the
policies and procedures required for ffectve management of the entire credit process
from origination through credit approval, monitoring, and problem loan management.



-26 -
Paricular attention will need to be paid to the existce of effective irnal controls;
procedures for assessing and dealing with credit risk; classifying loans; monitoring and
following up overdue payments and arreas; and delegation of credit auhority to the
region and branch levels.
(x)  Review of Treury Management. The review will appraise the effectiveness and
adequay of treasury management, including procees (and ifomton and skills) for
managing exposure to changes in  n terest rates, ign exchange rsk Including trading
limits, liquidity management, maintaining capital adequacy, and accountig and
rluation procedures. Methods of ealiing, reconciling ad controlling foreign
correpondent bank accounts should be assessed. Particular aention should be paid to
the bank's needs in effecting international settlements. 'he review should indicate areas
for possible improvements in the bank's present policies and procedures.
(xi) Review of Accouting and Management Information. The study will review the existing
accountin and management information systems and indicate areas for improvemes.
Accountig systems wi need to be adapted to the new BAFS and Chart of Accounts
being intioduced in Ukraine for the baking system by the NBU. In the itim,
modifications to the exisfing accounting sysem  may be appropriate.
(xui) O ations Review. The study will review the bank's operanal capity and needs,
control and efficiency, paying particular ateion to branch operations and inter-bach
clearing.
(xfli) Review of Training Needs and Human Resource Management The study will review
the bank's specific skdl needs for management, professional/technical, and key
clerical/adminisftrive positions. The bank's training and development infrstructure w.ill
be assessed as well as key human resource management processes.
(xiv) Review of Internal AudiL The stud, wM review intern  cotols and produres, and
the inten  audit function, with a view to determining their effectiveness in ensuring that
the bank's assets are safeguarded, asactions have been eected In accordance with
'a directives, and th  transactions have been adequately recorded to permit
the timely preparaon of fte bank's financial satme   i accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.
(b) PhellMny Srategc Plan. The Ukrainian banking sector is in a period of rapid change. Each
commercal bank has many opportunities and aces many threats. It is extremely important to
clday assess these opporunities and reas and build a stey for the bank ta will lead to
achieving a strong market position, competive advantage, and long-tm fnancial success. The
consltant will work with management to develop a prelimnay strategy that defines the
Instituional vision of the bank, fianci  objectives, organizational and humnm resource
development objectives, target maket, main products and services, main distibuion channels,
competive posWoning, priority stategies and actions articularly the isttutional development
actions) required to meet Its objectives, and a financial plan that projects resource reqtirements
and financial outcomes of the sftategy.



-27 -
(c) Refinement of the Bank's Aomadon Plan. Tbe bank's automation plan will be reviewed in light
of the new strategic plan and the intionat development program that will be developed under
the project. Adjustme  in the plan may be needed to support new developments being called
fo in the sategic plan. In addition, system development and Installation priorities may need to
be changed.
(d) Traini Needs Analysis. The consult wll conduct a taining needs analysis of key jobs within
management, professionaltechnical and clerical/administaive ranks in the main fuctions of the
bank. The purpose of the training needs analysis will be to identify the specific priorities for
training that the bank must meet in the first, second and third years after the diagnostic.
(e) Instkatlonal Dewopment Program. Based on the diagnostic review, the strategic plan and any
other relevant input, the consultant will prepare a development program for the bank which will
Include: the actions that must be taken to "modernize* the bank and execute its strategic plan;
specific work plans for each action; a prioritized sequence and schedule for the actions, taking
into consideration the organization's capacity to absorb change; and an outline of the required
resources to carry out the plan.
31.   Phase 2-Impleentn. lhe work in this phase will be defined by the instonal development
plan, includin initial steps in restructuring the balance sheet,   g Iztion and resmffing, tainig in
the highest priority areas, implementg priority components of the credit process, implementng priority
components of the treasury/asset and liability m emnt proes, staring to build the new a g
system, improvig prr products and services and their pricing, Impvn high-leverage oraional
areas, inii steps in branch rationalization, detailed automation planning for new functions, implementing
priority component of the hiuman resource mangement system, selected i Vements in marketi  and
customer sevie, fill automation (n accordance with the automation plan), development of the
magement ibrmadon system,        entation of a planning, budgeting, and performance meaurement
systm  refiement of markeing techniques, development of the interal auditing system, and renement
of the strategic plan
Pubic Eonomic ad Final Mt (US14.1 minon)
32.   The public ecomic and fancial managment conmp      will provide assce in five areas:
(a) the establishment of a treasry system in the Minstry of Finae, (b) mer      of tax
ni , (c) modernization of the statistical system, (d) strengtening the economic anaysis
capacity of the Mimistry of Economy, and (e) support to a project Inplementaion unit for the Insdtution
Building ProecL
33.   Tresury System (US$9.3 million). The tsury s    ent will support the implementation
of a treasury system in the Ministry of Finance (MOF). It was prepared in close colaboration with the
Fiscal Affas  Deptm  of the IM. Ihe subcomponent would finance: external advisers, in addition
to those o be supplied by the IMP; trin  of Ukrainin staff and the preparation of training materials;
and the provision of equipment, principally computrs and software.
34.   Under tral planng, the MOF played a subordinate role, redistribtn the surpluses of the
public enterprise sector in the form of subsidies and transfers. Prices were largely accounting entries and
bore little remblance to what would be derived by market frces. Decisions on resoaurce allocation were
taken by the central planning apparatus, based in Moscow, for implementation by republic bodies. The



-28-
tucture and stffig of the MOF today reflects In larg measure this previous system. Ihe creaon of
a tevasury departme that wil manage budget execution is an essential step to meet the needs of financial
in a market economy. Th present system does not relate expendi    reaiically to
likely revenues, lacks the capacity to adjust budget execWtion quicldy, and It does not produce reliable
fisa data in a timely manmer. To adapt the MOF to the new environment requires a combination of
organzational change, the shedding of some functions and the acquisiion of ohiers, the devslopment of
new system of finanal mangement. coupled with substantial staff training and re-equipment. Progess
being made in such a direction. ln October 992, a new Depaent for Budget Execution was
established, which is well placed to evolve into a fii-fledged Treasu  Departn.
35.   Moving to a treasary system implies fundametal changes in the way the budget is implementd.
It aso implies the introduction of new sytems of csh flow management and revenue and expenditue
forecastig, the issuance of treasury bills, and the placement of deposits with the banking system earing
nter. Fmally, it implies the creation of a register of goverment intal and external debt and the
managemen (and refection in the budget) of interest paymens and amortzation. Functions hitherto
underalken by the banking system will be moved to the Ministry, and new capacities created for financial
reporing and financl forecasting. Scope will also be created for improving the accounting system and
introducing modern systems of financal management.
36.   Presenty, the paymet system of the state budget is highly decentralized, makin  t difficult to
contol expendte, fund the budget deficit efficiently, and achieve fil targets. Mnisty and oblast
spending units have individual bank accounts with commerci banks. Both revenue payments into the
accunts and expenditures out of them are made with little effective record keeping and reporng of
trsactions to the MOF. Monthly limits for expendiures are set, but these are based on expenditure
levels approvd in the annual budget, and bear no relation to revenues actually collected. Ineed, with
some revenues paid into the bank accounts of spending unib directy, and netted out with  ,
the scope for tacking revenues with any degree of accuracy is extremely limited. Commercia banks,
on their part, report balances to the NBU on a regular basis; but there are delays in reportig, and
whout inmation on the transactions that have gien rise to these balances, the MOP cannt
satsfactorily assess how the budget is being implemented. There is no system of commiment recording
and control, and thus of assesing the government's budgetary liabilities, and how they will affect budget
outr. The MOF can only identify net cash expendit   on a highly aggregate basis. As spending
plans are based on apopriatons rather than revenues collected, spndig is not brought into line with
resource, and the resulting deficit is financed by central bank credi.
37.   The project would support the creation of a treuy system that would centalize payment
approvals. Payments would either have to be registered direcdy in the cowmputezed treasury system or
be approved by the Treasury Departmet or Treay Unis under its control in regions and districts.
For units not directly linked to the system, payment orders generated by ministry spending units would
fist require validation by Treasury Units, which would check both appropriation levels and spending
warrants to see that the payment request was in line with the budget esdmaes and monthly spending
limits set by the MOF, based on resource availability. Transactions would be recorded by the
government accoundng system as expenditures occur, thereby providing the basis for up-t-date fancial
management information and reporting systems. Crucial to the successful introduction of a treasury
system will be a move from the present accommod   stance towards ministry expenditures to an
approach that deliberately limits expenditure to the resources available, in this way ensuring that fiscal
targets would be met.



-29-
38.   The flrst step wJIl be to tight  the management of the extig system by adjustig the mothlY
sponding plans In line with resourc, and informing the commercial baks that expdiue  eIn ss of
plans by spending units would not automatically be reimbursed by the NBU. Tb next steP wi be tO
intce the new treauy system in parallel with the traditiona system, by peatig the new system
on a pflot basis in the MOF, a single oblast, and one or two spending misties. When the system has
be  tested, adapted to local conditions, and stff have been trained, It would be extded to all maJor
ministry spending units and oblasts.
39.   The ptoject would assist the MOF in the imple ai  of a treasury systm in tr  stage each
of a    ately one year duration. Phase I will cosist of immediate improvement of contols usb
th exst  system, prelmary desip of the teasy oganizon structure amd banking uangmet,
desig andestablihment of an inte   system, and detailed deig, evaluation and seecion of system
software and brware. Phase 2 will include pilot implm _ion of the system for the central treasuy
department, one or two spending ministries direcy linked to the system, and one oblas treasury unit.
Phae 3 will provide for full implemenaion of the system in major spending agendes and regionl
treasury units.
40.   The project would provide a senior teasury advisor for 24 months (Mf-financed), a
treasury/accounting advisor for 24 monts, 24 person-months of system design experts, a treasury traing
avisor for 12 months, and aim ately 90 person-mounts of loca sytms ar-dysts and prgammers.
Ihe senior treay advior would ensmre dta all technical inputs are codind ad would play an
importat rols in establishing the  macroeconomic frmework for treasyop uas.  Ib
treasy/accunting advisor would provide assistac in desipgg and implemeng a treasury   ou
system and training local staff in accounting procedes. In pardcular he would desg accounting fom
and prcedure, develop training material, and help with cnlepal speciicato  for system desgn.
Te systm design experts would assist in desig of the computerized accounting system and fanci
managemet infonration system, specification and selecton of software and hardwae to implement the
syem, and training of local staff in system design ad main c. The truy  trn    advisor would
develop appropriate traiing material, icluding prepaation of a Tresr Mual, and help develop and
run courses to train local staff. Shorterm assistac is also envisaged in drafting budget legWislation,
budget claification, evaluation of hardware options, introduction of a book-entry system for pvenmt
secuities, and implemenation of various aspect of the system aRer the inia devepmen phs. The
project will also finance the softw    and hardware required to design, pilot test, and implemnt a
computerize treasy system.
41.   Phase I-Del gn. The first step, appointment of a Task Force in the Try to supervise and
direct the introduction of the treasury system, is to be taken no later than September 1, 1993. It will be
comprised of senior officials from the new Treasury Department, the Budget Prearion Deament,
the Account Depment, the Personnel Department (because of the substatl staff trni  and
expansion required in later stages of the project), the NBU, the Computer D pamen, an oblast office,
and a user ministry.
42.   The adviory team's main task during this phase will be to desig the new sysnem, focussing in
the first place on the structre of the Treasy Department and helping division and uni managers defin
their new fmctions and introduce new methodologies. Pilot oblast and ministies would be selectd for
the next phase of the project and new banking arrangements devised. The systems design advisr(s)
would design the system specifications, in coopa n wih local countpa. This would requie
software to be evaluated and selected, and suitable computer equipment chosen for system dewdopment



-30-
and tetg. The sstems woud be installed in the pilot oblasitmines and the MOP. Ukraiaa
taiug materia for the piot stage would also bepred.
43.   At hs stage in the deiofheproject, it s premo  to set ou  e chal specificadons fir
the computer equipment and software to be prcured. However, software and hardwae would need to
be capable of handling a large volume of trsactons and multiple taskL as part of a network. For the
purposes of system devopment and pilot applications, personal computers are specified for the trsury
units and the MOF. The possible need for a minicompute at the MOF will be examined in Phase 2.
44.   Phase 2-Pilot 4ap   on. Phase 2 would consist of the application of the Tury system in
the pilot minstie and oblast  Trini  of unit staff by the advisoy team would be undertake,
hardware ob ed ad installed, and the system tesed and evaluated. A nmber of ancillary tasks would
also have to be undertaken at this time, including drfting a new organic budget law. In conrast to the
annual budget law which dermines approprations, the organic law would specify the principles,
preparation, approva, reportg and auditing requirm     for budgetmg and the associated instonal
responsibilities, emphasizing the new role and duties of the MOF. Amongst the latter would be a
requirement for the Ministry to frame the budget within a macroeconomic framework consistent with
price stability and economic growdt, and to make explicit the target fiscal balance of the budget, and
authorizing it to make adjustment to revenues and expendiures in the course of the year if shortfals are
judged likely. In addition, the new organic law would authorize the Treasury Department to issue
Treauy biUs to financial institions and the genal public as an instrument of cash management and
budget fiacing, subject to certain limits. Accompanying the new organic law would be revised financial
regulats, issued by the MOP, spefyig in greater detail the pwcedure to be followed In budget
implementation and related areas.
45.   Phase 3-Jplmeati    The final stage will be expnding the teasury system fiom pilot stage
to ful ImVementation, after the lessons from the pilot stage have been absorbed and any necessary
modifications made. In addition to the pruement of equpment needed for implemtion of the
sysem, exteasive taining will be undertaken in this phase. Key steps here are the preparation of training
material and the tWaining of trainers. Training material wlll be prepared by the advisory team. Trainers
will be drawn from the ranks of existing training staff from institutions that currently give 3-4 week
refresher courses to Ministry, oblast and rayon staff. Detailed training plans will be prepared in phase
2 and suitable locations and trainers identified. Given the Sae of the underaking, and the need for
periodic refresher trainig of staff, it is envisioned that traing capacity for public fnaci management
be institutionalized, and continued on a permanent basis by the Ministry. Training materials for the new
system will be thoroughly tested in trainers workshops. In addition to the traning of trainers and
traury unit staff, the project will provide for a limited number of study tours for selected staff of the
Treaury Department branches to rep ive treasury departments in other countries, so that they can
see aspects of modern trmury management and budgeting first hand and understand better the basic
techniques involved.
46.   Ta Administration (US$1.5 milon). The State Tax Inspectorate (STI) was established in 1991
with the responsibility for the adminiion and enforcement of the tax laws of Ukraine. The SmI
administes the tax system through a headquarters office in Kiev which is supported by 27 regional
(oblast) tax offices and 745 local (rayon) offices. Total STI staff in 1992 was approximately 19,000.
47.    Ihe Government's ecnomic reform program poses major challenges for the STI. Currenty,
the tax administration faces the task of improving the compliance of a rapidly increasing  nber of



-31 -
taxpayers who are no longer under the direct control of the governe   This task iS complicated by the
sweeping changes in the tax system, suh as the recet reform of the corpor  Income and value-added
taxes and the Introduction of aew personal income and ecise taxes. Responding to these challenges will
require a thorough modeion of the STI's ornion structure, procedures and data processing
sy5teW
48.  'Me main problem fcing the S1 is to achieve acceptable iNvels of tax compliance under a
funmentally diffet set of economic conditions. Currendy, tax admistraton is based on an
ganizational structu  and procedures developed during the period of central planning. With the
tansition to a market economy, numerous shortcomings have become evident. The lack of specalization
among staff has resuld In low productivity. The lewd of productiit has been futher reduced by the
reliance on manual procedures for data prcessi. Moreover, the ntoduction of new tax laws has not
been accompanied by the development of standardized foms, proceues and taxpayer informution. As
a result, the tax law has been applied inconsishteny across local offices, which is leading to decliig
compliance as taxpayers come to view the laws as arbitrary and unfair. Finally, the current tax filing
prcedures impose unnecessary burdens on taxpayers. The lack of readily available tax reus and
information on how to complete them, coupled with the need to make aumerous visits to the tax offie,
make compliance with the tax laws difficult for taxpayers.
49.   The Govenmen's long-tem goal with respect to the tax administion is to ensure    the
orgnization and procedures of the SII are compatible with a more liberalized economic enviroment.
A more efficient tax administrton will be essetial f governmen revenue requirments are to be met
without resorting to excessive tax rates and highly distortionary taxes. Achieving this gWal wll requr
the development of accurte revenue collection, staistia reportg, and compliance monioring systems
as soon as possible. The development of thase systems should be guided by the objecdves of reducing
the tax compliance burdens facing taxpayers, generatig additonal revenue through improved voluntary
compliance, and significantly increasing producvity throughout the Sn-.
50.   The proposed tax adminisation pilot subcomponent, which will be supported by the IMP, the
EC and the Bank, will provide comprized systems to at least four locad offices, the Kiev regional office
and the headquarters of the Sm'. Subject to evaluation and availability of finamce, the pilot systems are
expected to be expanded to other regional and local offices. In addition to the development of computer
systems, the pilot project will involve changes in o  stucture, simplification of procedur,
provision of training and operational mamuals, designing and distributing regtraon and tax return
forms, conductng an intive publicity campaign informing taxpayers in the pilot area of their
responsibilities and rights, and negotiating a contcual agreement with the banks regarding their
obligadons in the collection of revenue.
51. At the local level, computer systems will be developed to assign taxpayer identification numbers
(N), maintain a register of taxpayers who have been assigned TINs, process tax returns an payment
documents, account for the revenue collected by the banks, monitor taxpayer compliance with filing and
payment requirements, calculate and apply penalty interest, perform inital screening of refunds claimed,
select returns for audit, update accounts with additional liabilities or credits arising from audit activiies,
and produce timely management reports. At the regional level, computer systems will be designed to
periodically consolidate the data from the local offices, maintain back-up copies of the master files for
the local offices, transmit to headquarters data from the local offices, and produce timely management
reports. At headquarters, a computer system will be developed to control the issuance of TINs,
consolidate data from all regions for statistical purposes, maintain back-up copies of the regionally-



- 32 -
coolidated master flies, develop and maintin application software, satsy reportig requirement to
other agies, and prepare management reports.
52.   The pilot project will serve as a prtope for other regional and local tax offices. Prior to
completon of the project, some of the newly tested methods and procedures will be ready for applicadon
to other offices. At the sme time, work will continue on enhancing and refining the pilot office system.
53.   Implementation of the project will fundamentally transform tax adminit in Ukraine
providing significant benefits to taxpayers, the STI, the banking industry, and the economy at large.
Specific benefit will be realized by taxpayers by reducing the burdens of complying with the tax law.
New sytm and procedures will assist taxpayers by expediting the delivery of tax forms, reducing the
number of encounters with the tax administration, and providing quick responses to questions. The tax
adminIstrtio will beneit by inasg productivity throughout the Sm1. Modern systems will lead to
a higher degree of data integrity, more timely and apprpiate management reports, and ro-allocation of
staff fom cerical to more productive tasks. Tbese benefits will reduce many of the costs of the present
system, thereby raising overall productivity. The baking industry will benefit by simplifying their
functions in the collecion process and placing their services on a clearly commercial basis. Finally, the
ecnomy at large will benefit by generating revenues through improved voluntary compliance. Improved
liance will allow the government to raise the neeed revenue at a lower cost.
54.   The STI wil implement the subcomponent, which will be joindy financed by the IMP, the EC,
and the proposed Bank loam  A full-ime national project director will be appointed by the Head of the
STI. He/she will be responsible for the full implementation program in all offices, the establishment and
mantnance of liaison with thrd parties, obtainig the necesary clearances and decisions on critical
iss fDr the pilot project and for planning the extesion of appropriate plot project componenm to other
regional and local offices. A team of six experienced STI officers and a minimim of eight nadonal
programmers will also work full-tie on the pilot project.
55. The IMP will provide overall coordination, experts to provide on-site assistance, and technical
back-up to the on-site staff. In particular, it wfll provide a resident tax adminisotrn expert to advisw
and assist the project team on orgnization, sytems development, training, do on  and
prcedur, and management information outputs. The EC will prowve a long-term advisor to coordinat
all trn and taxpayer education actvities, electronic data processing exper to assist the nadonal
project team, procurment asstace, an audit expert, and extive training. The proposed Bank loan
would face the acquisition of software development tools, and computer equipment for four local
offices.
56.   Minisy of Ststcs (US1.4 millon). The system of statistics in Ukraine is now reglated
by the Law on Statistics adopted on September 17, 1992. Based on dtis general Law the Miisty of
Statscs has prepared a draft Program which will be submitted to the Government for approval. A
related concept paper on the development of the national stistical system bas also been drafted. The
latter is prepared in broad terms, and the former is supplemented by an outline of concrete tasks,
timetable and responsible agencies.
57.   The priorities defined in the Program are: (a) adoption of iterionl methodological standards;
(O) compilation of SNA type acowuts including input-output tables and intaional comparisons of
GDP; (c) basic changes in primary dMa compilation at the eneprise level; (d) improved balance of
payment estomaon; (e) collection of price and unemployment statstics; (f) intrduction of a natonal



33 -
regier of reporting entities; (g) training of statisticians; and (O) wide innational cooperation in the area
of statitics and accounting. The tasks envisioned in the program are to be completed in the period 1993-
95. lhe broad tasks are outlined in a timetable with assigned implementation responsibilities. The
progm will, however, require considerable refinement, including emphasis on a broad introduction of
sample surveys to replace direct reportng for most data collection. Assistance will be required to specUjr
ptiority areas and detailed work programs for restructuring of the statistical system, both with regard to
the adoption of new methodologies and the production of statistics in new areas such as SNA, the balance
of payments, and price Indices.
58.   The project would support the envisioned institutional changes in the staistical system by
providig assistance to refine the Ministry's program documents referred to above and to render them
operational. In particular, the project would finance approximately 12 person-months of consultant
services for the Ministry to finalize the insftitional resturing program, prepare a training program,
and start implementation of both. This assistance would be closely coordinated with and complementary
to the work of a longerm statistics advisor to be provided by the EBRD. Istiuonal changes, once
adopted, will also imply new equipment needs in the Ministry. The project will finance an information
systems specialist to prepare specific reco ions on hardware and software needs and, based on
these recommendations, subsequent purchase of priority computer equipment
59. Ministry of Economy (US$1.6 mnillon). The Ministry of Economy has been assigned a lead role
in the development of a comprehensive reform program, as well as in the overall coordination of the
poosed Institution Building Project. In addition to specific assistance in project implementaion matters,
the project would provide approximately seven person-months of short-term consultant services to the
Minisy to ast  it in specific areas of economic policy fomation, including macro policy analysis,
project analysis, and procurement refm   This assistane would complement the economic advisory
assace to be provided under a US$0.5 millon grant from the Netherlands. The project would also
finance a major training effort for the staff of the Ministry and a small amount of computer equipment
for key depatments.
B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
60.   Implentatlon Arra ents. The Cabinet of Minists of Ukrine has appointed the First
Deputy Minister of Economy to be responsible for implementation of this first World Bank-financed
project in Ukraine. In this capacity he also chairs a coordinating committee composed of represatives
of the Ministy of Finance, State Property Fund, Anti-Monopoly Committee, National Bank of Ukrine
and other agencies directy involved in execution of particular subcomponents. The project wil be
adminstered on a day-to-day basis by the Ukrainian project manager, who was appointed pror to
negotiations of the loan. Ministries and agencies which are beneficiaries of Bank assistance will be
responsible for the implementon of those activities under their jurisdiction and will report regulaiy to
the project manager. Final tems-of-reference have been agreed for consultant services for small
enterrise priviatlon, payments systm, accounting, and bank instiutional support, which reprsnt
appimately 60 percent of total consultant costs. Draft tms-of-reference for other subcomponets
havealsobeenprepared. Alltems-of-referenceareavalableintiheprojectfiles. Projectimplementation
will extend over a three year period.
61.   The project manager heads a small unit in the Cabinet of Minister's Dprtment of Relations with
International Financial Int ons responsible for project ai on, hereafter referred tV as the



-34 -
project implementation unit. the Department has been staffed with capable officials and reports directly
to the Firt Deputy Ministe of Economy for this purpose. The unit will be responsible for review of
proposals for the selection of consultants or procurement of goods under the project, advise beneficiay
inistries and agencies on proeme procedures, mainti project accous, verify paymets due under
project contcs, coordinate the udtlzaton of the unallocated part of the toa  corlinae all other actions
among beneficiay minstries and agencies to ensure dmely and effective project implemenation, and
monitor project implemenation. The training and experience received by members of the unit in
implmentIng Ithis project is also expected to facilitate implementation of fiture Bank-financed projects.
The project wil fince oonsultant services (IS person-months) on project implementaion matters,
including prcurement, to assist the unit, and basic office equipment for the unit. Training of government
staff on procurm     and disbursement mauer has been iiated with the assistance of Wodd Bank staff
and will continue during project implementaion.
62.   PrJect Costs. The total project cost is esmated at US$29.0 million equivalent. Detailed cost
estimates are shown in the following table. All local costs have been converted to USS at an exchange
rat of Krb 2,000 per USS. Costs have been subjected to codntgencies of 4.0 percent to cover both
physical amd price contingencies, in line with the Bans present price projections. The estimatea for
studies, consultancy assig_nents and training are based on typical cuet costs for such assigments.
There would be a substaal involvement of internationally recruited consultants in all the project
components.  he project would also finace equipment
63.   Fhnneng. A summary of the project financing plan, which was agreed during negotiations, is
shon in Schedule A. the foreigl exchange cost requirements are esmated at US$27.0 million. The
local cu      requirements approximy US$2.0 milion) would be met by the Borrower from its own
resources and from available grant fundg. The World Bank loan would finae  100 pecent of the
forei  exchange costs. The Govenm    of Ukraine would be the bonrower and, through   inistry
of Finace, would channel the necessary funds to the beneficiary agencies as part of the budgetary
process. In addition, parael facing of US$16.9 million has been identified from the ECITACIS,
EBRD, the Netherands, UK Know-How Fund, and the IMP. If additional grant financing becomes
aaable for specific acties or componens, swch resources could substtu for Bank financing. In this
eet, th proposed Bank loan would either be reduced by a corresponding amount or be used for
additional related acties.



-35-
TABLE 1: COST AND FINANCING SUMMARY
World 8     Logn                            Meft
US$uo    VUSSWo    USV#          vssloo
ENTERPRISE EPORM
Cia and Oblsts                    13S0       600         300      2,250        S00   Netlorls
PM otiaizsion                      4S0         0           0        450      5,117   EC
0      1,131   EBRDlJap
De-Monopoliation                   300       350         535       1,185
-advio                             -         -           -          -         250   UK
Publc Infbnnation Cmpaign           90       300           0        390
P*wattoa stat                       -          -           -          -      2,142   BERDIEC
Negtiadons Asitn                          -                -          -        833   BC
SUBTOTAL                         2,190      1,250        835       4,273     9,973
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Payments System                    450       150       J,900      2,500
Acougting
-fnancial instius                 180       1o0          50        330
-.woomtng 3Sdas-                                                    -         357   BC
-trining                           -         -           -          -         745   UK
Intitutionl Support to Dauk      1,620       300           0       1,920
sBanr uirslhg                       -          -           -          -      3,213   BC
SUBTOTAL                         2,250       550        1,950     4,750      4,315
PUBLIC ECONOMIC & FINANCLAL MANAGEMENT
TSay ISystman                    1,080       200       8,000       9,280
-Tseasury advisor                  -         -           -          -         360   RAP
Tx Admaion
-Advisors                          -         -           -          -         355   IM
-Advisors & pilot equipment        -         -           -          -         714   eC
-Compuw equlPuent                  0          0       1,50       1,500
Min- ty of Staisi                  180       180       1,000       1,360       180   eDaD
Midstry of Economy                 105      1,200        300       1,60S
Economic Policy Advisots            -          -           -          -        500   Nedm&ads
PRo    Imlemnit                    230        SO          50        330
Aid Coorination                      -         -                     -0        500   Ntdbelands
SUBTOTAL                         1,59       1,630      10,850     14,075     2,609
TOTAL                              6,035     3,430      13,635     23,100     16,897
Unalocatd & Contingendos                                            3,000
PPF Refinanig                                                        900
,TOTAL (ig unalocatd                                               27,000



-36 -
64.   DisbuVSnUuts. Disbursements would be adminiered by the Deparlment for Relations with
inteational Financial Instions in the Cabinet of Mste. The proceeds of the World Bank loan
would finance 100 percent of consultants' services, fellowsbips, training and translation; 100 percent of
forei  expndie for computers, equipment and materials, 100 percent of local expenditus (ex-
factory) and 75 pcet of local expditures for other item prred locally. The loan proceeds would
also reace the Project Preparation Advance made by the Bank under PPF 211-UA. Withdrwal
applications would be flly documented, except for expnditm against contracts valued at less than
US$50,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of certified statement of expedt     detailing
the individual transactions. The documentation to support these xpenditures would be retained by the
Deparnt of Relation with International FinancW Instituions for at least one year after receipt by the
World ank of the audt report for the yew in which the la$ dibusem was made. Ths
doumentation would be made avaiable for review by the auditors (sse section below on 'Repoting and
Auditing*) and the Word Bank upon request. The estmated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan
is provided in Schedule B. The project Is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996, and the Closing
Date would be Deember 31, 1996.
65.   Spedal Account. To facilitate project implemeion, the Borrower would establish a special
account in US dollars in a commercia bank on tms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank to
cover the Wodd Bans share of eligible expenditures. he authrized allocation of this account would
be US$2,000,000 equivalent, representg about two mouths of average expeitures under the loan. At
the request of the Borrower and, based on project needs, the World Bank would make an in    deposit
or deposits ina the specia account, up to the amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for
replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly, or when one third of the amount
deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documention reqiremen for repleme
allocations would follow the same procedure as descibed in the above section on Disbursements. In
addion, monthly bank statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower
would    mpany all replenishment requests.
66.   Re 4t  and Auditing. During no s, asances wre obned that the special account,
all project accounts, and statement of expenditure would be audied at the end of each fiscal yea by
independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. Such audits, the cost of which would be financed
under the proposed loan, would be carried out in accordance with interional stndards undertken by
auditors qualified for this task. Audit reports for the preceding calendar year would be made available
to the World Bank no later than by the end of June of each year.
67.   To enable the project implemenato- unit tx,  nitor pwgress of project implementation, it was
agreed during negti   that the unit w-  faunish the World Bank with a series of reports on a
regular basis. These reports will include: (a) quarterly progress reports on implementation in a fonmat
and degree of detail acceptable to the World Bank; (b) audited financ  statements within six montis after
the close of each Ukrainian fiscal year; and (c) records, financial statements, other progress reports or
other types of infomtion that the World Bank may request from time to time. Based on information
provided by the various beneficiary agencies, the project implementation unit will prepare its contribton
to the Project Compledon Report within six months of the Closing Date, covering all related aivities
during project implementation.
68.   Prouement.  Procurement would be the responsibility of the executing agency for each
component, with technical assistance provided by the project implementation nit and project-financed
consultants as required. The project elements and their estimated costs, and the procrement



37 -
aragments fbr the componens to be financed by the World Back are summarized in Schedule B. A
County Procurement Assessment has not yet been completd. Procurement proposed under the project
would follow the World Bank's Procurement Gudelines.
69.   Gos and Eq_pea. All equipment and materials to be fianced from the World Bank loan
would be procaed in ardance wV" the Word Bank's Gkddebes for Procwwwnt (May 19).
Goods, equipment and materials to be finaced by the Wodd Bank wil onoist of computer sm  and
periphals, software sysm, telecommunications, office equipmnt ad proucton costs of public
nfomtion mater.  Computer and other equipmen of estmed value of US$9.9 miron fo
_cmuerzain   of treasury offices and the payment system (see Schedule B) would be procured th
nternatoal Competitive Bidding (ICB) using the World Bank's Standad Bidding Docume  for Goods,
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necesay for the purposes of the
projt  It iS not envisioned that local suppliers wMil pacipat in ICB conts for goods. Mm
remaining equipment, grouped in lots etimated to cost more than US$50,000 but less than US$300,000
would be procued through international shopping, requiring price quotations from a minimum of th
vendors from ftree diffent counties. Total ternional shoppng would not exceed the ceiling of
US$3.7 million equivalent, about 14 percent of the total loan amount. Contcs estmated to cost less
tham US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000, may be procured in accwrdan  with local
shopping on the basis of comparison of price quotatio  from at least three eligible local suppliers.
Contcs for goods which are of proprietary natue or which require            w  wP sxig
equipment may be awarded under direct contracdng procedures up to a total aggr e mount of
$100,000. All conacts awarded though ICB, as well as the firs two coats under intationa
shopping and local shopping, will be subject to prior World Bank review. All other contracts wI be
subject to selectiv ex -post review by the World Bank.
70.   Cnsu serces: The specialists for technical assistae, trinig and studies to be financed
from the proceeds of the loan would be recruited by the govement fom among individual consultts
or consutng fims  in accordance wihi the Wodd Bank's GaWeies for the Use of Conaltwts. The
Bank's standard form of contract for consultants servc  will be used. Advisors for the treuy
suboomponent will be selected from the D" panel of fiA  eets. Use of local consultant will be
encouraged whenever the requisite skils are available locally. The term  of refeence for all conant
assignmens and all contracts for consultant services would be subject to the World Bank's prior reiew
and approval. The results of consulting assignment, particularly plans of action for subseque  stages
of project impl, would be submitted to the Bank fer review.
71.   Proc  ment AdnLuraion: Since this is the first World Bank project in the country, the staff
of the project implementation unit will be given training in procurement through courses conducted by
the Intemational Labor Orgnization and through other traiing. Consultants would be retned by the
borrower to provide assistance in preparing bid request and evaluating bids. The project implemetio
unit would be staffed with a management team competent to assist with routine prouement
administration activities. For bid preparation and evaluation, tLe government plans to retain the services
of a procurement speciaist or consulting firm, as required. The Wodd Bank Residem Mission and
visiting missions from headquas would be caled upon to assist in reviewing procu-ement
documentation as part of regular supervision activities. The bog,wer will monitor procurement
administation closely; promptly report contract award information to the Bank; and submit
comprehensive quarterly reports to the Bank indicafting, inter alia, revised timing of procurement acdons,
including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.



-38-
-rr                    or                                                        w -t7 MR4Cr a sst -OCO3 -
OMFOAWA                     coNimT   csr   P4ocuPawrjEMOD                             pfrpw.s  hamme   s4pft
TI!P5r                                                OfST  q(Wdb   Of          of
________                                        _    ._______    Dacasw.w                      lorion   COM&-.
Chic,sa  Oblas              CoM*l         2.00000  Sbort Ug of  wt  3 &= wih            7/93          9/93        1 1/9
Tr1n                     abledoo based an techn    mei
_OVaUIU ad equpme    0Go                 25000         _dmu Sbhopp   (S)             9/93          IW93       11193
50,000   Loc al Sopin (LW)
P_ PdvuIlc                  Cvaeu           500000   Shani IR  o at baw 3 fm w          9/1           11/93       12M
TOW"in                   nseros basd aseQnla mob"  am
_.. ._-    a_ . -. a_
Co_ma          700,000   Shois No  at kam 3         wih    793           993         11/93
Training                 aelorcabasd as echnIal mri
rnts a  equipment   coods                450,000   1                                  1/94          194        4/94
50,000  1I
Public Ioutlo Campa         Combanad/       500.000   Sha    d of at a   3 &tm With     12/93         1194        3/94
T.aiin Tdos baued an t_hia  _me
Payments3Syarem             Ccasuha         700,000  So He of at ka  firm wI 7/                       93          1/93
Trabiig             _     selo bao e an tehn     l me
! amputo aNW equime       Goods         3,200,000  lKa                               395           495         6s95
650,000   a
____________                      ~~~~~~~~~50,000  LS_                           _ _
Aountg C__a _                               30000    WM a cauAtn coutt(s)                             -           gm9/
Tfsv
..,-                                                               .a_
sa-  -                                                                                               - -
uoaal Supr to slok    Cu*l=s    2,100,000   Sepa    coact S  eah of two                 793           Om93 
Traini                   baks. Shortliofas heI )3
firm  wit h adctos basd an
_ _ _ _ _                                tecnica mec
Trassry SyMemla
4 =Wy/&Wcounft            cornba         400000   Seon fom  .  fed  -en                            -           1d3
sym .advac               Coants          600,000   Sho ft ofatbast3firm. wit         9/            109         12M93
"leco band on tdlm erit
-ftrann advise            CUIM"          40O,o    SlectIon frm 5f  fisc -p-nd                                 1/94
"                 .   _T           __in                               _______
a a a
-copue  a  equmnt   Goods               7,100.000  ICa                                1W95         3/95        5/95
9so5000   Ia                                1/94         3/94        S/94
50,000   LS
Tax MmlnOMWO                Goods          1,000,000  ICR                               5/94          6/94        894
450.000  IS                                9/             10/9)      12M93
50,000   LS
Mlo y of tatas                               400,000   _d    s O tt conrc             9___            10/9        12_ 9_
T rainin                   _  _  _  _ _ _  _  _  _  _
computr and equipen    Goos              600,000  WC                                 6/94           /4         109
3S0,000  IS                                 1/94           94        3/94
. .                    .     ~~~~~~~~~~~so,aoo   Ls_ 



-39 -
miby o       oo_y            Co_ Sbanhud   1.30000    SIbw  lat of a    3ea   wilh       99             10/93       12193
T,alOlq                  aedseada basnd an teobulal oakd
0yutS sd aquip_m"         Goods           250,000  IS                                  9     _       1/          1293
50,000   LS     .  .            .  .
PM                           Co_aa_          300,000 .Idividual&eWoa=ma ..coatracta      7/             9           1/93
-TNg
.onayuou  kA*qvPAM    Goo0e                50.000   U
Odk. r  C_O_NU                             1,7,000   to be d_d                           - 
s d quk         Goods           350,007   a                                                  
50,0OU L S 
100,000 ,IO C         _oat



INS?rrlON BULDING PlROJEC
AZY PROJECT ACT! VIfS
Aif du Gve'uxWaa    O*cjieab   PhwJec C4rpemn  AdbWn          ReVspesb.AgcPM                 Epectud  esul I Iwp            Trlukg
L ENTERPRE REWORM COMPONET
A. AssIstae to Cte  nd Obls
Aclat privatization of         Patation coordintor and        Stat Propet Fund (PF) and 18rganizati  an                         moths beginning June
stat  NWd  umniciPM" property  cithy ubprjelt                                               implementation of aucios for    1993
and promote the rapid          implementation tams                                            mall ctepris; d opmt
expansion of prvte stodor                                                                    of progtam for priatzmlon of
acdvhy                            iment for loal              Minit of Ecoomics (MOE)    modium and lrge b     ew t         July-December 1992
prvtiation office              and SPP
Private sector deveopment      SPFW    local adminstions      Siplficatio  of rguao          18 mots begning July
specialists                                                  fiamework for prt               1993
buse  and Impoved acces
to commercial realstae by
pr-A  finns
Tning and public               SPP ud lWal   ini       ws    Imved understadin of            Training to begi October
ifomaton for city officias,                                   nd pubBc support for           1993
enteprs  maeow, and                                           priva   o pres
p*ivtiation staff
D. Plbt Prhatkatlos
Test methodologies for         Team of leal, financal, and    SFF                            Privatization of approximatly  Beginning October 1993
privatization of medium and    engineering consult  for                                      5 enteprise and concet
bargoens                       pit priv     on of                                             xperience for ihclusion in
-des                                                          depgn of voucher progrm
-40-



Main Governme Objeedve          o    Comp_e  A Wa            Resposibl Amsy                Expected R_   R / I Vg Th
Increase effeci&vC  c _ilo    Experts assac  in              Atn opoly Committ             Break up of selected           1993-94
in to entrpise Sceor          en     dvesture and ani-    (AMC)                            monopoly eneprise
monoolylgslation and
regulation                                                   Finaliatbion of lea texls,    December 1993
work progam, operaing
Equipment for AMC                                            guidelies, and ornizationl
headquadters ad selcWd                                       stucture of AMC
regiosa offices
D. Pui IAmniatian Campafg
amp       public undeandig    PubBc Rlations Ext             SPF                           Execuon of TV, radio,          1993-94
of and support for                                                                         nwspap and public meeog
pt :atiAn                     Prepartion of public           SPW                           Information campaig
hikbnr  n materle
B. FINANCIAL SECTOR CO ONENT
A. Pay_mu  Syste
Develop a saf reliable, sd    Expet asioan  for              Natnl Bank of Ukrai           Impletat  of imedite           S       r 1993- ch 1994
cost defive paym    Sym        mmed    lpo"ms to              mBU)                         imprvmet to paymens
that mes thenedsof            existng paymns sytm                                          system
b_us     , housebls, and
bans to tansfer f     and     Expert assi_ ce for desig      NBU                           Design and ina                  994
effect paymet                 and imlmeAtion of                                            impeme    of new
medium term i      _ovements to                              payme  system adapted to
payimWa system                                               volue and type of
trnation in mar
On-dbojob training for        NU                             ecoonomy
commela  ban  nd NBU
staff
-41 -



Main  GA    0*00             qft~   CO.POOei AdWMU      ePAnaN. Agnasy             Rxua un I bwee             Thni
q_Upmu and ow.. for        MU NW NBU
ws"ob       hwv"ul
Adepain   of Sh APS and a  *Sedmnr (RAPS               NBhU                       * Ivmprvee in &$nanu        1994
low beat 'Choat of Aseoun'   *Wo*Mn Group                                         zepoAi 1wbekagn
eetb&mAR* MA bb                                        ad ew edapeau andpo -
* Couulis Sn vle                                      foblpf et-n
* Trigofe m        Goupof                              * NM loss IaulSsIn eNd
me     °°r   °AI and beak                            P-          synem
-                                                      * Comptbit wal OAP
* Now Cheat of Aoio_t      1995
C. Inwalhael Slrng fthn .1 Bonks
* sainp  eak dlee          D_gody                      NBU                        0 Reel_ids assoeset df(     1993
stdavand,    ,d momntn     hqbnphuitIPb..                                         beats benc! ead             199
* Com     l BaDk                                                                   _ionRIm a', I
* modemlutlss prgm ad
bus42
-42-4



MaU Govnmnl Objective         Projec Componnt Ahtvie        Responb  Agey                 Expeced RP_   I kact           ring
111. PUBLC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
A. Treasy Systm
Impov  _mamnt of              Treuy/Acwcunng aor            MOP                           Creaton of funfedged          1993
bude executo                                                                              tasury d      _tment in MOP
Systes advisons for design of   MOP
computerized treasury system                                Desig of com eid              1993
tauy system
Equimnt and soware for        FMU Nd MOP
desig, piot tes, an                                         Pilot appitio of new          1994
subseuentimplementti  of                                   trsury system in MOP, one
treu"y ystem                                                rcgio  trasu   un, aud onm
or two spnd    minst
1995-96
Implementaon of new
treasury systlem in major
-pm tresuy units and
-oin mWiniries
-43-



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24253
20                                 25S                                 3100                                  5                                 400
BEIARUS
76k.W~d,,k-  C .d
,,  t v      . S      tSO                RUSSIAN  FEDERATON
POBAND                          .Ja
Ko.l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
-ROK                      X  '  Rese a
, ,   [:        C   :     . BLA Cl    £A            : -            -      1    x  :   A. - 0        X
04..~~* ?                                                    .                             :-i                         -     
.   BULGAR  -  ^^: 0 - t -. . t - o . :s 1Z. - T
SLOVAI(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II1dI



