                                                                                                                                       92195
World Bank Projects Related to Public Sector Reform                                                                                 April 20, 2004
The World Bank supports institutional reforms in Ukraine and provides ponderable assistance for their implementation. During 12 years of
cooperation, a number of adjustment projects were implemented and are currently being unfolded, aimed at spreading present-day
experience in organizing the management and performance of the economy, the speeded-up development of a business initiative and
activity, and harmonious formation of civil society. Starting from 1993, the World Bank provided 6 loans totaling $US 1083.4 million for the
development of Ukraine’s main state institutions. The seventh project is currently at the stage of implementation.

In 1993-1999, the Institutional Loan Project was implemented (the total cost of the project is $US 44 million, the World Bank loan is 27
million).

In 1994-1996, the Rehabilitation Loan Project was implemented ($US 500 million).

Within the framework of these projects, consultancy and advisory services were, in particular, rendered, equipment was purchased for the
Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other government institutions, the National Bank of Ukraine, and the State Property Fund; foreign
currency was also provided for purchasing critical-import goods; the budget received support for strengthening the system of social
protection of the poorest strata of the population.

The experience gained over the past few years testifies to the Ukrainian Government’s capacity not only to form, but also to implement
economic development programs. Cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the World Bank gained a new impetus in 2001,
when the Programmatic Adjustment Loan was initiated. This loan is aimed at resolving some problem issues of Ukrainian reforms and,
specifically in the area of fiscal and financial discipline, regulatory policy, forming and protecting of ownership rights, and achieving of
social stability. The specified priorities also include full-fledged legal support for the institutional transformations that are taking place in the
state and private sectors, and improvement of the economy management to meet the present-day requirements.

For project implementation, a series of Programmatic Adjustment Loans are to be provided, aimed at achieving the efficiency of the
Government performance.

The Government program of actions is focused on reform of the budgetary sphere and one of its components – the state treasury. The
reform envisages improvement of the budget funds management and supervision of their intended use, as well as elaboration of relevant
legislative base. To achieve this goal, the Treasury System Project (the total cost of $US 26.5 million, the World Bank loan is $US 16.4
million) was elaborated, which is currently at the stage of implementation.

The project supports the Ukrainian Government’s efforts to build up the functional and computerized treasury system which is expected to
increase the efficiency of the budget execution and ensure its implementation in full scope and more controllable cash flow. Systems of
budget classification, transfer of wages and salaries to deposit accounts, centralized government payments, and a number of other
measures are being introduced.

The project places particular emphasis on providing technical assistance and professional training of specialists for the State Treasury in
accordance with the present-day standards.

Cooperation between the Government of Ukraine and the World Bank is concerned with yet another vital sphere of the Ukrainian economy
– the taxation system which is currently in force. In 2003, the State Tax Administration of Ukraine approved a strategic plan for the sector
development for 10 years. The strategy of reforming provides for overcoming drawbacks of the existing tax system, such as non-
transparency and inefficiency, orientation to the low level of executive discipline, and creating of unequal taxation conditions for various
subjects of economic activities, disregard for the tax legislation, and corruption among some of the tax bodies’ staff. The reformed system
should impartially administer taxes, encourage their voluntary payment, and stimulate the development of private entrepreneurship by
relieving the tax burden and expanding the tax base. Efficient reforming measures are designed to facilitate legalization of the Ukrainian
shadow economy.

The Ukrainian program of reforming the tax system was supported by the World Bank which approved the decision to allocate $US 40
million for implementing the State Tax Administration Modernization Project for Ukraine. This loan is the first one of the two planned loans.
The total cost of the project is $US 202 million, of which amount $US 114 million will be provided by the World Bank as a loan.

The project supports the State Tax Administration’s efforts to develop and introduce a single system of state registration of tax payers at
Ukraine’s tax bodies, and a system of supervising the calculation and receipt of payments, as well as reorganization of the tax service by
the functional principle. A program will be implemented for complete computerization and automation of the processes for administering
taxes and dues, and a system of intradepartmental reporting and control will be improved.

Accuracy of economic solutions and forecasts is determined to a great extent by the reliability of statistical data. Therefore, during
transition of the Ukrainian economy to the market foundations, there arose a need to improve the statistical system. At the beginning of
2004, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors also approved the Project of the Development of the State Statistics System for
Monitoring Social and Economic Reforms in Ukraine ($US 32 million).
The project is aimed at introducing modern methodologies and approaches in collecting, processing and disseminating statistical data,
raising the level and quality of Ukrainian statistics to meet international standards, and ensuring users’ prompt and wide access to official
statistical information. The assistance provided under the project will include supply of present-day information and communication
equipment for collecting, processing and spreading of data at the State Statistics Committee, the National Bank of Ukraine, Ministry of
Finance, and Ministry of Economy and on Issues of European Integration of Ukraine.

Translated by V. Ivchenko

 
