Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3898 
Project Name 
Basic Education Quality Improvement Project 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General education sector (50%);Pre-primary education 
(25%);Secondary education (25%) 
Project ID 
P106686 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Ministerio de Educación (MEDUCA) 
Despacho del Ministro c/o Dirección General de Educación 
Villa Cárdenas, Ancón. 
Apartado Postal 0816-04049 
Panamá, República de Panamá. 
 Tel. (507) 511-4400 / 515-7300 
E-mail: 
meduca@meduca.gob.pa
 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 14, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 27, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
August 5, 2008 
 
I. Country and Sector Issues  
Strong economic growth is
 expected to continue. 
Panama’s economy grew at a robust pace of 5 
percent per year from 1997 through 2006 and an ev
en faster 7.5 percent per year from 2004 
through 2006, a mild recession in 2004 notwithstanding (World Bank, 2007a)
1
.  Current 
estimates suggest growth will continue at almo
st 9 percent or more in coming years as a 
Government-led project to expand the Panama
 Canal gives an added boost to the economy 
(World Bank, 2007b). Real per capita GDP rose
 2.7 percent per year since 2000, placing Panama 
among the world’s upper-middle-income nations wi
th a per capita income of 7,900 (PPP 2006). 
Although unemployment is relatively low at 4 
percent of the labor force (World Bank, 2006), 
Panama’s strong growth is heavily concentrated 
in the export and service sectors, which have 
generated relatively few jobs in the formal economy (Galiani, 2007).  
 
Growth has helped Panama improve social indi
cators, but poverty and inequality remain a 
challenge. 
Increased social spending has helped improv
e social indicators such as infant and 
child survival and education enrollment rates at 
all levels, however, in 2003, over a third of 
                                                
 
1
 For a complete list of bibliographical references see final section in Annex 12. 
Page  2
Panamanians still lived in poverty and more than 
one-sixth lived in extreme poverty. Income 
inequality –with a Gini Index of 0.56 as of 2003- 
is one of the highest in the world and higher 
than the average for countries with similar per ca
pita income levels. Poverty rates are highest 
among people with the lowest levels of ed
ucational attainment, hence unequal education 
opportunities translate into more social and
 economic disparities (World Bank, 2006).  
Rural and indigenous communities are the most 
affected by resilient poverty and growing 
inequality. 
Poverty affects close to 60 percent of the po
pulation in rural areas and virtually all 
people living in indigenous areas, where th
e poverty rate reaches 98 percent (World Bank, 
2006). Nearly 10 percent of Panama’s 3.5 million pe
ople belong to indigenous groups, the three 
largest of which have obtained semi-autonomous 
comarcas.
2
 
All three
 
are far from cities and 
roads, adding lack of infrastructure to the c
hallenges of delivering services. The migration of 
indigenous people to cities in search for bette
r economic opportunities has led to rising urban 
poverty rates. The percentage of poor people li
ving in cities doubled to 16 percent between 1997 
and 2003 (World Bank, 2006). 
 
Furthermore, Panama’s lack of progress in
 reducing poverty and inequality cannot be 
attributed to low levels of social spending. 
The country spends more than 18 percent of its 
GDP in the social sectors, which is substantially
 higher than the averag
e in Latin America (14 
percent) and matches Costa Rica (18 percent), the 
country with the highest investment in social 
programs in the region. Therefore, improving the 
targeting of social programs and efficiency of 
spending must take priority to redress the entr
enched inequalities in social sector outcomes. 
 
Key issues in the Education Sector   
The education sector has reached important milestones. 
More than 18 percent of government 
social spending was dedicated to education in 
2005, up from less than 15 percent in 2000. This 
increase in spending supported Panama’s efforts 
to broaden access to education in all areas of 
the country. From 2000 to 2005, preschool enrollment for children aged 4 and 5 increased from 
36 to 62 percent while at primary level enrollmen
t reached universality. Between 1996 and 2005, 
coverage at secondary level rose by 18 perc
ent and most recently, the professional and 
vocational training system entered a phase 
of rapid modernization and it now offers an 
increasing number of courses covering the imme
diate demand for skills in key sectors of the 
economy. In addition, the proportion of the popu
lation with completed tertiary education -9.9 
percent in 2000- is higher than the average am
ong Latin American countries -4.9 percent- and 
OECD member countries -9.5 percent. With a un
iversity gross enrollment rate of 31 percent, 
Panama is the country with the region’s second
 largest proportion of students enrolled in 
tertiary education in the region, second only to Argentina. Furthermore, Panama has met the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDG) targets of ge
nder parity at all education levels (World 
Bank, 2007c).  
 
                                                
 
2
 The 
Ngöbe Buglé 
lies
 
near the border with Costa Rica, the 
Emberá 
near the border with Colombia and the 
Kuna Yala 
in the San Blas archipelago. 
Page  3
However, national averages mask deep social, 
regional and ethnic disparities in education 
outcomes. To this point, the 2007 joint report from the 
Programa de Promoción de la Reforma 
Educativa
 (PREAL) and the 
Consjeo del Sector Privado para la Asistencia Educacional 
(CoSPAE), as 
well as the 
Primer
 
Informe al Señor Presidente de la Republica
 issued by the Consejo Nacional la 
Educación (CONACED) in 2006 and the 
Plan de Concertación Nacional para el Desarrollo
 identified 
key challenges for the sector. Key among these 
are the need for programs to improve quality, 
equity, internal efficiency and governance in 
education and the development of appropriate 
systems to measure outcomes and longer 
term impacts. These are discussed next. 
 
One of the main problems in the sector conc
erns the low quality of education produced by 
the system
. 
The
 
results from three national assessment te
sts indicate that most students have 
significant problems in applying essential skills 
and competencies in basic academic subjects.
 
In 
2000, at least 40 percent of the students showed le
arning deficiencies in all grades and subjects 
tested, particularly in Mathematics and Social 
Sciences (PRODE / ME-BID, 2000). In 2001, results 
from the 
Comprender
 exam confirmed these deficiencies 
when participating students at all 
grades were able to respond less than 50 percen
t correct answers in each
 subject. Moreover, the 
2005 SINECA
3
 results provided a gloomier pict
ure: more than 50 percent of 3
rd
 and 6
th
 graders 
scored “deficient” in all subjects; among 9
th
 and 12
th
 graders, this proportion rose to 70 percent 
in Spanish and 85 percent in Mathematics. What is more, in 2006, more than half of the students 
attempting to enter the University of Panam
a failed the university entry exam (PREAL-
CoSPAE, 2007).  
In addition, inequities are deeply ingrained in the system.
 Measures of enrollment, retention, 
completion and learning achievement show signif
icant disparities between education levels in 
urban, rural and indigenous localities. In 2005,
 net enrollment rates at pre-school, lower and 
upper secondary levels reached 55.3 percent (ages 4 and 5), 64.5 percent (ages 12 to 14), and 44 
percent (ages 15-17), respectively, compared to 
universality at primary education. National net 
enrollment rates vary widely across regions: for 
example, secondary net enrollment rates in the 
relatively urbanized province of 
Colón
 reach 71 percent compared to 25 percent in the 
Ngäbe 
Buglé 
and 
Kuna Yala comarcas 
and only 3 percent in the 
Emberá comarcas
.
 
 In terms of completion 
rates, only 35 percent of the students livin
g in rural localities and 10 percent living in 
indigenous communities complete secondary ed
ucation compared to 60 percent among those 
living in urban areas.
  
Also, indigenous sixth graders sc
ored well below the 2005 SIENCA 
national averages, attaining 23.2 in Spanish and 
35.9 in Mathematics, compared to 44.8 and 46.8 
for rural, and 50.9 and 48.6 for urban students, respectively (MEDUCA, 2006). Learning 
achievement results were similar among students in grades 3, 9 and 12.  
Also, internal efficiency is low ov
erall and it perpetuates inequalities. 
High overage and low 
completion rates constitute a sign of
 persistent internal inefficiency.
 
According to MEDUCA, 
the rate of overage students is 32.2 percent in
 primary and almost 50 percent in secondary 
                                                
 
3
 The Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de
 la Calidad de los Aprendizajes (SINECA) administered its first national 
achievement test in November 2005. Students in grades 3,
 6 and 9 were tested in Sp
anish, Mathematics, Social 
Sciences and Natural sciences, thos
e in grade 12 were tested in Span
ish, English and Mathematics only. 
Page  4
education (MEDUCA, 2005). As for drop-out and 
completion rates, cohort analyses using 2005 
data on primary and secondary levels showed t
hat for every 1,000 students who began primary 
school, only 817 completed the full six-year cycl
e and fewer than 600 did so without repeating a 
grade. Similarly, at the secondary level, for ev
ery 1,000 students entering grade 7, fewer than 
half went on to complete grade 12 and only 357 
did so without repeating a grade. Problems of 
internal efficiency as the ones mentioned above 
increase operational costs and reduce spending 
efficiency. The 2007 PREAL-CoSPAE 
report estimated that the cost of grade repetition at all pre-
university levels averaged USD 17 m
illion per year between 2000 and 2004.  
The poor and indigenous are the most affected by problems of internal efficiency
. Repetition 
rates in the indigenous 
comarcas
 are significantly higher -10.5 percent in 
Kuna Yala
, 17.5 in 
Comarca Emberá
 and 13.5 in 
Comarca
 
Ngäbe-Bugle
-, than the national average of 5 percent. Drop-
out rates in primary education are close to 10 pe
rcent in all three communities, and as much as 
32.2 in secondary in 
Kuna Yala
, compared to national averages 
of 3.2 percent at the primary 
level and 11.4 percent at the secondary level. 
In addition, curricular programs in rural and 
indigenous communities do not match their econom
ic and social contexts, and teachers are not 
equipped with the appropriate skills to provide 
a culturally-relevant le
arning experience in 
their classrooms. 
Sector governance, administration and manage
ment functions are weak, thus hindering 
efforts to improve equity, quality and technical efficiency.
 Although MEDUCA has increased 
its capacity to deliver services in the last year
s, the Ministry continue
s to perform poorly in 
delivering targeted results. This cannot be blamed
 on insufficient resources as Panama invests 
the equivalent of 5.8 percent of its GDP in 
education, compared to an average 4.1 percent 
among middle-income countries in the region. 
Yet, pre-school and secondary net enrollment 
rates in Panama fall behind net rates in Latin 
American countries with similar income (World 
Bank, 2006b). Among the several governance issues identified in the 2006 CONACE report, 
three of them appear to have the greatest
 effect on institutional performance: 
 x
 
Inefficient budget allocation at the central level.
 Budget allocations skew towards non-
investment expenses as two-thirds of the Mini
stry’s budget is devoted to salary payments, 
the only title in the budget that increases an
nually due to the addition of new teachers, 
annual teacher and administrators bonuses,
 and seniority promotions. Also, budget 
allocation mechanisms tend to favor urban instead of the rural and indigenous areas that, I 
spite of serving 50 percent of the student popula
tion, receive only 35 percent of total school 
subsidies.  
 x
 
Obsolete information processes have prod
uced untimely administrative records.
 It takes 
13 to 15 months for the National Directorate 
for Education Planning to
 produce their annual 
education statistics report. By the time this 
is released, implementing units are already 
supervising or evaluating interventions based on
 their own estimates or on data from other 
ministries, which is often also incomplete and outdated.  
 x
 
Lack of a culture of strategic planni
ng at the national and regional levels
.  This, in 
addition to excessive red tape and centralized
 decision-making have resulted in a massive, 
Page  5
unarticulated flow of information supported 
by a wide variety of legal instruments, 
regulations, law decrees and internal operat
ion memorandums that often contradict each 
other. As a result, directorates working in 
isolation often duplicat
e activities leaving 
overlapped responsibilities unaccountable.  
 
II. Higher-Level  Objectives 
The Project’s higher level objective aims at incr
easing Panama’s human capital base by further 
improving the equity and quality of education at
 pre-school and basic education levels as well 
as its cultural relevance to rural and indigeno
us population is consistent with the GoP’s 
development pillars stated in their “Strat
egic Vision of Economic and Employment 
Development Towards 2009”.   
From these pillars, the Project addresses P
illar III (human development investment) through 
interventions targeting the quality of educat
ion and the equity in access to educational 
opportunities to disadvantaged populations, pa
rticularly in remote and indigenous areas. 
Attention to Pillar V (strengthened institutional and
 technical capacity) is reflected by activities 
aiming to improve MEDUCA’s capacity and pe
rformance, through the development of policy-
relevant information systems. The overall scop
e of the program addresses Pillar I (poverty 
reduction and improved income distribution) th
rough investments that promote human capital 
development and a more equitable distribution 
of quality education as these measures have 
been widely documented in literature to contri
bute to the reduction of long-term poverty and 
inequality (Vegas & Petrow, 2007; Hanushek & Wö
\03†
mann, 2007; Thomas et al, 2000; Barro, 
1995; Benhabib & Spiegel, 1994).  
 
III. Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) with Panama approved in 2007 emphasizes human 
capital accumulation (Pillar IV) and equity of ed
ucational opportunities as key interventions to 
reduce poverty and inequality (Pillar I).  
In addition, the GoP and the Bank have develo
ped a strong base of analytical studies on 
Panama’s economic growth prospects and soci
al development, including the 2006 Poverty 
Assessment, the 2005 Public Expenditure 
Review and the 2007 Country Economic 
Memorandum. These studies identify the challe
nges and opportunities facing education, 
training and innovation systems in the countr
y and inform policy decision-making to guide 
future sector investments, including the proposed
 project, in line with the Government’s policy 
agenda.  
At the sector level, the Bank has a 10-year tech
nical dialogue and invest
ment partnership with 
MEDUCA, supporting operations in early-childh
ood and basic education (World Bank, 1996 
and 2003) with satisfactory outcomes.  Curre
ntly, the Bank is financing a Second Basic 
Education Project with a Loan of 35 million (L
n. 70320) approved in 2000 and an Additional 
Page  6
Finance Loan of USD 5 million (Ln. 74830) approved
 in August 2007. The ongoing project is a 
continuation of the 1996-2002 First Basic Ed
ucation Project completed in 2002 and rated 
successfully in the achievement of all of its development objectives
4
.  
Also, with the launch of the Government’s program 
Red de Oportunidades 
(supported by the 
World Bank and Inter American Development B
ank), the Second Basic Education Project 
became central to its success since 
Red de
 
Oportunidades
 seeks to promote enrollment and 
consistent attendance in early education and pr
imary school among children living in extreme 
poverty using conditional cash transfers. Thus, while 
Red de
 
Oportunidades
 stimulates the 
demand side the ongoing (and proposed) operat
ion focuses on meeting supply side challenges 
to meet the increase demand for places and
 improve the quality of service provision. 
 
 
IV.
 
Project Description 
 
The lending instrument proposed is a Specific
 Investment Loan (SIL) for an estimated amount 
of USD 37 million to be disbursed over a period of
 five years. The SIL option is an appropriate 
lending instrument to support sector-specific oper
ations in the current transition period in the 
Bank-GoP collaboration, as reflected in th
e Panama Country Partnership Strategy.  
 
V.
 
Project Development Objective and Key Indicators 
 
The Project Development Objective (PDO) seeks to support the Government of Panama to 
improve: (i) the quality of non-formal early-
childhood education, basic (grades 1-9) and 
secondary (10-12) education programs; (ii) the co
verage and internal efficiency of initial and 
basic education; and (iii) the strategic planning and
 institutional performance of the Ministry of 
Education at the central, regional
 and local levels. Improving equity is considered a transversal 
principle and therefore it is embedded in each component of the Project. 
Although the focus of the Project centers on 
strengthening programs in pre-school and basic 
(grades 1-9) education levels, selected activiti
es at secondary education (grades 10-12) were 
incorporated into the Project’s design in order 
to promote a better integration between basic and 
secondary education and to contribute to the reduce the technology gap in the region by 
fostering IT literacy skills among young st
udents and secondary school graduates.
 
Progress towards PDO accomplishment will be
 measured against the following Project 
Outcome Indicators (POIs) improvements on: (i) 
the difference in learning outcomes between a 
sample of schools participating in the Nati
onal Plan for Learning
 Quality Improvement 
compared to the national averages of SINECA
 exams for grades 3, 6, and 9 in Spanish, 
                                                
 
4
 All ratings were satisfactory, including performance from the Borrower and the World Bank. Project is 
scheduled for closure on December 31
st
, 2008. 
Page  7
Mathematics, Natural and Social Sciences; (ii) the 
difference in the survival rate of students at 
the 5th grade between interventi
on schools and the national aver
age; (iii) net enrollment rates 
for children in early education programs (age 4 
and 5) and basic education (grades 1-9); (iv) 
repetition rate in basic educatio
n levels (grades 1-6); (v) graduation rates from grade 9; and (vi) 
the rate of school-incorporation into 
MEDUCA’s national network of schools (
Red Nacional 
MEDUCA).
 5
 
Since equity is the transvers
al principle, POIs will refl
ect gender, ethnicity, region, 
pedagogical model of instruction and school-type 
differences, in addition to income quintile 
differences when applicable. 
 
Component 1: Improved Education Quality (Total estimated cost: USD 16.74 million. Bank 
financing: USD 14.56 million, GoP financing: USD 2.18 million). 
 This component aims to 
continue improving education quality in basic education (grades 1-9) and secondary (10-12) 
programs through a series of interventions addr
essing teachers, students, curricular content, 
pedagogical methods of instruction and institutional assessment systems.  
Component 2: Increase enrollment levels and successful completion in early-childhood and 
basic educational programs. (Total estimated cost: USD 18.83 million. Bank financing: USD 
16.39 million, GoP financing: USD 2.44 million). 
This component will seek to expand non-
formal early-childhood and prim
ary education programs, as well as to increase the internal 
efficiency of the system from pre-school 
to basic education (grades 1-9) programs.  
Component 3: Strengthen the institutional capa
city and performance of the Ministry of 
Education. (Total estimated cost: USD 6.43 million. Bank financing: USD 6.05 million, GoP 
financing: USD 0.38 million). 
This component will aim to suppo
rt strategic investments to 
MEDUCA’s institutional and technical capacity
 to improve the administrative, management, 
monitoring and evaluation perfor
mance of the educational system. 
 
VI.
 
Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 5.0 
International Bank for Recons
truction and Development 
37.0 
 Total 
42.0 
 
VII.
 
Implementation 
 
MEDUCA will take overall responsibility fo
r managing the Project within its regular 
institutional structure, which will facilitat
e compliance with technical, financial, and 
administrative procedures supporting project 
progress towards PDO accomplishment. Overall 
                                                
 
5
 The 
Red Nacional
 MEDUCA consists of a network of schools conne
cted through the internet to the central and 
regional offices, thus provid
ing real-time administrative, academic and financial information straight from the source 
–i.e. the school. Service delivery to connected schools -11 pe
rcent- has improved significantly as regional supervisors 
and national directors are able to receive timely repo
rts and data on school and program operation.     
Page  8
responsibility for the successful completion of th
e Project will fall under the authority of the 
Director General for Education (
Director General de Educación)
, responsible also for the oversight 
of each of the three components. National Dire
ctorates will be responsible for implementing 
programs and activities outlined in their co
rresponding sub-component and will be held 
accountable for the periodical oversight and 
successful completion of their respective 
interventions. MEDUCA’s Regional Coordinatin
g Units will be responsible for coordinating 
activities at the regional and local levels, mainly
, those related to expansion of existing and the 
implementation of new programs. Day-to-day 
operations will be monitored by an Operation 
Task Team embedded in MEDUCA’s institutional
 structure. M&E mechanisms, outlined in the 
Project Operation Manual, will 
provide the basis to ensure ho
rizontal collaboration between 
these units. 
VIII.
 
Critical risks and possible controversial aspects 
 
Several potential risks have been identified, incl
uding those at the country and sector-level, and 
those related directly to the Project. (the Proj
ect Appraisal Document address presents the main 
risks the Project faces and the proposed
 mitigation measures are described) 
 
IX.
 
Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of project investments is pr
imarily dependent on government ability to 
finance incremental recurrent costs of new and expanded educational programs, such as non-
formal pre-school education and 
Telebásica
 programs. A careful first assessment of the financial 
impact of project and sector budget has been
 made during pre-appraisal and specific 
government commitments have been negotiated 
to ensure continued financing of incremental 
recurrent costs, especially those associated to the expansion of the CEFACEI and initial 
education programs, and the Telebásica program.
 The financial sustainability of the Project is 
likely given that the increment in expe
nditure is relatively small.     
 
X.
 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Important lessons from the Panama Second Basi
c Education Project and other similar Bank 
financed education projects in Latin America ha
ve been incorporated in the designed of the 
Project. 
Key among these are: (i) mainstreaming pr
oject implementation into ministries’ 
administrating structures has proven crucial 
to maximizing ownership and increase project 
sustainability; (ii) defining clear objectives, 
measurable results and outcome indicators is 
important to avoid potential problems of attributio
n; (iii) maintaining simplicity in the project’s 
design to keep under control the number of 
activities associated to each component and 
subcomponents; (iv) embedding impact evaluations 
on project design from the outset to gather 
rigorous evidence that may serve to guide fu
ture sector policy and decision making; (v) 
ensuring quality at entry to avoid delays in 
project implementation (vi) providing technical 
assistance on a timely basis well before projec
t launch in order to 
ensure implementation 
Page  9
readiness at the Ministry’s Directorates 
responsible for fiduciary and procurement 
responsibilities; and (vii) postponing intervention
s that require legislative changes or protracted 
negotiations with teacher unions, as they ma
y not materialize thus risking the successful 
completion of the project
 
 
XI.
 
Safeguard Policies (includi
ng public consultation) 
1.
 
An Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) is was pr
epared by the National Directorate of 
Intercultural Bilingual Education at the MEDU
CA in consultation with the Indigenous 
Congresses and bilingual teachers. The plan support
s the efforts of the GOP to provide quality 
intercultural bilingual education to indigenous 
children whose native language and culture are 
different from mainstream, and who may su
ffer from poverty and limited education 
opportunities. (See Annex 10 of the PAD) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
 4.10) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
 7.60) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
XII.
 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
BARNETT, S., (1993), “Benefits of Co
mpensatory Presch
ool Education”, 
Journal of Human Resources
, 279-312. 
BARNETT, S., (1995), “Long-Term Effects of Early Child
hood Programs on Cognitive and School Outcomes”, 
The 
Future of Children
, 25-50. 
BARRO, Robert, and X. Sala-I-Martin. 1995. 
Economic Growth. 
New York: McGraw-Hill. 
Page  10
BENHABIB, Jess, and Mark Sp
iegel. 1994. “The Role of Human Capita
l in Economic Development.” in Mario 
Paganetto Baldassarri and Edmond S. Luigi Phelps, eds., 
International Differences in Grow
th Rates: Market Globalization 
and Economic Areas. 
Central Issues in Contemporary 
Economic Theory and Practice Series. New York and London: St. 
Martin’s Press and Macmillan Press. 
BLAU, D.M. and J. Currie, (2004), “Preschool, Day Care, 
and After School Care: Who’s Minding the Kids?” NBER 
Working Paper, # 10670, Cambridge MA. 
CARNEIRO, P. and J. Heckman, (2003), “Human Capita
l Policy”, in J. Heckman and A. Krueger, eds., 
Inequality in 
America: What role for human capital policies?,
 Boston, MIT Press. 
CONACED (2006). 
Consejo Nacional de la Educación
, Primer 
Informe al Señor Presidente de la Republica
, Cuidad de 
Panamá, Panamá. 2006. 
CUNHA, F., J. Heckman, L. Lochner, and D. Masterov, 
(2006), “Interpreting the Evidence on Life Cycle Skill 
Formation”, 
forthcoming 
in E. Hanushek and F. Welch, eds., Handbook
 of the Economics of 
Education, Amsterdam, 
Elsevier. 
CURRIE, J. and D. Thomas, (1995), “Doe
s Head Start Make a Difference?”, 
American Economic Review
, 85, 341-364. 
CURRIE, J. and D. Thomas, (1999), “Does 
Head Start Help Hispanic Children?”, 
Journal of Public Economics
 74, 235-
262. 
CURRIE, J., (2001), “Early Ch
ildhood Education Programs”, 
Journal of Economic Perspectives
 15, 213-238. 
DANZIGER, S. and J. Waldfogel, (2000), 
Securing the Future: Investing in Children from Birth to College
, Russell Sage 
Foundation. 
GALIANI, S. (2007) “Labor market reform 
in LAC: Where do we stand?”, Mimeo. 
GARCES, E., D. Thomas and J. Currie, (2002)
, “Longer-Term Effects of Head Start”, 
American Economic Review
, 92, 
999-1012. 
HANUSHEK, E. & Wößmann, L. (2007). 
The Role of Education Quality in Economic Growth
, World Bank Policy Research 
Working Paper No. 4122.  
KAROLY, L. et al., (1998), 
Investing in our Children: What we Know and Don’t Know about the Costs and Benefits of Early 
Childhood Interventions
, Santa Monica: RAND. 
KAUFMANN, Nalin Kishor, Ramón López, and Yan Wang. 
The World Bank and Oxford
 University Press, 2000. 
MEDUCA (1999) “Evaluacion de Proceso y de Impacto 
de los Sub-Componentes”, Ciudad de Panama, Panama. 
MEDUCA (2005) 
Panamá - Indicadores de Educación 2005
. Ciudad de Panama, Panama. 
MEDUCA (2006
). Informe de Pruebas de Logros Ac
adémicos en 2005. Sistema Nacional de
 Evaluación de la Calidad de los 
Aprendizajes (SINECA)
. Ciudad de Panamá. Panamá. 
PREAL/COSPAE (2007). 
Aprender 2007:
 
Informe de Progreso Educativo en Panamá
, PREAL-CoSPAE, Ciudad de Panamá, 
Panamá. 
REYNOLDS, A., (1998), “Extended Early Childhood Interventi
on and School Achievement: Age Thirteen Findings 
from the Chicago Longitudinal Study”, 
Child Development
, 69, 231-246. 
SCHWEINHART, L. J., J. Montie, Z. Xian
g., W.S. Barnett, C. R. Belfield, M.
 Nores, (2005), “Lifetime effects: The 
High/Scope Perry Preschool study through age 40”, 
Monographs of the High/Scope Educational Research Foundation 14
. 
THOMAS V., Mansoor Dailami, Ashok Dhareshwar (2007)  
The Quality of Growth
, the World Bank Group, 
Washington, D.C. 
WORLD BANK (1996), 
Basic Education Project
- 
Staff Appraisal Report, 
Washington, DC
 
_______________(2000), 
Second Basic Education Project 
- Project Appraisal Document, 
Washington, DC 
_______________(2003), 
Basic Education Project-
 
Implementation and 
Completion Report
, Washington, DC 
Page  11
_______________(2006), 
Panama Poverty Assessment
. Report No. 36307-PA. Washington, DC.  
_______________ (2006b), 
Panama Public Expenditure Review
 (PER), World Bank, Washington, D.C.  
_______________(2007a), 
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
 Report No. 39040-PA. Washington, DC. 
_______________(2007b), 
Development Policy Loan.
 Washington, DC. (Draft September 11, 2007). 
_______________(2007c), 
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM)
. Report No.  41348-PA Washington, DC. (Draft 
November 8, 2007) 
_______________ (2007d). Project Appraisal Document in support 
of the Program “Red de Oportunidades”. Report 
Np. 39193-PA. Washington, DC. 
 
 
XIII.
 
Contact point 
Contact: Alexandria Valerio 
Title: Education Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-0914 
Fax:  
Email: Avalerio@worldbank.org 
 
XIV.
 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
