Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3290 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/11/2008 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Panama 
Project ID: P106686 
Project Name: Basic Education Quality Improvement Project 
Task Team Leader: Alexandria Valerio 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 15, 2008 
Estimated Board Date: May 29, 2008 
Managing Unit: LCSHE 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: General education sector (50%);Pre-primary education (25%);Secondary 
education (25%) 
Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P);Other human development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
30.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
5.00
5.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The principal objective of the proposed investment is to contribute towards the development of 
the educational system, while mainstreaming interventions aimed at promoting equity as a 
transversal objective. The proposed development objectives are as follows: (i) improve the 
quality of early childhood and basic education programs; (ii) increase coverage and improve 
internal efficiency of early childhood and basic education programs; (iii) improve strategic 
planning and institutional performance; and (iv) strengthen competitiveness, innovation and 
skills development.  It is important to note the proposed project is expected to “contribute” to 
ongoing efforts in place from Government programs (i.e., research and development promotion 
through SENACYT), World Bank financed programs (i.e., conditional cash transfer program 
through the Red de Oportunidades and competitiveness  and innovation through the most recent 
Development Policy Loan on Public Financial Management and Competitiveness) and 
development partners programs (i.e. learning assessment systems through a Project financed by 
the IDB) and other more localized NGO programs. Thus, the proposed project expects to build 
from and add value to an existing inventory of interventions on early childhood education, junior 
secondary education, bilingual education and institutional capacity. Mainstreaming of equity will 
be achieved by focusing program benefits on disadvantaged populations and/or regions of 
Page  2
extreme poverty (urban and rural) as well as by financing programs that are in accordance with 
the rights and requirements of indigenous children and their communities.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project is expected to have four project components:  
 
Component 1 will address quality by improving teacher’s classroom practice and student 
learning in early childhood and basic education.  The sub-components are as follows:  
 
1.1
Establishment of competency profiles and standards for teachers, school directors and 
regional supervisors in both formal and non-formal programs.  
 
1.2
Development of comprehensive education programs which are relevant to the needs of 
indigenous groups (teacher education, curricula and materials, etc.).  
 
1.3.
Alignment of future requirements of instructional material, information technology and 
equipment with existing curricular programs as well as with the new curricula to be developed 
for indigenous groups.  
 
1.4
Strengthen the national learning assessment system (SINECA) and develop institutional 
capacity to carry out periodic research on learning determinants and outcomes.  
 
Component 2 will address access and internal efficiency by increasing coverage and retention 
in early childhood and basic education. The sub-components are as follows:  
 
2.1.
Strengthen and expand access to early childhood, primary and junior secondary education 
in indigenous areas.  
 
2.2.
Ensure an adequate supply of physical space and classrooms that meets appropriate 
pedagogical standards.  
 
2.3.
Promote conditional transfers as a way to stimulate demand for schooling (Red de 
Oportunidades, scholarship schemes supported by the Human Resources Institute).  
 
2.4.
Develop targeted and specialized programs aimed at reducing repetition and drop out rates 
in basic education.  
 
Component 3 will address governance by improving strategic planning and introducing 
mechanisms to improve the administrative, management, monitoring and evaluation performance 
of the educational system. The sub-components are as follows:  
 
3.1.
Strengthen institutional capacity to improve planning, management and decision-making.  
 
3.2.
Strengthen school-level autonomy and provide incentives to improve school based 
management, efficiency indicators, community participation and learning outcomes.  
 
Component 4 will address competitiveness and skills development by promoting programs on 
science and technology and training. The subcomponents are yet to be defined.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Urban and rural areas will be included, final sites to be determined.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
To be determined at appraisal.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Page  3
Ms Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo (LCSHE) 
Ms Amy Faust (LCSDE) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Refer to Indigenous Peoples policy below.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 
X
To be determined at Appraisal Stage.   
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 
X
To be determined at Appraisal Stage.   
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
The project will trigger the Indigenous Peoples OD safeguard policy The project 
encompasses strategies to integrate children from indigenous communities into the education 
system and so an Indigenous People s Plan IPP will be developed during project preparation The 
IPP will be developed in consultation with government authorities and will build on the 
indigenous survey and analysis completed for the Panama Poverty Assessment and the Red de 
Oportunidades program The project does not envisage new construction of classrooms but it is 
likely to include rehabilitation of physical spaces in targeted areas.   
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 
X
To be determined at Appraisal Stage.   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  03/13/2008 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
To be determined at Appraisal Stage.   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Alexandria Valerio 
01/10/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Eduardo Velez Bustillo 
01/10/2008 
Comments:   
