Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7586-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Education Quality Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 30, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7586-PA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated September 30, 2008, between REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of $35,000,000 (thirty five million 
Dollars) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower 
Page  3
2
shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General 
Conditions. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through its Ministry of Education 
(MEDUCA) in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE IV 
—
TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
 
case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on February 5, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsímile: (507) 507-7200 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Panama City, Panama, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC 
OF 
PANAMA 
   INTERNATIONAL 
BANK 
FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By: /s/ 
Héctor E. Alexander H. 
 
 
By: 
/s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
   Authorized 
Representative 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving equal 
access to and quality of, non-formal initial education (ages 0 to 6),
 
as well as basic 
(grades 1-9) and secondary (grades 10-12) education programs dispensed in its territory; 
(ii) expanding the coverage and internal efficiency of non-formal initial
 
and basic 
education; and (iii) strengthening the strategic planning and institutional performance of 
MEDUCA nationwide.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1:
 
Improving the Quality of Education
The provision of technical advisory services, training and goods, including education 
material and computer equipment relevant to ensure: 
 
1.1. 
the design, subsequent implementation, progress and outcome of monitoring and 
evaluation of  a national training program for teachers and school administrators 
in order to improve teacher practice and school pedagogical instruction in low 
performing schools; 
 
1.2. 
the design, carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of non-formal initial and 
basic education curricula adapted to the needs of indigenous groups; 
 
1.3. 
the promotion of early development of student skills to use information 
technology applications, including, 
inter alia
,
the acquisition of computer 
equipment in connection therewith; 
 
1.4. 
the planned expansion of the 
“
Escuela Nueva Escuela Activa
”
pedagogical model 
to selected unigrade and multigrade schools in rural  and indigenous areas of the 
Borrower’s territory and the ensuing monitoring and evaluation thereof; and 
 
1.5. 
the improved efficiency, pertinence  and adaptability of the  Borrower’s national 
learning assessment system, and in connection therewith, the building of 
institutional and technical capacity in staff of relevant directorates of MEDUCA.  
 
Part 2:
 
Increasing Enrollment in Non-Formal Initial and Basic Educational 
Programs
 
and Ensuring Successful Completion Thereof
The deployment of various education programs and models of the Borrower pertinent to 
achieve: 
 
Page  7
6
2.1. 
the targeted expansion of the geographical coverage of selected  non-formal 
initial education programs run by MEDUCA, in its two modalities, including the 
Community and Family Centers for Initial Education (CEFACEI) for children 
ages 4 and 5 and the Home-Based Initial Education (EIH) programs for children 
ages 0 to 6, and in relation thereto, the carrying out of associated training 
programs and impact evaluation thereof; 
 
2.2. 
the design, subsequent implementation, monitoring and evaluation of progress 
and outcome of: (a)  
Tel
ébasica, 
the Borrower’s  distance learning model in  rural 
and indigenous communities of  remote areas of the Borrower’s territory; and (b) 
Primaria Acelerada
,
the Borrower’s accelerated primary education for students 
with two or more overage years,  in urban disadvantaged areas, rural and 
indigenous communities of  remote areas of the Borrower’s territory; and 
 
(a) the carrying out of studies to identify the factors associated with student 
repetition and academic failure during their transition between selected education 
levels in the Borrower’s education system, including primary to lower-secondary 
and lower-secondary to upper-secondary levels, respectively, and, in parallel; (b) 
the development of targeted and specialized programs to strengthen student 
learning skills aimed at reducing repetition and drop-out rates in basic education; 
and (c) the development of  academic skills programs specifically focusing on 
students at risk of academic failure, most notably, indigenous students.
Part 3:  
Strengthening MEDUCA’s institutional and operational capacity
Enhancing the technical competency of selected directorates and structures of MEDUCA 
with respect to: 
 
3.1. 
the establishment of a nationwide integrated MIS for the operations of 
MEDUCA, including selected connectivity with schools and other operating 
structures; 
 
3.2. 
the collection, processing, analyses and dissemination of education statistics and 
data with a view to enable the production of timely, user-friendly, policy 
decision-making feeding  reports, including 
the
creation of an archives database 
and  the implementation of the 
connection of MEDUCA’s files to the Borrower’s 
network of public libraries; and 
 
3.3. 
the ensuring of support to implementation of activities for state-of-the-art 
management, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and internal fiduciary 
maintenance of the Project. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
1. The 
Borrower
 
shall establish and maintain within MEDUCA, during the 
implementation of the Project, relevant directorates, departments, structures and 
units described in the OM, among which, specifically: 
 
(a)   
an operational task team (OTT) for the Project consisting of staff having 
experience and qualifications satisfactory at all times to the Bank, 
including, as needed, staff appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule, and which shall be responsible for:  
 
(i)  
the technical coordination and the overall monitoring of Project 
activities; and 
 
(ii)  
reporting periodically to PSC on the discharge of 
the OTT’s 
functions under the Project;  
 
(b) 
a Finance Directorate (
Dirección de Finanzas)
 consisting of staff having 
experience and qualifications satisfactory at all times to the Bank, 
responsible for: 
 
(i) 
the financial, auditing, and reporting matters in respect of the 
Project; and  
 
(ii) 
the preparation of annual Project work plans, internal audit plans 
and budgets to be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
comments and thereafter to be implemented with diligence and 
efficiency, takin
g
into account the Bank’s views and 
recommendations thereon; and 
 
(c) 
a Project steering committee (PSC), consisting of representatives of the 
various directorates and units participating in Project implementation, to 
oversee progress in Project implementation and address, as needed, 
technical issues and constraints in relation thereto. 
 
Page  9
8
B.
 
Implementation Documents
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower has, through MEDUCA, adopted a Project operational 
 
manual dated July 31, 2008, satisfactory to the Bank, therein setting 
 
forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard documents and procedures for 
 
the carrying out of the relevant parts of the Project, including the 
 following: 
 
(i) 
(A) the detailed description of Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto; and (B) the detailed institutional 
arrangements in respect thereof;  
 
(ii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, including cash flow aspects, procurement and 
disbursement procedures, including all pertinent standard 
documents and model contracts in relation thereto;  
 
(iii) 
the IPP for the Project; 
 
(iv) 
the plan for the training and capacity building activities under the 
Project;  
 
(v) 
the plan for the monitoring and supervision of the Project, 
including all environmental, physical, social and information 
technology-related aspects in relation thereto; and 
 
(vi) 
the performance indicators for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, carry out the Project in 
accordance with the OM. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The OM may only be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior written 
consent. 
 
C. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through 
MEDUCA, shall select and appoint in accordance with the provisions of Section 
III of this Schedule an independent agency to carry out an impact evaluation of 
CEFACEI, EIH and 
Telébasica 
education  programs. 
 
Page  10
9
2. 
Not later than forty-five (45) days after the Effective Date, MEDUCA shall carry 
out the action plan dated March 16, 2008, agreed with the Bank for the 
strengthening of M
EDUCA’s financial management and procurement capacity for 
the Project. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure, through MEDUCA, that annual Project work plans, 
internal audit plans and budgets are submitted to the Bank in a timely manner for 
its prior review and approval. 
 
4. 
The Borrower, through MEDUCA, shall ensure during the course of Project 
implementation that annual procurement audits of Project activities, including 
physical inspection in relation thereto, are carried out in a timely manner by an 
independent auditor. To that end, MEDUCA shall (a) select and appoint in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule an independent 
auditor to carry out the above referenced procurement audit; and (b) within thirty 
(30) days after the completion of each such audit, furnish the report thereof to the 
Bank for its review and comments following which the procurement in respect of 
the Project shall subsequently be carried out, applying
 
the views and 
recommendations of the Bank in that respect.
 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure through MEDUCA that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
E. Safeguards
 
The Borrower shall, further to the provisions of paragraph B.1 (a) of this Section, 
specifically ensure through MEDUCA that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the IPP prepared for the Project and agreed with the Bank.  
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare  
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in 
the Operation Manual. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar 
semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the 
end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2014. 
Page  11
10
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MEDUCA, prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than one month after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-consultant services.  
 All goods, works and Non-
consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods, works and Non-consultant services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and subject 
to the following special provisions: 
Page  12
11
(a) 
prior registration, obtaining a license or an authorization shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures; 
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid.  
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consultant 
services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-consultant services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding (NCB)  subject to the following  
 provisions: 
 
(i)   standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should 
 be 
used; 
 
(ii)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
 
(iii)  
no
bids or proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall 
 
be
made at the time of bid opening; 
 
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
 
(v)  the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-
 
bid meeting as a condition to bid; and 
 
(vi)  potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids 
 
which should not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and 
 
contracts for small goods and Non-consultant services. 
 
Page  13
12
Procurement Methods 
(b)  Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i)   foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local  
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
 
(ii)  a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to 
 
award the contract. 
 
(c) 
Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior written consent. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of
 Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Method
s
of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
 
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
 
(d) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(e) Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
 
(f) Single-Source Selection 
3
.
Special provisions. 
All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
carried out
 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
Page  14
13
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
(c) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD
)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1) Goods, works, Non-
consultant services, Training, 
consultants’ services and 
Operating costs  for  Part 1 of 
the Project  
 
13,110,000 
 
80% 
 
Page  15
14
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD
)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(2) Goods, works, Non-
consultant services, Training, 
consultants’ services and 
Operating costs  for  Part 2 of 
the Project 
 
16,880,000 
90% 
(3) Goods, works, Non-
consultant services, Training, 
consultants’ services and 
Operating costs  for  Part 3 of 
the Project 
 
4,650,000 
74% 
(4) Unallocated 
 
360,000 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
35,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee.  
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2014.
 
Page  16
15
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning December 15, 2013 
 
through December 15, 2027 
 
3.33 % 
On June 15, 2028 
3.43 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
Page  17
16
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  18
17
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule
 
2
to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. “CEFACI” 
means 
Centros Familiares y Comunitarios de
 Educación Inicial,
 
Family  and Community Centers for Initial Education in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
5. “EIH” 
means
 Educación Inicial en el Hogar, 
at-home initial education programs 
of the Borrower. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
7. 
“IPP” means the Indigenous People’s Plan prepared by the Borrower to ensure 
that the Project objectives and activities benefit the indigenous people of the 
Borrower’s territory, dated March 29, 2007 and disclosed to the public on the 
same date therewith.  
 
8. “MEDUCA” 
means 
Ministerio de
 Educación
,
the Ministry of Education of the 
Borrower. 
 
9. 
“Non-consultant services” means, in respect of Categories 1, 2, and 3 in the table 
of Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, services to be contracted for 
the provision of lodging and catering services in respect of the implementation of 
selected activities under Part 2 of the Project not otherwise covered as Operating 
Costs and Training expenses set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement
.
10. 
“Operating costs” means in respect of Categories1, 2 and 3  in the table in 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office equipment and 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, 
Page  19
18
office administration costs, utilities, travel, 
per diem
 and supervision costs and 
salaries of locally contracted employees, including salaries of female education 
helpers (
Promotoras)
 for the implementation of non-formal initial education 
activities under the Project. 
 
11. 
“OM” and “Operational Manual” mean a manual for Project implementation as 
referred to in Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
12. 
“OTT” means the operational task team for the Project, referred to in Section 
I.A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
14. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated July 31, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
15. 
“PSC” means the Project steering committee referred to in Section I.A.1(c) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
16. 
“Training” 
means in respect of Categories 1, 2 and 3 in the table in Section 
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: (a) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem
 expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their 
training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training 
facility rentals; and (d) training material preparation, acquisition, reproduction 
and distribution expenses. 
 
