                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: NCO00001394



                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                             (IBRD-75860)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 35 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF PANAMA

                                       FOR

            THE EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



                                   May 24, 2009




Human and Social Development Group
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                         Currency Unit = 1.0 Balboa
                              1.00 = US$ 1.00
                          US$ 1.00 = 1.0 Balboa

                    FISCAL YEAR is January-December


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CEFACEI   Community and Family Centers for Initial Education
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
ENEA      Escuela Nueva Escuela Activa
GoP       Government of Panama
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT       Information and Communication Technology
IPP       Indigenous People Plan
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
IT        Information Technology
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDB       Multilateral development banks
MEDUCA    Ministry of Education
MEF       Ministry of Finance
NCO       Note on Cancelled Operation Report
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
POI       Project Outcome Indicators
QAT       Quality Assurance Team
SERCE     Second Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization




                        Vice President: Pamela Cox
                      Country Director: Laura Frigenti
                       Sector Manager: Chingboon Lee
                   Project Team Leader: Maria E. Bonilla-Chacin
                   NCO Team Leader : Maria E. Bonilla-Chacin
                             Republic of Panama
               THE EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                                     CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs



  1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation........................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Bank Performance............................................................................... 7
  4. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 8
  5. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 9
  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 11
  Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................... 12
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Basic Education
Country:                Panama                  Project Name:               Quality Improvement
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P106686                 L/C/TF Number(s):           IBRD-75860
NCO Date:               06/15/2010
                                                                            MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                            EDUCATION
Original Total
                        USD 35.0M               Disbursed Amount:           USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         11/28/2007   Effectiveness:          12/29/2008            12/29/2008
Appraisal:              05/27/2008   Closing:                12/31/2014            12/31/2014
Approval:               08/05/2008

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                       Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pre-primary education                                              20
Primary education                                                  40
Public administration- Education                                   20
Secondary education                                                20




                                                i
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     96
Education for the knowledge economy                                    4

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                      At NCO                                At Approval
Vice President:          Pamela Cox                              Pamela Cox
Country Director:        Laura Frigenti                          Laura Frigenti
Sector Manager:          Chingboon Lee                           Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Project Team Leader:     Maria Eugenia Bonilla-Chacin            Alexandria Valerio
NCO Team Leader:         Maria Eugenia Bonilla-Chacin
NCO Primary Author:      Maria Eugenia Bonilla-Chacin



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                              IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1    12/07/2008          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       0.00
  2    04/19/2009      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
                            Moderately                     Moderately
  3    11/07/2009                                                                           0.00
                          Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory




                                                 ii
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

Country Background: Panama has experienced strong economic growth in the last
decades, averaging 7.5 percent during 2004-07, reaching 11 percent in 2008. Even in
2009, when many economies in the region contracted; Panama's economy grew 2.4
percent. This growth has helped improved social indicators, but poverty, particularly in
indigenous and rural communities, and inequality remain a major challenge. One in
every three Panamanian lives in poverty and 14 percent lives in extreme poverty. In
rural areas, about 50 percent of the population is poor and almost all people in indigenous
comarcas (autonomous areas) are poor while 85 percent are extremely poor. Lack of
progress in reducing poverty and inequality is not due to low social expenditure as the
country spends more than 18 percent in the social sectors, more than other countries of
similar income in the region.

Sector Background: There has been considerable progress in enrollments in the last
years. Primary education (grades 1-6) is universal, and there have been large
improvements in initial and secondary school enrollment. Between 2000 and 2005 initial
education coverage increased from 35 to 62 percent while between 1996 and 2005
secondary school enrollment increased by 18 percent. However, there were large
inequalities in enrollment, with rural and indigenous areas lagging behind. For instance,
in 2007 while secondary enrollment rate in the relatively urbanized province of Colon
was 70 percent it was only 30 percent in Ngäbe Buglé and Kuna Yala. Internal efficiency
is also low as measured by a high share of overage students (32 percent in primary and
almost 50 percent in secondary) and low completion rates (only 817 out of every 1000
students complete primary school, of which only 600 finish without repeating a grade; in
secondary less than half finish grade 12 and only 357 do so without repeating a grade).

In addition, the quality of the education produced in the system is low. Panama's 3rd and
6th grade students were ranked 14 and 15 out of 16 countries that participated in the
regional standardized student learning evaluations in mathematics and language (Second
Regional Comparative and Explanatory Study (SERCE in Spanish), UNESCO 2008).
Countries with lower income per capita such as Colombia, El Salvador, Peru and
Paraguay ranked higher than Panama in this regional evaluation.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: This operation was strongly consistent with the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) of 2007. This operation supported two of the CPS
pillars, human capital accumulation (Pillar IV) and equity of education opportunities as
key intervention to reduce poverty and inequality (Pillar I). The activities to be financed
by this operation were aimed at diminishing inequality in access to quality education
services in rural and in indigenous areas, where the Bank's 2003 Poverty Assessment
found the largest percentage of people living in poverty and extreme poverty. The
activities financed by this operation were also meant to support the Governments'
flagship Conditional Cash Transfer program, Red de Oportunidades, by strengthening the
supply of pre-primary and lower secondary education in areas where most beneficiaries
reside. Finally, at the time of project preparation, the Bank had more than 10-year
technical dialogue and investment partnership with the Ministry of Education



                                            1
(MEDUCA) supporting similar operations in initial and basic education: the Basic
Education Project and the Second Basic Education Project.

Development Objective: The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to support the
Government of Panama in improving: (i) the quality of non-formal initial, basic (grades
1-9) and secondary (10-12) education programs; (ii) the coverage and internal efficiency
of initial and basic education; and (iii) the strategic planning and institutional
performance of the Ministry of Education at the central, regional and local levels.
Improving equity was considered a transversal principle and therefore embedded in each
component of the project.

The project was composed of three components:

(i) Component 1 ­ Improved Education Quality (Total estimated cost US$13.4
millions, Bank financing US$13.24 million). This component aimed at improving quality
of basic (grades 1-9) and secondary (10-12) education programs through a series of
interventions addressing teacher and school personnel training, curricular content,
pedagogical methods of instruction and institutional assessment systems. To this end,
project interventions intended to focus on: (i) further developing teacher classroom
practice in low performing schools (grades 1-9); (ii) designing and implementing
culturally relevant initial and basic education programs serving indigenous groups; (iii)
promoting the incorporation of information and communication technology (ICT) tools to
develop information technology (IT) literacy among students in secondary programs
(grades 10-12); (iv) strengthening the consolidation of Escuela Nueva Escuela Activa
(ENEA) pedagogical methods in rural multi-grade and selected single-grade primary
schools; and (iv) improving the technical capacity at the National Directorate for
Education Evaluation to measure and analyze student learning outcomes.

(ii) Component 2 ­ Increased enrollment levels and successful completion in initial
and basic education programs (Total estimated cost US$18.83 million, Bank financing
US$17.01 million). This component sought to expand non-formal initial and basic
education programs, as well as to increase the internal efficiency of the system from pre-
school to basic education (grades 1-9) programs. Particularly, this component was
expected to: (i) expand access to non-formal initial education programs in rural and
indigenous areas; (ii) increase the number of Telebásica centers in rural areas; (iii) apply
the pedagogical model of Accelerated Primary Education; and (iv) develop strategies for
improved level of integration between initial, basic and secondary education.

(iii) Component 3 - Strengthen the institutional capacity and performance of the
Ministry of Education. (Total estimated cost US$6.43 million, Bank financing US$4.75
million). This component aimed to support strategic investments to MEDUCA's
institutional and technical capacity to improve the administrative, management,
monitoring and evaluation performance of the educational system. To this end,
Component 3 sought to put in place interventions aimed at instituting strategic planning
and results-based management procedures to the Ministry's functional structure.

Implementation Arrangements:            MEDUCA was supposed to take complete


                                             2
responsibility for managing the project within its regular institutional structure, which
would have facilitated compliance with technical, financial, and administrative
procedures supporting project progress towards PDO accomplishment. Overall
responsibility for the successful completion of the project would have fallen under the
authority of the Director General for Education (Director General de Educación),
responsible also for the oversight of each of the three components. The Director General
for Education reports directly to the Minister and Vice-Minister of Education.

Risk Analysis

            Risk Factors                                      Mitigation Measures                             Residual
         Description of Risk                                                                                    Risk
                                 I. COUNTRY AND/OR SUB-NATIONAL LEVEL
Change in Government: The 2009         Continue dialogue with the GoP on the relevance and                      M
election and the transition in         alignment of Bank's projects with the Country Partnership
administrations could disrupt sector   Strategy with the Government of Panama.
policies and objectives.
                                       Prepare Policy Notes to share with the new Government to
                                       ensure technical dialogue begins soon after the new
                                       administration settles into place in 2009.

                                       Provide technical assistance well in advance of project launch
                                       and the design of a Project Operation Manual will contribute to
                                       reduce the disruptive effect of a change of Government.

Planning Capacity: Strategic           Building statistical and M&E coordination capacity. Improve
planning as a basis for budget         strategic and operational capacity of MEF to monitor public              M
allocations remains weak. Inadequate   investment and offer decision makers timely information on
strategic planning, a lack of clear    public investments that is linked to the budget, SIAFPA and
lines of reporting, and weak M&E in    CGR-DEC. These activities are being supported by TA Loan
MEF and other ministries leads to      and associated advisory services.
inefficiency and corruption.           Support the development of strategic plans and stronger
                                       M&E tools at the Line Ministry level. Through policy
                                       dialogue with MEF and Ministries in the context of project
                                       preparation & supervision.

                                       Support the development of and help build capacity for more
                                       effective project execution, through analysis of current
                                       ministerial systems, procedures and capacity.

Country Engagement with Other          Policy framework. Support the development of sector policies,            M
MDBs/Donors: Poor coordination         clarifying the division of responsibility among development
resulting from overlapping and         partners.
competing activities financed by
other partners undermine               Donor Meetings. Playing an active role in donor meetings as a
implementation capacity.               tool to ensure that potential overlaps are identified during project
                                       design.
                         II. SECTOR GOVERNANCE, POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS
Sector Policies and Institutions:      Project provides technical assistance to MEDUCA to
Inadequate strategic planning          strengthen institutional strategic planning and M&E mechanisms           M
undermines development and             to ensure progress towards improved equity in education
sustainability of policies aimed at    opportunities among different groups of the population.
improving equity.
                                       Project will foster collaboration between other development
                                       partner institutions to strengthen synergies between projects.
                                           III. PROJECT-SPECIFIC




                                                         3
            Risk Factors                                        Mitigation Measures                            Residual
         Description of Risk                                                                                     Risk

Project execution without a PIU:          Engagement from Director level officials from the design
Transition from a PIU to full             stage of the operation, in order to promote project ownership.         M
MEDUCA ownership could
potentially weigh down                    Proposed interventions build upon regular activities within
implementation efficiency.                MEDUCA, thus relying upon existing know-how on activity
                                          design and implementation.

                                          The production of a Project Operation Manual will contribute
                                          to clarity of roles and responsibilities during implementation,
                                          procurement and financial disbursement processes. Before the
                                          launch of the program, the team could provide a workshop to
                                          determine full understanding of procedures outline thereof.

Procurement: The Dirección de             The Bank will provide technical assistance and training seminars
Administración of MEDUCA has              to MEDUCA officials in charge of procurement and financial             M
little experience in the procurement      management issues within the Ministry.
aspects of externally-financed
projects.
Financial Management: The                 The creation of a dedicated Project Unit within the Dirección de
Dirección de Finanzas of MEDUCA           Finanzas, which will be responsible for overseeing the financial       M
has relatively little direct experience   aspects of projects receiving international financing and will
in the fiduciary aspects of externally-   prepare financial reports. The Project Unit will work closely
financed projects.                        with the Project's Operational Task Team.
Social Safeguards: Government             Indigenous Peoples Plan: Consultations used to gather support          M
support to education interventions        from target population and high-ranking government officials
targeting indigenous groups has           provide a broad consensus on selected interventions.
fluctuated in the past, leading to
implementation roadblocks and             Political Consensus from Concertación Nacional. Efforts
bottlenecks.                              towards establishing long-term national policy priorities were
                                          taken into consideration during project design and will guide
                                          technical assistance and continued dialogue between Country
                                          Office staff and the GoP.
Project's Scope and Complexity:           Project Design falls within MEDUCA´s lines of action and
The project will address quality,         existing programs. Even though the proposed project is broad in        M
access, efficiency and institutional      scope, the proposed interventions essentially supports and attunes
strengthening interventions, at           ongoing policy efforts advanced by MEDUCA itself, thus
different levels in the system, which     contributing to the full program ownership.
makes implementation and
achievement of POIs difficult.
Use of Learning Outcome                   Realignment of POIs with PDOs. The team will further discuss
Indicators to Reflect Overall             with QAT and the GoP on the most suitable set of POIs that             M
Quality Improvements: Although            clearly reflect the intended project results chain. This will be
the project makes a clear association     ready before Negotiations.
between interventions and expected
quality effects, linking quality
improvements to increases in
learning outcomes would require
additional from the team.
Low Participation from                    Improving dissemination of information. The project will
Stakeholders and Beneficiaries:           promote communication and dissemination capacity to provide             L
Project and/or program specificities      stakeholders with timely information on interventions that show
receive little diffusion or promote       progress toward increased equity in access to quality education
poor engagement from relevant             services.
stakeholders or beneficiaries.




                                                           4
            Risk Factors                                       Mitigation Measures                        Residual
         Description of Risk                                                                                Risk
Sustainability of Existing Hiring         The team will further discuss this issue with MEDUCA in order
Strategies: The existing CEFACEI          to devise a more sustainable strategy for the future.              L
scheme for the hiring of instructors is
not institutionally sustainable in the
long-run.
Overall Project Risk                                                                                        M


2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

The project was approved by the Board on August 5, 2008 became effective on
December 29, 2008; by the time of its cancellation in December 2009, none of the
activities it planned to finance had been executed. The Government requested the
cancellation of this loan indicating that MEDUCA considered that the project financed
activities that were not a priority for the new administration.

This section explains that the Bank team appropriately identified but largely
underestimated the risks of changes in administration and of low support to activities
targeting indigenous groups. The section also analyses other factors that made the
dialogue with MEDUCA difficult after the loan became effective. Finally, this section
also assesses the possible implications of the cancellation of the loan.

Country Environment at the Time of CPS Approval and Project Effectiveness

The CPS under which this project was prepared covered the last two years of the 2004-
2009 administration and the first year of the Government that took office on July 1, 2009.
This CPS was focused on providing social services to rural and indigenous areas and
supported the creation of a conditional cash transfer program aimed at decreasing poverty
and inequality. The project was a follow-up operation to the Second Basic Education
Project (IBRD 7032-PA). The Quality Improvement Project was expected to finance
many of the activities financed by the previous operation, but it did not finance
infrastructure. Instead, this loan was expected to focus on activities aimed at improving
quality of education, particularly in the indigenous areas.

When the new Government took office, the Bank took steps to ensure continued smooth
implementation of the portfolio and to understand the government's sector priorities.
Policy notes were prepared and shared with the teams of each Presidential candidate, on a
variety of issues, including education. These Policy Notes focused mainly on the broad
sector issues and only tangentially included some of the activities financed by this loan.
The new administration's education priorities as detailed in the list of "Imperdonables"
(the "unforgivables") programs are to: (i) distribute backpacks, books, and school
supplies; (ii) construct schools; (iv) modify curriculums; and (v) provide scholarships.
These activities aim to increase coverage of initial and basic education and improve
quality of services which were part of the loan's PDO.


                                                          5
In August 2009, in preliminary discussions with the Bank, the new MEDUCA
management requested that most of the loan proceeds be reallocated to a new component
dedicated to constructing "Schools of Excellence". The MEDUCA proposed to eliminate
all activities related to intercultural bilingual education, the Indigenous Peoples Plan of
the project, would have been eliminated while allocations for Community and Family
Centers for Initial Education (CEFACEI), ENEA, and the distance education program for
lower-secondary (Telebásica) would have been reduced. As these activities were
essential to achieving the project's development objective, the proposed re-structuring
would have required Board approval.

Following Bank's procedures, in November 2009 MEDUCA's technical team and the
project coordination unit agreed to draft a written proposal for the revision of the project.
However, on December 4, 2009, the Bank received a letter from the Ministry of
Economy and Finance requesting the cancellation of the loan.

Other Factors That Affected Dialogue with MEDUCA

The Bank's dialogue with MEDUCA was further complicated by issues related to earlier
Bank-financed operations, in particular, the Second Basic Education Project (IBRD 7032-
PA) which closed on June 30, 2009. In 2008, Bank's supervision identified possible
irregularities in the distribution of goods financed through two contracts awarded in
2006. One contract amounting to US$1.125 million concerned the purchase of 100,000
school bags, each containing school supplies; the other contract for US$0.46 million
referred to the acquisition of children's tables and chairs for CEFACEIs.

Additionally, an evaluation of the infrastructure constructed and/or rehabilitated with the
funds of the Second Basic Education Project indicated that the quality of some of these
buildings was poor. For instance, a newly constructed or rehabilitated school had to be
abandoned because of safety reasons; others had cracked floors and/or walls, leakages
and broken pipes. MEDUCA has since taken measures to rehabilitate this infrastructure.

Further, the proposed elimination of activities related to bilingual education in the
Quality Improvement Project became more widely known in the indigenous communities
and generated opposition from the indigenous peoples' authorities.

Finally, the new management abandoned the original plans to implement the new
operation directly by MEDUCA's fiduciary departments and not a separate Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). Instead, MEDUCA created a new PCU in charge of executing
all projects financed with foreign resources.

All these issues rendered the dialogue with the new MEDUCA management more
difficult, including all discussions aiming at the project's restructuring and, particularly,
at the financing of new infrastructure.

Possible Implications of the Loan Cancellation



                                             6
Some of the activities that were to be financed by the loan currently do not have other
sources of funds or have a very limited resource allocation. The CEFACEI, ENEA, and
the Telebásica program are likely to be continued although they are not likely to be
expanded. Other programs such as home-based initial education, the pilot program for
improving quality through teacher training, activities to accelerate primary education,
activities to support intercultural bilingual education, and the incorporation of ICT tools
to develop IT literacy, are not likely to continue.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

This operation was a follow-up to the Second Basic Education Project (IBRD 7032-PA).
Its development objective and design remain highly relevant despite the loan's
cancellation. Activities financed by the project aimed at reducing the stark inequalities in
educational achievement and also at improving education quality. Many of the lessons
learned from the design and implementation of the former project were taken into
account to ensure quality at entry.

An important weakness of project preparation was that the project was not ready for
implementation at the time of its approval. The project was supposed to be implemented
directly by MEDUCA without a PCU. However, the mechanisms for this transfer were
not fully in place by the time the project became effective and this led to significant
delays in implementation.

Another weakness in project preparation was the underestimation of risks associated with
a change of priorities in view of the impending change of administration. In general, risks
were correctly identified, but the risks associated with the change of Government and a
corresponding change in priorities in the sector was only considered moderate and the
mitigation strategies were not effective. For instance, the Bank's education sector policy
note was not envisaged to address changes in priorities in basic education, but to identify
priorities in higher education and technical training. A separate policy note on efficiency
of public expenditures discussed education issues from that perspective, but this policy
note was not meant to address possible changes in priorities. Similarly, preparation of the
Operation Manuals was also not an effective strategy to reduce the risk of a change in
Government priorities and its approach to project implementation. Among the activities
that the new administration wanted to eliminate from the project was the support to
intercultural bilingual education which constituted the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) of
the project. The mitigation strategies to avoid this risk, the IPP and the support to
activities agreed in the Concertación Nacional, proved also ineffective. As the project
supported activities that had been part of the Government program for many years, it was
difficult to foresee such a major shift in priorities.




                                             7
The Bank was proactive in trying to engage with the new administration once it took
office, and accommodate new priorities within the framework of the agreed development
objectives. However, there were some weaknesses in the process to engage the new
administration. For instance, the method of engaging with the incoming administration
during the election period, the policy notes, proved ineffective at the sectoral level. Once
the new administration was in place, the Bank tried to engage with the Government
through several meetings, including a technical visit to discuss next steps in the
implementation of the project and on the possible changes to it. The team also
highlighted the relevance of the activities the project aimed at financing and the process
to make changes to it. Despite these efforts, the operation was cancelled.

The Bank team performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory as the project was not
ready for implementation at the time it became effective, the risk of change in
administration were underestimated, and the mitigation strategies for this risk was
ineffective.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(Government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

For the purpose of this section, Government is represented by the Ministry of Economy
and Finance (MEF) and MEDUCA's management, while the executing agency is
represented by MEDUCA's technical team and the project coordination unit. The project
was approved by the Bank's Board in August 2008 and became effective in December
2008. For the first six months of implementation after effectiveness, the project was
under the previous Government, while the period from July 2009 up to the date of
cancellation it was under the new Government.

The performance of both the previous and new Government is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory. The previous Government did not take the steps in time to enable
implementation of the project by MEDUCA. This meant that there were no
disbursements in the first year of project implementation. In fact, no funds were ever
disbursed.

The new Government inherited a project that had not started implementation, while its
sector priorities differed radically from that of the previous Government. The new
Government's proposals implied a major restructuring of the project and, if accepted by
the Bank, would have required modification of the project's development objective and
hence re-submission to the Board. In discussion with the Bank team, the Government
expressed dissatisfaction with the Bank's lengthy procedures for re-structuring projects.

The Government also took some unilateral actions which should have been first discussed
with the Bank, according to the provisions of the Loan Agreement. This included
elimination of activities that were part of the Indigenous Peoples Plan of the project and



                                             8
changes in project management that were not consulted with the Bank team, even though
this was a covenant in the Loan Agreement. These types of changes in project
management also occurred in other Bank projects as the new administration was not
familiar with procedures under Bank-financed loans. However, in the other cases, an
agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank to bring the project
management in line with the Loan Agreement. This did not happen in the case of this
project.

The new Government's communication with the Bank regarding this project was limited
and the information received from different sources within MEDUCA was not always
consistent. In July 2009, the new Minister of Education informed the Bank of her
intention to reduce the scope of the activities financed by the project. Then, in late
August the Minister informed the Bank of her plan to eliminate many of the project's
activities. Between August and November of 2009, the Bank team discussed options for
project restructuring with the Ministry's technical team and the new PCU. In November,
the Bank was told that these options were being reviewed by MEDUCA management.
The Bank received the Government's letter of cancellation in December while
discussions on the restructuring paper were still being held with the Education Ministry's
technical team. The Bank's subsequent queries to the Ministry of Economy and Finance
regarding this cancellation were not answered.

The performance of the executing agency, the technical levels of MEDUCA and the new
PCU is ranked as moderately satisfactory. The technical level of MEDUCA and the new
PCU worked at all times to implement this operation, and to prepare a proposal for its
restructuring. Despite these efforts, by the time of cancellation, a year after its
effectiveness, the project had not executed any activity.

The performance of the Borrower is therefore rated moderately unsatisfactory given that
the executing agency was rated moderately satisfactory and the Government moderately
unsatisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Changes in priorities brought about by Government transitions. In Panama, changes
in Government can bring major modifications in Government social policies. Under
these circumstances, new operations should not, in general, start at the end of a political
administration's term. In this case, during its preparation and even at the time of
approval and first months of implementation, there was another active World Bank
financed project supporting similar activities (Second Basic Education Project and its
Additional Financing Loan which closed on June 30, 2009). Thus, there was no urgent
need of having a completely new operation at the time. Whenever possible, operations in
this sector should be prepared at the beginning of the administration.

Intercultural bilingual education: Support to intercultural bilingual education in the
country has significantly varied across different administrations. Given its importance to



                                            9
ensure that children whose mother tongues are different from the language taught at
school can learn as much as others, there is a need for continuous dialogue on its
importance and for sharing international experiences on successful programs.

Strong power of the executive: Most decisions in the Government Ministries, including
small ones, are taken at the highest level. Technical teams have very little decision
power and even information on the policies and plans that the sector will follow.

Task management in complex situations: During a Government transition the skills of
a task team need to go beyond technical and managerial issues and include conflict
resolution, risk management, and knowledge on the political economy of the country and
the sector of reference.

Need for more guidance to task teams: In complex situation as is the case of a
Government transition, there is a need for Bank management involvement at early stages,
particularly when decisions and solutions to conflict situations are more political than
technical in nature.




                                          10
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                           Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Myrna Machuca-Sierra                     E T Consultant         EASHE
Alexandria Valerio                     Senior Economist         HDNCY
Aracelly G. Woodall                 Senior Program Assistant    LCSSO
Supervision/NCO
Maria Eugenia Bonilla-
                                    Senior Economist            LCSHH
Chacin
Michael Drabble                    Sr Education Spec.           LCSHE
Meilyn Gem                         Operations Analyst           LCCPA
Myrna Machuca-Sierra                 E T Consultant             EASHE
Fabienne Mroczka             Financial Management Specialis     LCSFM
Alexandre Borges de Oliveira Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Juan Prawda                            Consultant               AFTSP
Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo              E T Consultant             LCSSO
Aracelly G. Woodall             Senior Program Assistant        LCSSO




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                                                     141.54
                           Total:                                          141.54
Supervision/NCO
                           Total:                                            0.00




                                              11
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank. Panama Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY2008-2010 (Report 39040- PA)
2007 discussed by the Board on October 2007.
World Bank. Panama Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report (Report 477250- PA),
March 16, 2009.
World Bank. Statements of mission objectives, Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports from
2008-2009.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Second Basic Education Project, Report
No. 20334 ­ PAN, August 10, 2000.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Additional Financing of the Second
Basic Education Project, Report No. 39744 ­ PA, July 6, 2007.
World Bank. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the Basic Education Quality Improvement
Project, Report No. 43757-PA, July 10, 2008.




                                            12
                                                                                                                                          PA N A M A
                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                              RAILROADS

                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                                               RIVERS                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                    83°W                                        82°W                                          81°W                                        80°W                                         79°W                                         78°W
            10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                77°W    10°N


                                                                                                                          Caribbean                                      Sea
                                Elena
                                        To Uatsi                                                                                                                                                            El Porvenir
                                                                                                                                                                    Portobelo
                                             Changuinola                                                                                                                                                                       Ustupo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yantupo
                                 Teribe                    Bocas del Toro                                                                                                                                                                           KUNA DE
                                                                                                                                                          Colón                                    Cordiller
             CO S TA              OCA
                                B OCA S                                                                                                                                                                           a de S K U N                      MADUNGANDI
                                                    Almirante                                                                                                                                               Cañita      an B A
                                                                                                                                               Salud             Lago                                                          las
              RIC
                IC
              R IC A               DEL                                   Cusapin     Go l fo de l os                          Coclé                              Gatún     Pa P A N A M Á Chepo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Piriá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bayano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YA     KUNA DE
                                 T OR O
                                   OR                                                                                     del Norte
                                                                                                                                          COLÓN
                                                                                                                                                                             n
                                                                                                                                                                          Ca am                                                                       LA  WARGANDI
                                                         Lago Chiriquí                M osquitos                                                                            na a    Tocumen
            9°N                                               Chiriquí                                             San                                                        l                                                                                                                         9°N
                                   Vulcán Barú                Grande                                          Cristóbal                                                            PANAMÁ
                                    (3475 m)                                                                                                            La Chorrera                                                                Cañazas
                                                         Cerro                        Calovébora
                                                       Chorcha N G O B E                                                              Cerro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Puerto
                                                                                                                                      Peña Blanca                                                                                  Cerro
                      To                              (2238 m)
                                                                   BUGLE                                                              (1314 m)                                        Bah ía de                   Chiman           Chucanti        Santa Fé                          Obaldía
                    Corredor    CHIRIQUÍ                                                                                  El Copé




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1439 m)
                                          La Concepción                        Cerro Santiago
                                                                                                          Santa Fé
                                                                                                                                                         El Valle                     P an amá




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E Mcunaq
                                                                 Soloy         (2826 m)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ch
                                                                                                                                 Penonome




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     M n que
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                   Cordillera Central




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                   David




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ní
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     La Palma




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BE e
                                                                    Chichica                                                                                                                                         Isla




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a
                                                   Pedrega                                 VERAGUAS                              COCLÉ                 Rio Hato                                                      del Rey




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          A R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                               Puerto                                                                            Santa M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ll D
                                                                                             Pablo




                               Armuelles                                                                                 aria         Aguadulce
                                                                    Guabalá                                                                                                                                                                                    Yaviza                       Cerro
                                                                                                     Santiago




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tacarcuna




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r é
                                                                                            S an




                                                                                                                                Dívisa                                                                                                               DARIÉN                                 (1875 m)
                                                                                                                                          Chitre                                                                             Garachiné
            8°N                                                                                                            Ocú        A                                         G ol fo de                                                                              Yape                            8°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      n
                                                                                          Sona
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Boca de              Tucutí
                                                                                                                             ER




                                                                                                     Puerto
                                                                                                      Mutis
                                                                                                                                                                                P an amá                                                   Limón
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cerro Pirre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EMBERA
                                                                                                                          HERR




                                                                                                                                                    Las Tablas                                                                                                         (1445 m)
                                                                                                                                      Macaracas
                                                                                          El Tigre                                      LOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Puerto Piña
                                                                                Isla de                                               SANTOS             Los Asientos
                                                                                Coiba                               Cerro
                                                                                                                 Cambutal                  Tonosí                                    0       20        40    60       80      100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                 (1400 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COLOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COL OM B I A
                   PANAMA
                                                                                                                                                                                     0            20           40             60 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7°N


                                                                                PACIFIC                                   O CEA N                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33462R
                                                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
JUNE 2007




                                                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                    83°W                                        82°W                                          81°W                                        80°W                                         79°W                                         78°W                                        77°W
