Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H100 KE 
 
NWSC Project Agreement 
 
(Nairobi Water and Sewerage Institutional Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NAIROBI CITY WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY 
 
Dated June 25, 2004 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H100 KE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NAIROBI CITY WATER 
AND SEWERAGE COMPANY (NWSC). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Grant Agreement of even date herewith 
between Republic of Kenya (the Recipient) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Grant Agreement, but only on 
conditions that NWSC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into between the Recipient 
and NWSC, part of the proceeds of the Grant as provided for under the Development 
Grant Agreement will be made available to NWSC on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
 
WHE
REAS NWSC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.  
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) NWSC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Grant Agreement, and, to this end it shall:  
(i) 
carry out Segment C of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall 
Page  3
-
2
-
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying 
out of Segment C of the Project. 
(ii) 
act in the capacity of an agent of NWSB and as such shall carry 
out Segment B of the Project on behalf of and upon the 
directions of NWSB with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and public utility practices. 
(iii) 
duly and punctually perform in accordance with the provisions 
of SPA, the Tripartite Agreement and the License all its 
obligations therein set forth and shall exercise its rights 
thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Association and accomplish the purposes of 
the Grant; and 
(iv) 
carry out its obligations under the SPA with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, and public utility practices. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NWSC shall otherwise agree, NWSC shall carry out 
Segment C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Segment C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, NWSC shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain in Kenya Shillings, until the completion of the Project, 
a
Project Account
 
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
promptly thereafter make an Initial Deposit of no less than twenty two 
million Kenyan Shillings (KES 22,000,000 into the Project Account to finance NWSC’s 
initial contribution to the expenditures under the Project and NWSC’s operating 
expenses; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
thereafter, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as are 
estimated to be required at any given time for the ensuing three-month period and as shall 
be agreed upon between NWSC and the Association to finance NWSC’s contribution to 
the expenditures under the Project and for its operating expenses, and 
(d) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the 
NWSC’s contribution to the expenditures under Segment C of the Project and its 
operating expenses which are not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the Grant.
 
Section 2.04. (a) NWSC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Segment C of the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NWSC shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and NWSC, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; 
and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with NWSC on said plan. 
 
Section 2.05. NWSC shall duly perform all its obligations under the NWSC 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NWSC 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the NWSC Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) NWSC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association and NWSB with regard to the progress of Parts of the Project under 
Segment C, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
NWSC Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Grant. 
 
(b)  
NWSC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts of the Project under Segment 
Page  5
-
4
-
C, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant, or the performance by NWSC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the NWSC Subsidiary Grant Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of NWSC 
 
Section 3.01. NWSC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. NWSC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility  practices. 
 
Section 3.03. NWSC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers , or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  NWSC shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Segment C the Project and NWSC’s 
general operations. 
(b) NWSC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each FY audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
Page  6
-
5
-
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon NWSC’s reporting obligations set out 
in paragraph 1 of Section III and paragraphs 2 and 3 of Section VI of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, NWSC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Section 4.03. 
In order to ensure financial prudence, NWSC shall not incur any 
debt other than short term borrowing from commercial banks required in the ordinary 
course of business for working capital (including Letters of Credit in respect of suppliers 
credits) up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 50% of NWSC’s shares, receivables, 
cash and marketable securities provided that immediately after incurring such debt the 
Current Ratio shall be no less than 1.2.  
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 4.04. 
NWSC shall not pay any cash dividends to its shareholders 
except out of its net income subject to the condition that if immediately after giving effect 
to such action, its Current Ratio shall be less than 1.2.
 
Section 4.05. 
NWSC shall: 
(a) 
produce for its FY ending on June 30, 2006 and each FY year thereafter, 
a
positive net income excluding depreciation and amortization charges. 
(b) 
before January 1 of its each FY, on the basis of its forecast , satisfactory 
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirement of paragraph (a) of this 
Section in respect of each such FY and the following FY and shall furnish to the 
Association a copy of such review upon its completion. If any review referred to herein 
shows that it shall not be able to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for its FYs covered by the said review, it shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including without limitations, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) 
in order to meet said requirements. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section, the term "net income" means the total 
revenue of NWSC in the relevant calculation period after deduction of all expenses, costs 
and charges, as further reduced by further reserves for payment of all taxes on that 
income; provided that the net income forecast for any FY has been calculated to include a 
provision for doubtful debt which is equal to a minimum of the actual billings made in 
the two quarters preceding the review and which remains unpaid at the end of those two 
quarters. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Grant Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NWSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
If the Development Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify NWSC of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.   The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC): 
 
L.R. No. 209/4255 
 
Kampala Road, Industrial Area 
 
(P.O. Box 30656 GPO 00100) 
 
Nairobi, Kenya 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
254  20  214780 
 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NWSC, or by 
NWSC on behalf of the Recipient under the Development Grant Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director  of NWSC or such other person or persons as 
NWSC shall designate in writing, and NWSC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Nairobi, Kenya as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
/s/ 
Makhtar Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
NAIROBI CITY WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY 
 
By  
/s/ 
Lawrence Musyoka 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Vehicles may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  Other Goods estimated to 
cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
2. 
National or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national/international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured from 
the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization (IAPSO) in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
5. Direct 
Contracting
Goods and works under Part B.3 of the Project, may with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
6. Operating 
Costs
Operating costs which would be financed by the Project would be procured using 
the NWSB’s and NWSC’s administrative procedures which were reviewed and found 
acceptable by the Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
Page  12
-
11 - 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to (a) the first two contracts for works estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent each, and each contract estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or 
more; (b) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
each, and each contract estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more; and (c) all goods 
and works to be procured under the Direct Contracting procedure as set forth in Part C.5 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not to governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for routine nature contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services of consultants’ firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants 
Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
(c) 
NWSC will prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval an 
annual Training and Capacity Building program prepared under Part A.2(f) of the 
Project, as part of the project annual work plan.  The Training and Capacity 
Building program will, inter alia, identify (i) the training envisaged; (ii) the 
personnel to be trained; (iii) the selection methods of institutions or individuals 
conducting such training; (iv) the institutions which conduct training, if already 
selected; (v) the duration of the proposed training; and (vi) the cost estimate of the 
training. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
Section I
.
Implémentation  Arrangements;
1. 
NWSC shall carry out Segment C of the Project in accordance with the PIM. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Recipient or NWSC shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision of said PIM. 
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Segment B of the Project, NWSC shall act in the 
capacity of an agent of NWSB and as such shall carry out said Parts of the Project on 
behalf of and upon the directions of NWSB. NWSC shall also be NWSB’s Water Service 
Provider under the Project. To these effects, NWSB and NWSC shall enter into SPA on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
NWSC as the Water Service Provider under the SPA shall enter into Customer 
Contract with each customer on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Section II
Transitional Arrangements for NWSC
1. 
NWSC shall conclude a transfer agreement with NCC for the transfer of water 
and sewerage operational assets of NCC to NWSC, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NWSC shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the said transfer agreement which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
2. 
Subject to developments in the implementation of the Water Act or associated 
regulations, NWSC shall conclude a Tripartite Agreement with NCC and NWSB, on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, which ensures that (i) NCC shall 
lease the fixed WSS assets to NWSC and permit NWSC to assign entirely its right and 
obligations over the assets to NWSB in order for NWSB to assume full control of the said 
assets to fulfill its statutory obligations under the Water Act through its License with 
WSRB; (ii) NWSB allows the NWSC the right to use the fixed WSS to fulfill its 
contractual obligation under the SPA through the Deed of Handover executed between 
NWSB and NWSC; and (iii) NCC and NWSC will allow NWSB unrestricted access to 
existing and future customer accounts for the exercise of its statutory responsibility. The 
terms and conditions of the Tripartite Agreement shall supersede all other side 
agreements made between the parties and including the Agency Agreement concluded 
between NCC and NWSC which is annexed to the Tripartite Agreement. In particular, 
the only flow of funds from NWSC to both NWSB and NCC for the compensation or 
otherwise for the use of the fixed assets shall be based on the lease fees as may be revised 
Page  16
-
15 - 
from time to time and its distribution to NWSB and NCC as set out in the Tripartite 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NWSC shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provisions of the said Tripartite Agreement which, in the opinion 
of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project 
or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
Section III
.
Subsidiary Grant Agreement and SPA Audit; Assets Reevaluation
1. 
NWSC shall carry out at the end of its each FY: (a) financial and 
technical audit of the of NWSC Subsidiary Grant Agreement and SPA; and (b) audit of 
performance of the parties under the NWSC Subsidiary Grant Agreement and SPA 
including progress towards achieving performance targets. Except as the Association may 
otherwise agree, NWSC shall no later than six months after the closing of its each FY 
submit for review by the Association and make public the results of said audits.   
2. 
NWSC shall permit and collaborate with NWSB to enable the latter to 
reevaluate NWSC’s assets in accordance with sound accounting practices, except as the 
Association may otherwise agree, by June 30, 2006. 
 Section  IV
Annual Budget and Business Plan
1. 
NWSC shall prepare detailed annual budgets for its Part of the Project , including 
revenues, expenses and cash flows. The budget document shall include supporting 
schedules assigning budgets to departments and include pro-forma financial statements 
for the coming year. The budget document shall be submitted to the Association for its 
review no later than March 15 of the preceding FY of NWSC.  
2. 
To facilitate planning and budgeting, NWSC shall prepare each year a rolling 
three-year business plan. The plan shall be submitted for approval to the Board of  
Directors of NWSC and forwarded to the Association no late than March 31 of the 
preceding FY of NWSC  
Section V
Internal Auditors 
1. 
NWSC shall establish an Internal Audit Unit that shall report directly to the 
Board of Directors of NWSC through the Board Audit Committee of NWSC. The said 
Internal  Audit Unit, 
inter alia
,
shall ensure that all controls function appropriately. The 
terms of reference of the Internal Audit Unit shall be furnished to the Association for 
review and approval and they shall not be amended without prior approval of the 
Association. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
Section VI
Training
1. 
NWSC shall carry out a training program under the Project comprising 
consulting services participation in seminars, workshops, study tours, courses or 
attachment and fellowships. Annual training program and budget shall be submitted by 
NWSC for the Association’s approval no later than June 30 every year. 
Section VII
.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements
1. 
NWSC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIM 
and summarized in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Parts of the 
Project under Segment C and the achievement of the Project objectives.  
2. 
Progress Reports and Reviews 
(a) 
NWSC shall prepare,  under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and submit, no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter,  to its Board 
and to the Association a report on the progress of the Project, in particular : (i) 
implementation schedules updated by component; (ii) commitment and disbursement by 
components; (iii) findings, recommendations, agreements reached, main issues and 
decisions sought. Said quarterly report shall also specify any problems encountered in the 
carrying out of  the Project and include updated performance indicators on NWSC’s 
operations. 
(b) 
NWSC shall review progress reports, jointly with the Recipient and 
NWSC, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said reports and the views of the Association on the reports. 
(c) 
NWSC shall report to NWSB on an annual basis on key indicators, 
including: (i) water produced at the treatment plants, available at the Nairobi reservoirs, 
sold, and unaccounted for; (ii) water pressure and quality; (iii) waste water collected and 
treated ; (iv) meters installed, meters read and billing established on actual reading; (v) 
bills collected, accounts receivable by category of customers; and (vi) illegal connections 
regularized; (vi) implementation of delegated activities.   
 
(d) 
No later than three months after the closing of its each FY, NWSC shall 
submit to the Association for its review an annual  progress report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall set out in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request the progress in the Project implementation and the evaluation of 
various performance indicators of the water and sewerage services. 
Page  18
-
17 - 
3. Mid-term 
Review
(a) 
NWSC shall carry out, jointly with the MOF, MWRMD, WSRB, NWSB 
and the Association, no later than December 31, 2005, a comprehensive mid-term 
review of the implementation of operations under the Project aimed at: (i) documenting 
progress toward Project objectives and sustainability of Project activities,  (ii) reviewing 
the performance of NWSB and NWSC under the Project; (iii) identifying and removing 
obstacles to Project implementation; and (iv) adjusting, in agreement with the 
Association, targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project as of the date of the review. 
(b) 
In conjunction  with the MOF, MWRMD and NWSB,  NWSC shall, not 
later than one month  prior to the review referred to in the preceding subparagraph, 
furnish to the Association a mid-term report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the implementation of the Project; and
 
(c) 
Promptly following the mid-term review, NWSC shall take any 
corrective action as shall be recommended by the Association to achieve the objectives of 
the Project. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Performance Indicators 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for the 
Project implementation are as follows: 
1
Outcome Indicators
Overall improvement in service delivery
Volume of water sold (billed) reaching 91 million cubic meters per year. 
2. Results 
Indicators
(a) 
Protection of Revenue and Autonomy of Service Delivery Institutions
(i) 
NWSB achieves a ratio of operating expenses divided by 
operating revenue of 0.9 or less; and 
(ii)  
NWSC achieves a ratio of operating expenses divided by 
operating revenue of 0.9 or less. 
(b)  
Improvement in Operational Efficiency
(i)  
Billing efficiency to reach 100% of customers; 
(ii)  
For all customers, billing for each month’s consumption should 
be sent out at latest by the 15
th
 of the subsequent month; 
(iii)  
Collection efficiency for bills sent out to reach 70%; and 
(iv)  
Unaccounted-for-Water percentage to be reduced to 39%. 
(c) 
Public Dissemination of Implementation Progress
Public dissemination of the results of annual technical and financial audits of the 
SPA, with at least one workshop held each year to discuss the results of these audits. 
These workshops shall have broad stakeholder representation. 
 
