                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                        Report No: ICR0000835




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                      (IDA-H1000)




                                         ON A

                                        GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
                          (US$ 15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                        FOR THE

 NAIROBI WATER AND SEWERAGE INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                     August 27, 2008




Water and Urban 1 (AFTU1)
Eastern Africa Country Cluster 2 (AFCE2)
Africa Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 2, 2008)

                   Currency Unit = Kenyan Shillings (Ksh)
                              US$1.00 = Ksh 62.00
                             SDR 1.00 = US$1.62

                                 FISCAL YEAR

                                July 1 ­ June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     African Development Bank
AFD     Agence Française de Développment (French Development Agency)
AWSB    Athi Water Services Board
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCN     City Council of Nairobi
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
DA      Development Agreement
ERSWEC  Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation
GOK     Government of Kenya
GTZ     Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency
KRA     Kenya Revenue Authority
KfW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW Banking Group)
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
MOWI    Ministry of Water and Irrigation
NWCPC   National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation
NCC     City Council of Nairobi
NWSB    Nairobi Water Services Board (former name of Athi Water Services Board)
NWSC    Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company
O&M     Operations and Maintenance
PPIAF   Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSP     Private Sector Participation
SIDA    Swedish International Development Agency
SPA     Service Provision Agreement
SIG     Specific Investment Grant
UfW     Unaccounted for Water
UNDB    United Nations Development Business
WaSSIP  Water and Sanitation Service Improvement Project
WSB     Water Services Board
WSD     Water and Sewerage Department
WSP     Water Services Provider
WSP-AF  Water and Sanitation Program (Africa Region)
WSS     Water Supply and Sanitation




                                      i

WSTF   Water Services Trust Fund
WSTG   Water and Sanitation Technology Group
WRM    Water Resources Management
WSRB   Water Services Regulatory Board



        Vice President:              Obliageli K. Ezekwesili
        Country Director:            Michel Wormser (Acting)
        Sector Manager:              Jaime Biderman
        Project Team Leader:         Fook Chuan Eng
        ICR Team Leader:             Andreas Rohde




                                   ii

                                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA
           Nairobi Water and Sewerage Institutional Restructuring Project

                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 39
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 48
MAP.................................................................................................................................. 49




                                                             iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Nairobi Water and
Country:                Kenya                 Project Name:         Sewerage Institutional
                                                                    Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P049618               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H1000
ICR Date:               08/27/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    KENYA
Original Total
                        XDR 10.2M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 10.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company
Athi Water Services Board
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/29/2003    Effectiveness:       09/22/2004         09/22/2004
Appraisal:             03/08/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/17/2004    Mid-term Review:                        12/14/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2007         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                             iv

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                  QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators                (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water supply                                                        100                  100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other urban development                                             Primary             Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Callisto Madavo
Country Director:          Michel Wormser (Acting)               Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:            Jaime M. Biderman                     Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:       Fook Chuan Eng                        Fook Chuan Eng
ICR Team Leader:           Andreas Rohde
ICR Primary Author:        Andreas Rohde



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

1.       The development objective of the project was to build a strong governance, institutional
and service delivery framework that will enable the efficient and sustainable delivery of water
and sewerage services to the population of Nairobi. It is consistent with and supported the
implementation of the Water Act (2002).

2.       The project supported the operationalization and strengthening of new autonomous and
ring-fenced service provision utilities with clear roles, responsibilities and contractual
arrangements. The key anticipated outcome was an institutional framework that is capable of
delivering safe, clean and affordable services to all strata of the Nairobi population in accordance
with commercial and sustainability principles. Progress towards achieving the development
objective was monitored through the improvement in operating sustainability of the service
delivery institutions throughout the project implementation period.



                                                 v

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

3.      The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Volume of Water Sold
Value
quantitative or 75 million m3 per year     91 million m3 per                    94 million m3 per

Qualitative)                               year                                 year

Date achieved 04/01/2004                   07/31/2007                           06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Ratio of Operating Expenses divided by Operating Revenue
Value
(quantitative   None (new companies)       <0.9 AWSB                            <0.8 AWSB

or Qualitative)                            <0.9 NWSC                            <0.92 NWSC

Date achieved 04/01/2004                   07/31/2007                           06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        AWSB exceeded the target value and NWSC marginally missed the target. Both

achievement)    entities have managed to cover their operating expenses.

Indicator 2 :   Billing Efficiency
Value
(quantitative   100%                       100%                                 92%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2004                   07/31/2007                           06/30/2007

Comments        The decrease of billing efficiency in the target year is not a negative sign. This is

(incl. %        due to the migration to a computerized billing system and changes in the

achievement)    company's billing policy which includes not billing unverified accounts while
                aggressively reducing these accounts. (see para. 31)
Indicator 3 :   Billing Lateness
Value
(quantitative   6 months (est)             0 months                             0 months
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2004                   07/31/2007                           06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Collection Efficiency

                                                vi

Value
(quantitative  65%                       70%                                 74%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2004                 07/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments       The baseline is most likely an overestimate. It is also important to note that the
(incl. %       revenues increased from Ksh 1.5 billion to Ksh 3.2 billion during the
achievement)   implementation period.
Indicator 5 :  Unaccounted for Water (UfW) Reduction
Value
(quantitative  50% (est)                 39%                                 43%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2004                 07/31/2007                          06/30/2007

Comments       All UfW values are estimates because the system is not completely metered.

(incl. %       During the project the metering rate and accuracy has increased so that the UFW

achievement)   values have become more reliable. Other indicators were tracked to augment
               indicators of service improvements. (see paras. 32 and 33)
Indicator 6 :  Annual Workshops

Value                                                                         Once a year in the

(quantitative  NA                        Once a year                         last two project

or Qualitative)                                                              years (not in the
                                                                             first year)
Date achieved 04/01/2004                 07/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     12/13/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        1.25
  3     04/18/2005           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        1.25
  4     08/02/2005           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                   1.70
  5     01/31/2006           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                   2.82
  6     09/14/2006           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                   4.62
  7     04/26/2007           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                   8.22
  8     11/30/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       12.66
  9     12/27/2007           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       12.66



H. Restructuring (if any)

4.      Not Applicable




                                              vii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Sector Background

1. At the time of appraisal, the delivery of water supply and sanitation (WSS) services in Kenya
    was fragmented into various regimes. The Ministry of Water and Irrigation (MOWI), the
    corporatized National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) and local
    authorities were responsible for the supply of water and/or sewerage services in various urban
    and rural areas. MOWI and NWCPC did not operate wastewater facilities, leaving these
    (where they existed) to local authorities. Ten gazetted local authorities (including Nairobi)
    operated their own water and sewerage systems. "Self help" groups (registered with the
    Ministry of Gender, Sports, Culture and Social Services) operated piped water supply
    schemes to several other urban and rural areas.

2. In Nairobi, the service was provided by the Water and Sewerage Department (WSD), a
    technical department of the City Council of Nairobi (CCN). WSD's lack of operational and
    financial autonomy was a major cause of poor and unsustainable operations. The service was
    caught in a cycle of declining investment, quality of service and financial returns
    characterized by: (i) low coverage and unreliable service; (ii) high level of unaccounted for
    water (UfW) and of unpaid bills; (iii) very poor financial management; (iv) tariff collection
    insufficient to cover operations and maintenance (O&M) costs; and (v) inadequate
    commercial management. This had translated into inadequate service to the population,
    including to the informal settlements where the vast majority of the urban poor resides.

3. The Government of Kenya's (GOK) National Water Policy (1999) and the Government
    Action Plan for the implementation of its poverty reduction strategy call for full coverage of
    access to safe and clean water to the country's population.        GOK's long-term goal as
    reflected in the Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation
    (ERSWEC)--Kenya's PRSP--and the Bank's CAS envisages the expansion of services from
    an estimated 60% to 90% by 2024. In the medium term, the Millennium Development Goal
    (MDG) target envisages about 70% coverage by 2015. The MDG also envisages access to
    improved sanitation reaching about 93% by 2015.          Achieving these development goals
    represents a big challenge to the GOK.

4. The GOK recognized the need for comprehensive institutional reform and investments in the
    Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) sector in order to remove the bottlenecks to achieving its
    set poverty reduction objectives. The GOK formulated a clear policy and strategy to address
    the fragmented institutional framework for service delivery in form of the Water Act which
    was enacted in 2002. The Water Act (2002) is aimed at providing for a harmonized and
    streamlined management of water resources and water supply and sewerage services. It calls
    for a uniform service delivery institutional framework to be put in place country-wide, and
    clarifies the new mechanisms and the role of the various actors within that framework.
    Responsibility for infrastructure development and the provision of services moved to the new
    Water Services Boards (WSBs). These WSBs contract out water delivery services to Water
    Service Providers (WSPs). WSPs can be public or private entities dedicated to water service
    provision. Sector regulation is provided by the Water Services Regulatory Board (WSRB).
    A Water Services Trust Fund (WSTF) is assisting in financing the provision of water services
    to areas without adequate services. At the time of appraisal, the WSRB, WSTF and seven




                                              1

   WSBs, including the Athi (Nairobi and surroundings) Water Services Board (AWSB), had
   been established.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

5. The Project directly supported the GOK's policy and strategy in reforming the WSS sector ­
   a sector critical to the GOK's economic recovery strategy.          The Bank was uniquely
   positioned to assist the GOK to reform and improve the WSS services in Nairobi, having had
   substantial experience in supporting WSS projects in Nairobi and Mombasa. Although it
   closed its previous WSS operation in 1998, the Bank [with significant participation of the
   Water and Sanitation Program - Africa (WSP-AF)] continued an active dialogue with the
   GOK on sector reform issues and contributed substantially to the formulation of the sector
   reform plans. In 2000 the Bank led (in collaboration with KfW, GTZ and AFD) a joint
   comprehensive review of the WSS sector covering aspects such as demand assessment,
   pricing, decentralization, private sector participation, financing mechanisms and capacity
   building. The review was aimed in part to assist the GOK in finalizing the Water Act that
   was under preparation at that time. The Bank further assisted the GOK with studies to
   investigate private sector options in Nairobi, Mombasa and the Coastal Region, and Kisumu.
   The Bank did not insist on the implementation of every recommendation of its studies. The
   Water Act (2002) drew from various advice and consultations and represents the GOK's own
   comprehensive sector-wide framework. The Bank together with development partners rallied
   to support the comprehensive reform program.

6. Given that the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Institutional Restructuring Project (NWSIRP)
   represented one of the first GOK actions in implementing the Water Act, the Bank supported
   the GOK at a crucial point of sector reform. A deliberate phased support plan was adopted,
   and a calculated risk taken to help build up the service provision institutional framework on
   which future phase operations are envisaged to scale up into sector wide institutional reform
   and infrastructure investments. Throughout the project preparation and implementation, the
   Bank kept up discussions, cooperation and coordination among development partners through
   the development partners sector working group ­ the Water and Sanitation Technology
   Group (WSTG).

Higher Level Objectives

7. The ERSWEC, inter alia, calls for the implementation of structural reforms to make water
   and sewerage services autonomous (including introducing commercial and private sector
   principles), the mobilization of investment for construction and rehabilitation, and partnership
   with community based organizations to expand services to the urban poor and rural
   communities.     The Project intended to contribute to the ERSWEC by supporting the
   implementation of these reforms. The Water Act (2002) is the main vehicle by which the
   GOK intended to carry out structural reforms in the sector. A successful implementation of
   the Water Act (2002) was expected to lead to a harmonized institutional and service delivery
   framework for the WSS sector in Kenya.

8. The CAS determined that deteriorated infrastructure based services including water and
   sewerage seriously impacted the private sector's ability to contribute to Kenya's economic
   growth. The CAS targeted the Bank's contribution to the GOK's sector strategy by focusing
   on the setting-up, operationalization and strengthening of new autonomous and professionally
   managed service delivery institutions in Nairobi capable of delivering sustainable service.
   This was expected to create a conducive environment for large and sustainable capital
   investment, cost recovering operations and/or private sector participation in the future. The



                                              2

    project was directly aligned with the CAS outcomes of reducing the costs and improving the
    reliability of water services in Nairobi over the CAS period (FY04-FY08).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

9. The development objective of the project was to build a strong governance, institutional and
    service delivery framework to enable the efficient and sustainable delivery of water and
    sewerage services to the population of Nairobi. This is consistent with and supports the
    implementation of the Water Act (2002).              The project intended to support the
    operationalization and strengthening of new autonomous and ring-fenced service provision
    utilities with clear roles, responsibilities and contractual arrangements. The expected key
    outcome was an institutional framework that is capable of delivering safe, clean and
    affordable services to all strata of Nairobi's population in accordance with commercial and
    sustainability principles.

10. Progress towards achieving the development objective was to be monitored through the
    improvement in operating sustainability of the service delivery institutions throughout the
    project implementation period. The key PDO indicator was volume of water sold. This
    indicator was considered to be an overall proxy of the ability to reduce leaks, increase water
    supply, and to bill for the supplied water.

11. In addition, the results indicators were:
         ·   Ratio of Operating Expenses divided by Operating Revenues (for both, AWSB &
             NWSC)
         ·   Billing efficiency [in percent]
         ·   Average lateness in billing
         ·   Collection efficiency [in percent]
         ·   Unaccounted for water [in percent]
         ·   Annual workshop report on stakeholder consensus on way ahead

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

12. The PDO and/or key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13. The main beneficiaries captured in the PDO are the customers of the Nairobi City Water and
    Sewerage Company (NWSC). Other more indirect beneficiaries are customers of other
    WSPs in the area covered by the AWSB, as well as the broader beneficiaries of the
    institutional reforms that were initiated/implemented with the support of this project and are
    now being mainstreamed elsewhere in Kenya.

1.5 Original Components

14. The total estimated project costs at appraisal were USD16.8 million equivalent, of which IDA
    was expected to finance USD15.0 million equivalent. The remaining USD1.8 million was
    expected to come from direct Government contribution and internal revenue of the water and
    sewerage operations.




                                                3

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of New Service Delivery Framework (about USD6.1
million including contingencies).

15. This component was foreseen to support the operationalization and strengthening of (i) a new
    autonomous asset holding entity ­ AWSB; and (ii) a new autonomous and ring-fenced water
    and sewerage service provision company for Nairobi ­ NWSC. The new institutions were
    foreseen to be appropriately strengthened to ensure professional management and commercial
    operations.

Component 2: Immediate Service Delivery Improvement Program (about USD7.0 million
including contingencies).

16. This component was foreseen to support selected activities aimed at strengthening the
    commercial, financial and technical operations of NWSC. The focus was on strengthening
    the commercial operation of the six new area/business centers.       Some tangible service
    improvements to consumers were expected and specific service target were set for the new
    institutions for the duration of the Project.

Component 3: Project M&E, Consultations and Communications, and Preparation of Follow-
on Program (about USD3.7 million including contingencies).

17. This component was foreseen to support monitoring of project activities, implementation of a
    complementary communications program in support of the new institutional transformation
    in service provision. In particular, the progress and interim results emanating from the
    Project would be communicated to the public and these would be discussed, debated and
    feedback obtained. This component was foreseen to also support the preparation of follow-
    on investment programs in Nairobi, Mombasa and possibly other urban centers.

1.6 Revised Components

18. The components of the Project were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

19. There were no formal changes in the project's original design, scope and scale, and
    implementation arrangements. The project closing date was extended once, by six months.
    This was done (i) to provide sufficient buffer time in case some ongoing contracts were
    delayed; (ii) to ensure smooth payments and disbursement; and (iii) to complete the
    preparation activities for the follow-up project, the Water and Sanitation Service
    Improvement Project (WaSSIP), which were financed under the NWSIRP.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20. The project preparation benefited from the continuous dialogue which was maintained by the
    Bank with the GOK and development partners throughout the GOK's formulation of its
    sector reform program. Project design considered the lessons from previous Bank projects,
    particularly the Third Nairobi Water Project (TNWP) which was closed in 1998 with an
    unsatisfactory outcome rating. In focusing on institutional strengthening before considering
    significant infrastructure investments, the project specifically recognized the lesson "that
    without a strong institutional development to create an autonomous and dedicated service



                                                 4

    delivery framework where investments and revenue are protected for use in maintaining and
    improving services, major investments in the WSS sector are likely to be unsustainable." In
    addition, the PAD mentioned the following specific lessons:

    · The project should be compatible with and complementary to overall Government
        activities: The project was specifically designed to support the GOK's own sector reform
        effort under the Water Act (2002).
    · There should be an effective champion: This champion had emerged in form of MOWI
        as key driver of the Water Act (2002). Recognizing the importance of institutional
        reform to prove the new service delivery institutional framework, the GOK agreed to
        forgo two major investment projects in the pipeline at the time to concentrate instead on a
        small and focused institutional strengthening project.
    · WSS operational autonomy is critical for success: The Water Act (2002) enshrined this
        lesson and provides for the implementation of autonomous and ring-fenced service
        providers. This was applied in Nairobi by transferring the WSD into NWSC as a
        commercially autonomous company with a Chairman and Board members that mainly
        came from outside the city council. AWSB was also formed as a ring-fenced state
        parastatal.  The relationships between the sector institutions were governed by the
        legislations or by clear and transparent agreements which formed project pre-requisites.
    · Stakeholder consultation is important for success: Significant communication activities
        by all stakeholders were viewed as instrumental for consensus building and wide
        stakeholder support.

21. No formal Quality at Entry Assessment was carried out, however, with the benefit of
    hindsight it can be said that the project was carefully prepared regarding its development
    objective, project components and institutional set-up. The project design recognized various
    unknown factors e.g., that the sector reform was just starting, the new institutions unproven,
    the service provision in Nairobi was deteriorated and available data for project assessments
    and baseline estimations were not fully reliable. A deliberate phased support plan was
    adopted, taking a calculated risk through a small first phase project to build up the service
    provision institutional framework before considering scaling up into wide institutional
    support and infrastructure investments.

22. Reflecting the unknown factors, some project assumptions in hindsight were overoptimistic:

    · the assumption that institutional change alone, without major investments, can bring
        significant level of service improvement, were proven in some instances e.g., in
        increasing financial sustainability of operations and increasing provision of water to
        Nairobians, but were overoptimistic in some other cases, e.g., the indicator of UFW
        should have taken into consideration that institutional reform alone can reduce
        administrative losses, but normally has only limited impact on technical losses;
    · the risk that "new institutions do not have autonomy to execute their mandates" was
        rightly rated as substantial. However, the risk mitigation measures focused solely on
        pushing back the influence of the CCN over the Board of NWSC, but did not consider the
        risk that new players such as the MOWI might also threaten the autonomy of the new
        service providers. The composition of the Board of AWSB at project effectiveness
        reflected all major stakeholders. While AWSB and NWSC were able to execute their
        mandates during the project, subsequent appointments of new Board members by MOWI
        may have increased the control the MOWI has over AWSB. This was possible due to a
        lack of clear procedures for the selection of WSB Board members.




                                                5

2.2 Implementation

23. During project implementation no major shifts in the GOK's water sector policy occurred and
    therefore no major changes in project design or in the institutional set-up were deemed
    necessary. At no time was the project at risk status.

24. Several major factors contributed to the successful implementation of the project. The
    project concept and approach were appropriate given the situation in Kenya at that time and
    that the MOWI continued to be the champion of the GOK's water sector reform. Throughout
    the project, MOWI continued with the sector reform ­ with development partner support in
    various areas.    This provided for a conducive environment for the implementation of
    NWSIRP (as well as other development partner efforts) and allowed the implementing
    agencies to implement institutional changes and improvement to carry out their mandates.
    Development partner partnership strengthened during the period ­ periodic WSTG-GOK
    meetings were instituted, a Partnership Principles agreement was signed between DPs and
    GOK, and an annual sector conference started in 2006.

25. The Bank provided technical assistance through close supervision and allowed the project to
    flexibly respond to emerging issues and needs (within the scope of the project) while keeping
    the focus on the ultimate institutional objective of the project.        The Bank facilitated
    partnerships between AWSB/NWSC and regional utilities in Uganda and Tanzania e.g.,
    through exchange visits and cross-learning and through a small project-supported consultancy
    where the successful National Water and Sewerage Corporation of Uganda advised NWSC
    on billing and collection systems and reorganization issues.         The Bank leveraged joint
    missions with Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KFW) and Agence Française de
    Développment (AFD), and full participation at the WSTG, to highlight and address sector
    reform issues beyond the ambit of the project.

26. The only implementation issue which emerged was delays in payment of invoices. Due to
    constraints in Kenya's legal framework, the implementing agencies cannot administer their
    own Special Accounts but have to rely on the MOF to do so, with the MOWI as another
    approval authority. This delayed funds flow and disbursement affecting Bank projects in
    general. In NWSIRP, this was resolved after significant effort of the implementing agencies
    to reach agreed funds applications and flow procedures with MOF and MOWI. Later in the
    project, improved financial performance further mitigated this issue by allowing NWSC to
    utilize its own funds in advance, for later reimbursement by IDA (although timely payment of
    invoices improved through this method, the later IDA reimbursements show up as delayed
    project disbursement).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

27. PDO Indicator:      The PDO was to build a strong governance, institutional and service
    delivery framework that will enable the efficient and sustainable delivery of water and
    sewerage services to the population of Nairobi. The volume of water sold was monitored as
    the PDO indicator. Although the target of this indicator was overachieved, it needs to be
    noted that this indicator (and its target) was very ambitious. The volume of water sold
    captures much more than only building the enabling framework for service delivery targeted
    by the PDO. It already is an indicator for real service improvement, and its achievement
    implies that this project has more than achieved its originally stated PDO.

28. The fluctuation of the values of this indicator in the ISR reporting shows the difficulty to
    reliably measure this indicator in the given environment. At project start the calculation of



                                                6

   this indicator was based on a customer database which could not differentiate between active
   and inactive customer, and which was not verified by a customer survey (mapping and
   identification) foreseen under the project.      Measurement of this indicator was further
   complicated by moving from a mainly unmetered to a largely metered system which
   gradually substitutes assumed with real quantities of water sold. As such, the measurement
   would have been more accurate at project end. Because of the above, other indicators
   reflecting only the governance, institutional and service delivery framework could also have
   been sufficient, such as an indicator on number of corruption cases or/and improvements in
   continuity of supply observed by customers (based on a representative customer
   questionnaire).

29. Results indicator for component 1: The indicator of operating expenses divided by operating
   revenues seems very appropriate for measuring the success of the Institutional Strengthening
   Component. However, the reliability of the baseline for this indicator is questionable given
   the errors in the billing system inherited from the CCN (identified in the financial audits).
   The baseline was likely overstated and this might have let to an underestimation of what the
   project has achieved.

30. Result indicators for component 2: The indicators billing lateness and collection efficiency
   are well suited to cover improvements in the commercial operation of the NWSC. The
   baseline for collection efficiency in a none-computer based system is generally not reliable
   and might in reality have been significantly lower, which would mean that the improvements
   are even higher than stated in the monitoring data.

31. Although billing efficiency at appraisal was reported at 100%, this was based on a manual
    database. It was decided that this indicator would be tracked as the customer database is
    improved and a fully computerized billing and collections system is implemented under the
    project. The decrease of billing efficiency in the target year is due to the migration to a
    computerized billing system and changes in the company's billing policy which includes not
    billing unverified accounts while aggressively reducing these accounts. In hindsight, it is
    evident that this indicator does not fully capture the specifics of the significant progress
    NWSC made regarding cleaning up their customer data base and switching to volumetric
    billing.

32. Unaccounted for Water (UfW) is an appropriate indicator for measuring operational and
   commercial improvements, if it can be measured reliably. In the case of the NWSC neither
   production metering nor end-user metering was in place at project start (and is still not
   completed at project end), so that reliable UfW rates cannot be established. Therefore the
   project's M&E system should have relied more on customer questionnaires and stakeholder
   workshops which were carried out under the project and which provided clear indication that
   duration and quantity of water supply has improved in Nairobi. Alternatively a few randomly
   installed customer meters and pressure monitors could have been monitored during the
   project period to capture changes in water delivery.

33. During Mid-Term Review (MTR), it was noted that although the project indicators were
    largely relevant, calculations for some indicators i.e., volume sold, collection efficiency and
    unaccounted-for-water, UfW) were susceptible data reliability issues. These indicators were
    retained (especially given the short project duration), but were subsequently augmented with
    other indicators that could provide a proxy for improved reliability and sustainability.
    Available information on customer satisfaction and expansion of services (to augment service
    reliability indicators) and actual revenue collection (to augment sustainability indicators)
    were subsequently tabulated.



                                              7

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

34. The project was classified as Environmental Category C, because it focused on institutional
    development and contained only minor investments. The project did not have to deal with
    any significant environmental issues during implementation.

35. Procurement of works, goods and consultancy services was efficiently conducted by the
    implementing agencies ­ AWSB and NWSC. IDA and the implementing agencies had
    worked out an elaborate procedure of preparing, reviewing and clearing procurement
    documents. While the process was slow at the beginning, it latter picked up and procurement
    was done for all the activities under the agreed procurement plans. There were no major
    bottlenecks, however, three minor issues were noted and adequately resolved. These issues
    were as follows:

    (i) There were initial delays in obtaining exemption of duty before the delivery of goods
         from outside the country. This was, however, addressed through the use of advanced in-
         principle blanket exemptions, which expedited the process of custom clearance as
         specific goods were imported throughout the project.
    (ii) In two goods contracts under NWSC the awarded lowest evaluated bidder submitted
         faked bank guarantees. NWSC brought these to the Bank's attention. Both bidders were
         disqualified and the second lowest evaluated bidder awarded the contract. Since the
         contract was NCB, NWSC took appropriate measures under the government regulations.
    (iii)In a consultancy contract under AWSB, one of the applicants had questioned the process
         of award of the contract. An explanation was provided and the complainant was satisfied
         with the explanation given.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

36. As envisaged in the NWSIRP, the successful completion of the project to demonstrate a
    successful service delivery institutional framework as the pre-requisite to a scaled-up follow
    on project has been realized.       The Water Supply and Sanitation Improvement Project
    (WaSSIP) was approved in December 2007 and will continue to provide assistance to
    institutional reform. It will also have a large investment component aimed at expanding
    service provision coverage including in informal settlements. WaSSIP also scales up the
    scope of support to three WSBs - the Athi, Coast and Lake Victoria Water Services Boards.
    The partnership with the German and French development agencies were leveraged towards
    cooperative and coordinated project preparation ­ WaSSIP is being parallel financed with
    KfW and AFD with significant cross support activities. The inclusion of two additional
    WSBs allows the Bank to scale up its institutional strengthening support to other areas based
    on the successful approach in NWSIRP. However, institutional support alone cannot solve
    the problems of water supply and sanitation services in Nairobi or elsewhere in Kenya,
    therefore WaSSIP will help to strengthen the proven institutional framework and couple this
    with significant and sustainable infrastructure investments in the sector.

37. It is important to note that a monitoring and evaluation system is in place that will continue to
    monitor the project's performance indicators. Most of the project's performance indicators
    are also performance indicators under the follow-up WaSSIP. Only the indicators "billing
    lateness" which is currently already at zero month and the indicator billing efficiency which
    as discussed above is not very useful, have been dropped.




                                               8

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

38. The objective of the NWSIRP continues to be highly relevant to achieve Kenya's priorities
    outlined in the GOK's PRSP document, the ERSWEC, which foresees the implementation of
    structural reforms to improve water and sewerage services and to make them autonomous.
    This is completely in line with the NWSIRP's development objective to build a strong
    governance, institutional and service delivery framework that will enable the efficient and
    sustainable delivery of water and sewerage services to the population of Nairobi.

39. As outlined above, the objective of the NWSIRP was also highly relevant to the FY04 CAS
    which supported the ERSWEC and foresaw the Bank supporting the GOK's efforts in setting
    up, operationalize and strengthen the new autonomous WSPs. The FY07 CAS Progress
    Report re-emphasized the relevance of the project to achieve outcomes related to (i) reducing
    cost and improving reliability of water services in Nairobi; (ii) establishing a conducive
    institutional and regulatory environment; and (iii) improving financial viability.

40. The project design targeted both the NWSC as the WSP in charge of the operation of the
    water supply and sanitation system in Nairobi, and the AWSB responsible for water
    infrastructure development and for the provision of water supply and sanitation services in
    Nairobi (and elsewhere in its service area). The design features of the project supported: (i)
    improvements in governance; (i) increased technical and financial efficiency of the operation;
    (iii) improved service delivery; and (iv) better communication.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

41. All three objectives of the PDO [improved (i) governance, (ii) institutional set-up, and (iii)
    service delivery] were achieved through the support provided by the NWSIRP:

    · Governance: The establishment of autonomous institutions for developing infrastructure
    and providing services in the water sector would have materialized even without the project.
    However, the project provided the technical assistance, training and tools to improve many
    areas of governance in the day-to-day work of these institutions. A benchmarking exercise
    by WSRB to monitor and benchmark the six WSBs in the country against each other is in its
    infancy. However, it already seems evident that the AWSB is the best performing WSB. In a
    national benchmarking exercise, AWSB was ranked as the fifth best state corporation overall
    and ranked first among Kenya's service delivery entities. AWSB and NWSC introduced a
    Code of Ethics for both the employees and the board of directors to enhance corporate
    governance. AWSB has entered into annual Service Performance Agreements (SPAs) with
    WSPs in its service area. The Bank financed independent financial and technical audits
    which monitored compliance with the PAD and the SPAs. Both AWSB and NWSC are
    financially ring-fenced and subject to annual statutory audits. Operational funds are traceable
    and audited.    Early in its formation, NWSC requested the partnership of Transparency
    International Kenya (TI-K) to perform an independent survey and recommend actions.
    NWSC has been able to act on many of the recommendations. 75 of NWSC's staff members
    were dismissed because of fraudulent practices. Competitive recruitment of new staff, many
    of them from the private sector, was carried out. Changes in staff remuneration from mainly
    age based to group performance based and now moving on to individual performance based
    were carried out (only possible because of the project financed Service Management System).
    NWSC has reduced its staff by about 17 % (although it is still high with 10 staff per 1,000




                                               9

    connections). One problem NWSC is facing regarding the staff reduction process is the lack
    of sufficient funds for early retirement benefits.

    · Institutional set-up: The organizational setup of AWSB was completed. NWSC, which
    inherited its operational organization from the WSD of CCN, carried out a re-organization
    into area business units to be closer to its customers. AWSB is now ISO:9001 certified while
    NWSC is pursuing similar certification. NWSC was able to implement a Bank financed
    computerized billing and collection system which is now up and running (although some
    issues still need to be improved). With this system NWSC is now cleaning up its customer
    accounts database and identifying inactive and non-existing customers. NWSC is shifting
    from flat rate billing to volumetric billing. These are major institutional changes which will
    allow NWSC to improve demand management and conserve water which can be made
    available to un- or under-served customers. It will also allow NWSC to improve further its
    revenue generation. Significant improvements also occurred in the Financial Management
    system, the Record System and the asset valuation.

    · Service delivery: The PDO indicator "Volume of Water Sold" is a direct indicator for the
    service delivery improvements and the indicator has increased from 75 million cubic meter
    per year to 94 million cubic meter per year, above the ambitious project target of 91 million
    cubic meter per year. NWSC revenue improved from Ksh1.5bn to Ksh3.2bn (with no tariff
    changes).     Workshops and surveys show that consumers appreciate improvements in
    reliability and services delivery. NWSC's pilot schemes in several informal settlements were
    beginning to test out models for service delivery in Nairobi slums. There seems to be a
    causality between this improvement and the Bank's intervention given that these
    improvements were not observed before the project started. In addition, other WSPs that
    were not covered under the project did not achieve these results.

42. Most of the achievements with regard to the PDO mentioned above were caused, initiated or
    implemented with the direct support of the NWSIRP.            The outputs by component are
    presented in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency

43. During project preparation a financial forecast for both AWSB and NWSC was carried out.
    In Annex 3 these forecasts are compared to the actual data during the project period.
    Although there are some discrepancies in the PAD forecast figures and the actual data right
    from project start, it can be noted that the financial performance of both entities substantially
    improved. NWSC's net income increased from around Ksh48 million to Ksh506 million
    (adjusted based on first three quarters). This is significantly above the Ksh140 million
    forecast in the PAD. AWSB's operating income before interest and taxes remained positive
    throughout the project period. During the third (last full) project year AWSB's operating
    income was Ksh43 million, which falls a bit short of the PAD forecast of 61.5 million.
    However, it needs to be noted that the forecast at appraisal was done before AWSB and
    NWSC were operational.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

44. The PDO remains highly relevant (see chapter 3.1) and the GOK and the Bank have agreed to
    scale-up their cooperation on the PDO areas of governance, institutional and service delivery




                                                10

    framework by including under the follow-up project (WaSSIP) two additional WSBs. This
    support will be carried out in close cooperation with other donor partners (KfW and AFD).

45. Using the PDO as the yardstick, the different outcomes of the project are mainly rated
    satisfactory or highly satisfactory. AWSB and NWSC have improved their governance, their
    institutional set-up and capacity, and have improved the service delivery to their customers,
    and the project was instrumental to bring about this change. Water delivery increased from
    75 million to 94 million cubic meter per year. Both AWSB and NWSC are covering their
    operating expenses. The billing lateness was reduced from six months at project start to zero
    at project completion. The collection efficiency increased from 65 to 74 percent (above the
    target of 70 percent). The UfW was reduced from an estimated 50 percent to about 43
    percent, which is slightly above the very ambitious target of 39 percent. This was achieved
    mainly by improving the technical and commercial operation, since only very few funds were
    available for investments to reduce technical losses.       That makes the significant UfW
    reduction even more remarkable. AWSB also conducted two major workshops to improve
    stakeholder consultation and communication.        All of the above achievements are rated
    satisfactory to highly satisfactory.

46. The only project indicator that did not improve was the billing efficiency, which decreased
    from 100 to 92 percent from project start to project completion. However, as discussed
    earlier, this was due to NWSC cleaning-up their customer database and discontinuing billing
    unverified accounts (mostly old accounts that were not deleted after people moved away or
    accounts set up with incorrect or non-existing post office boxes that did not belong to the
    customer). NWSB should be commended for cleaning up its database. Once this exercise is
    completed, the billing efficiency is expected to reach 100 percent again.

47. A detailed analysis of the outputs by component is presented in Annex 2.

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of New Service Delivery Framework (USD 6.1
million PAD, USD 5.21 million actual) ­ Rating: Satisfactory

48. Two sub-components provided support to the operationalization and strengthening of NWSC
    and AWSB.        Activities under these sub-components are rated satisfactory or highly
    satisfactory. They were instrumental in building-up the institutional capacity of both entities.
    Besides creating a conducive work environment for the staff, these sub-components provided
    technical assistance and training to staff and Board members which were instrumental to
    increase the capacity of staff and to change their mindset. The change in human resources
    policy and practice which was initiated and supported by these components brought about
    institutional change. Such change is visible in actions such as: staff numbers were reduced,
    new staff from the private sector was competitively recruited, remuneration moved towards
    performance based remuneration, and operations reorganized to respond to customer needs.
    But also the delivery of goods, such as the motorcycles for the meter readers, was very
    important to enable the NWSC to increase the collection rate and to move away from flat rate
    billing towards volumetric billing.

49. The only reason that the entire component is not rated highly satisfactory is the moderately
    unsatisfactory rating of the third sub-component which was aimed to support the Water
    Service Regulatory Board (WSRB), although this subcomponent represents only about one
    percent of the total project cost. During project preparation, it was decided a small provision
    would be made to assist WSRB (through AWSB) to conduct several regulatory studies. In
    the event, capacity weaknesses in WRSB resulted in activities completely driven by AWSB
    and therefore not welcomed by the WSRB. The studies were also delayed and overlapped



                                              11

   with the activities of other stakeholders. This created some confusion. The tariff review
   foreseen in the PAD was carried out outside of the project. So far, tariff adjustment requests
   have not been made. However, AWSB intends to follow-up and draft a tariff adjustment
   request in accordance with the current WSRB guidelines. As this was a side support to a
   separate institution (WSRB), there were no material adverse effects on the project indicators
   for AWSB and NWSC.

Component 2: Immediate Service Delivery Improvement Program (USD 7.0 million PAD,
USD 9.23 million actual) ­ Rating: Satisfactory

50. There were three subcomponents, each supporting improvements in the commercial, financial
   and technical operations (respectively) of AWSB and NWSC. All three are rated satisfactory.
   Under this component about 48,000 water meters were installed which allowed NWSC to
   conserve water which can be used for under- or non-served customers. Originally the
   installation of only 15,000 water meters was envisaged, but shifting of financial resources
   allowed for a much larger number. The installation of these water meters was coordinated
   with the implementation of a computerized billing and collection system.            By project
   completion this system was operational and was used for billing.            In addition NWSC
   commenced to clean-up its accounts database by identifying dormant and false accounts, and
   it discontinued billing of unverified accounts. This commendable exercise resulted in a
   temporarily drop in the billing efficiency which is one of the outcome indicators. However,
   this drop of the billing efficiency should not be considered as a negative sign, it is actually
   caused by a positive development.

51. Other achievements under this component were the installation of financial management
    software which is now used by trained staff, the overhaul of the record system, the
    implementation of a customer care program, and the commencement of an asset revaluation
    program (which could not be completed in the time frame of the project). One minor
    shortcoming of this financial sub-component which reduced the overall component rating
    from highly satisfactory to satisfactory was the delay in carrying out the important customer
    survey (identification and mapping of customer), which would help the identification of
    illegal customers. This would increase NWSC's revenue generation and water conservation.
    However, consultancy services were carried out to determine the requirements of a GIS based
    customer identification system and digitalized cadastral maps were procured by NWSC
    outside the project. With this already done, it is expected that the customer survey will be
    carried out swiftly under the WaSSIP.

Component 3: Project M&E, Consultations and Communications, and Preparation of Follow-
on Program (USD 3.7 million PAD, USD 2.3 million actual) ­ Rating: Satisfactory

52. There were three sub-components. The project monitoring and evaluation was carried-out
    regularly for all project indicators and financial and technical audits were conducted. Given
    the problems to measure these indicators with more reliability (as discussed in chapter 2.3)
    could have been addressed better, only a satisfactory rating is provided for this sub-
    component. The stakeholder consultation and communication campaign sub-component is
    also rated satisfactory.     Both AWSB and NWSC have substantially improved their
    communication and consultation activities, which is evident by the stakeholder workshops,
    prevalent use of information leaflets addressing various sector issues, broad presence in
    media reports, the development and maintenance of public webpages, etc.                     A
    Communications Strategy was prepared as part of project preparation. This strategy was
    revised to support the communication plans of AWSB and NWSC.                 This support was
    documented in the supervision reports and procurement plans and was implemented well.



                                               12

    However, the Appraisal stage Communication Strategy itself was never formally revised and
    the revision recorded. Therefore this sub-component was only rated satisfactory. The third
    sub-component to help prepare the follow-up project (WaSSIP) was commendable. Through
    this component, important activities for project preparation were carried out both in Athi and
    Coast WSB areas, including the preparation of tender documents for the follow-up project.
    This sub-component is rated highly-satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53. The PAD on page 3 states that "The project will create sustainable service delivery
    institutions that can expand provision of services into unserved areas. In Nairobi, these areas
    are mainly the informal settlements where the majority of the urban poor lives." The project
    rightly focused on the general strengthening of the institution and envisaged actual
    infrastructure investments for expanding services to the informal settlements in the follow-on
    project.   This was followed-up and it is noted that the WaSSIP includes significant
    investments to expand service provision to informal settlements in the areas of Athi, Coast
    and Lake Victoria North WSBs.

54. Nevertheless, improved operations and financial sustainability achieved by NWSC enabled it
    to already embark on efforts to reach out to informal settlements. The project supported the
    establishment of six regional centers of NWSC to make the system more manageable and
    bring NWSC closer to the consumers. The ICR mission visited the regional center which is
    responsible for an area which includes the informal settlement of Kibera, which is Kenya's
    largest informal settlement. This regional center has already created a special task force
    solely devoted to improve water services in informal settlements. This Task Force includes
    social experts who are working closely together with the local communities in the informal
    settlements and some small projects are already implemented or under implementation.
    NWSC also carried out pilot scheme in the Mukuru informal settlements. These activities
    informed the formulation of informal settlement plans which will be significantly expanded
    once additional funds under WaSSIP become available.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

55. As mentioned before, the project assisted in significantly improving the institutional set-up of
    the sector and strengthening of its operation. However, the significant development of the
    sector towards sustainability brings up new sector issues which will have to be addressed in
    future phases of support.

56. The PAD (on page 14) already points out that Nairobi is supplied by several transmission
    mains from outside of Nairobi, the longest about 60 km long, and mentioned that "illegal
    offtakes may exist along the transmission lines reducing the water quantity available in
    Nairobi". It is still unclear if a substantial number of illegal connections exist, but one
    institutional issue which has arisen is the following: NWSC supplies customers along the
    transmission mains which are outside of its service area and are now covered by newly
    formed WSPs, all under the AWSB. Discussions have commenced if NWSC's service area
    and the service areas of some of the other WSPs need to be revised to reflect the real service
    area of NWSC, or if NWSC should become a bulk water supplier and hand over its customers
    along the transmission mains to local WSPs. Because of the importance of controlling the
    water consumption along the transmission mains, the GOK and the Bank should assist
    AWSB and the WSPs to implement the best institutional set-up.



                                              13

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

57. None were observed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

58. The summaries of the stakeholder workshops held in December 2005 and May 2007 are
    shown in Annex 6. In general it can be stated that service and performance improvement are
    acknowledged by a large majority of stakeholders. The customer satisfaction survey carried-
    out in 2007 showed that: (i) 83% felt that water service delivery had improved; (ii) 89%
    expressed satisfaction with the quality of water supplied (up from 45% in 2005); and (iii)
    87% reported uninterrupted water supply (up from 75% in 2005).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

59. The development outcomes of the project which should be sustained are the improved
    governance, institutional and service delivery framework for Nairobi's water supply and
    sewerage services. The institutional change AWSB and NWSC have experienced is so deep
    that the risk of complete reversal seems negligible. However, as discussed earlier, there is
    some risk that the autonomy of these institutions to execute their mandate might be reduced.
    This risk emanates from the lack of clear procedures for the selection of AWSB's Board
    members which opens up the possibility for the MOWI to control the Board and by doing so
    diminishing the autonomy of AWSB. This change, should it occur, would be detrimental to
    the sustainability of the project's development outcome. Because of this risk the overall
    assessment of risks to development outcome is rated moderate. It should be noted that
    through the phased support, the WaSSIP and continued coordination with development
    partners provide avenues for these emerging issues to be addressed.

60. The risk that the improved service levels cannot be sustained is rated negligible to low,
    particularly because it is expected that the follow-up project (WaSSIP) will continue to
    provide institutional support and also much needed investment support. Even with the best
    institutional set-up in place, infrastructure deteriorates over time and needs to be replaced;
    therefore the investment under the WaSSIP is instrumental for keeping up or improving
    service levels to Nairobi's growing population.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

61. Rating: Satisfactory

62. The Bank drew the right conclusions from the unsatisfactory Third Nairobi Water Project
    (TNWP) and focused on the institutional development of autonomous entities in charge of
    WSS services before considering significant investment support. For this project, the Bank
    based its support on the existing GOK strategy already in place and focused on supporting the
    implementation of this strategy in Nairobi, without doubt Kenya's most important city. By
    taking a carefully phased approach of institutional strengthening first, to be followed by


                                               14

    investments, the Bank controlled and ensured quality at entry.             The importance of
    development partner cooperation and common approach was recognized early.                     A
    Memorandum of Understanding with the German development agencies were in place prior
    to entry. Coordination with the AFD (then preparing a separate project to support AWSB)
    was already initiated during entry. The principle of phased long term support implied
    partnering the GOK from the very start of and throughout the sector reform and entailed
    taking a calculated risk to help build a new unproven institutional framework. This meant
    that the Bank had to accept some level of uncertainties in the policy, institutional and
    operational framework at entry. Some consequences of these uncertainties were evident
    during project implementation (e.g., overoptimistic initial assumptions / targets, unanticipated
    sector reform implementation issues) and required adjustments, augmentation and
    intervention. The project design did attempt to take these uncertainties into account - the
    consistency with the Water Act (2002), coordination and cooperation with development
    partners, and limited project size and timeframe helped to ensure some measure of risk
    control and enabled adjustments and required interventions to be acted upon during
    implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

63. Rating: Satisfactory

64. The supervision by the Bank was intensive and competent. The Bank fielded five supervision
    missions during the three and a half years, staying engaged with the implementing agencies,
    GOK and other donor partners active in the sector (including conducting joint missions with
    KfW and AFD). There was a high degree of continuity in the Bank team with only one Task
    Team Leader from identification to completion and very low team turnover. Supervision
    focused on identifying key emerging institutional issues (including AWSB/NWSB business
    plans, the stability of NWSC Board structure, the stability of the service delivery framework,
    and the reorganization in NWSC) and team resources were flexibly used to address them.
    This was particularly critical given the premise at entry as described in para. 62 and was a
    crucial contributor to the ultimate successful implementation of the project. Supervision
    reporting was excellent, bringing important issues to management's attention, and followed-
    up until issues were resolved. The team realistically rated the implementation progress to
    `MS' once the funds flow and VAT exemption issues (see paras. 26 and 35) were identified
    and followed-up until they were resolved. No deviation from Bank policies and procedures
    occurred at any time. The project finally disbursed all of the available funds, as well as
    implemented all the significant institutional measures highlighted in this report.

65. The same Task Team Leader as well as other members of the Task Team prepared the
    follow-up project (WaSSIP). Through this follow-up project they ensured complementary
    activities towards the sustainability of development outcomes after closing of the project.
    This is highly commendable.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

66. Rating: Satisfactory

67. Based on the evaluation of the Bank performance for quality at entry and quality of
    supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.




                                              15

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

68. Rating: Satisfactory

69. The GOK actively maintained and continued to implement its sector reform without major
    changes throughout the implementation period. It continuously maintained dialogue with the
    Bank and other donor partners on sector issues. These are highly commendable and are key
    to providing the conducive environment for the project to succeed. However, the project at
    the outset did experience delays in obtaining exemption of duty for goods delivered from
    abroad and delays in funds flow. These issues were subsequently resolved. The provision of
    budget to the WSBs and their full staffing also experienced some delays but was also
    resolved, with the exception that some sector funds are still provided by the GOK to NWCPC
    for direct intervention directed by the GOK, instead of funneling all sector funds through the
    WSBs. Overall, the Government performance is rated satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

70. Rating: Satisfactory

71. Both implementing agencies were staffed through a competitive way with highly qualified
    staff (although with some delays), including staff previously working for the private sector.
    Both implementing agencies carried out the project implementation in a swift and highly
    professional way without any fiduciary issues arising. Reporting on project progress during
    project implementation and at completion was timely and of high quality.            The good
    performance of the implementing agencies, together with the support from the Bank team,
    resulted in all project activities being completed and the full disbursement of the project
    funds.

72. According to the PAD the expected Recipient contribution to the project cost should be USD
    1.81 million equivalent, which should come out of the revenue generation of AWSB and
    NWSC. At project completion the total contribution was USD 1.81 million equivalent which
    includes project activities hundred percent financed by AWSB and NWSC, such as the
    purchasing of digitalized cadastral maps or communication activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

73. Rating: Satisfactory

74. Based on the separate evaluation of the performance of the Government and of the
    performance of the implementing agencies, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated
    satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

75. The project should be part of the overall strategy the Government has for the sector.
    The design was to directly support the implementation of the already existing strategy the
    Government had for the sector. This strategy was outlined in the GOK's PRSP document
    (the ERSWEC) and the Water Act (2002). The main project activities were spearheading and
    complementing other Government activities for sector reform.




                                             16

76. There should be a champion capable of leading sector reform activities. The MOWI took
    leadership for the sector reform and continuously followed up on the implementation of this
    reform. It was also important that AWSB and NWSC were championing and piloting the
    day-to-day implementation of the sector reform, and that both agencies were well suited to do
    so because of the capacity they already had and which they were constantly increasing
    throughout the project's implementation period.

77. The project focused its support on one Water Service Board and one Water Service
    Provider only. By doing so the project avoided overstretching financial resources as well as
    implementation capacity on the Borrower's and the Bank's side. With the selection of
    AWSB and NWSC as the agencies for implementing the sector reform first, the project
    focused on stakeholders which already had some capacity which increased the likelihood of
    success.

78. Ring fencing the main agencies in charge of service delivery and provide them with
    operational autonomy and accountability is critical for success. Both entities in charge
    for water supply which were supported by this project were autonomous entities. AWSB was
    created by MOWI based on the Water Act (2002) which provides for its autonomy and legal
    authority for water supply and sanitation services. NWSC (which was founded by CCN) is
    an autonomous, commercially run company founded in accordance with the Companies Act,
    with its own chairperson and a majority of Board members from outside CCN.

79. A phased approach whereas the first phase is focusing on well targeted institution
    reform and the second phase is scaling up this institutional reform and supporting it
    with significant investment, can work if the environment is right. In the case of Kenya
    there was a well developed sector strategy in place, which was owned by the Government,
    and its implementation was supported by a champion, capable to lead sector reform
    implementation. Therefore this phased approach cannot be applied generally, but seems to be
    most suitable for places with a similar set-up. It was also important that the Bank showed
    long term commitment to support Kenya's water sector right from the beginning, so that it
    was clear for all stakeholders, that if successful, the support to institutional support would be
    scaled-up and be followed by substantial investments. The successful preparation of the
    follow-up operation diminishes any sustainability thread for the outcomes of the project that
    might exist.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

80. The draft ICR will be presented to the Borrower for comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

81. The project did not have any other cofinanciers other than the Borrower and implementing
    agencies.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

82. During the ICR mission the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) which is providing
    support to the Water Service Regulatory Board (WSRB) raised the issue that the project's
    support for the WSRB could have been better coordinated with less delay, and that the
    WSRB should have been more involved in implementing the project supported studies.



                                               17

83. During the ICR mission the Agence Française de Développment (AFD) suggested that based
    on the achievements in the sector, the GOK and the donor partners should move faster
    towards a sector wide approach.

84. Other comments on the sector reform process supported by this project, including comments
    from NGOs, private sector and civil society can be found in the report of the Second
    Stakeholder Workshop on Nairobi Water and Sewerage Institutional Restructuring Project,
    May 3-4, 2007 (see Annex 6).




                                          18

                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                               Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
Components                                                           Percentage of
                               (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                  millions)          Appraisal

INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING OF NEW
SERVICE DELIVERY                        5.50             5.21

FRAMEWORK
IMMEDIATE SERVICES
DELIVERY IMPROVEMENT                    6.08             9.23
PROGRAM
PROJECT M&E,
CONSULTATIONS AND
COMMUNICATIONS AND                      3.24             2.37
PREPARATION OF FOLLOW-
ON PROGRAM


Total Baseline Cost                   14.82

Physical Contingencies                  0.21

Price Contingencies                     1.78
Total Project Costs                   16.81                16.81            100
Front-end fee PPF
Front-end fee IBRD
Total Financing Required              16.81                16.81            100




(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest

Source of Funds                   Type of      Estimate      Estimate     Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing (USD           (USD         Appraisal
                                               millions)     millions)
Borrower                                       1.81          1.81         100
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST
COUNTRY                                        15.00         15.00        100




                                        19

                                                   Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Below the project's output by component are discussed to support the discussion in Section 3: Assessment of Outcomes.

    Project achievement of outputs by
                component
    Component           Subcomponent                         Output                                Comments                            Rating

1. Institutional     1.1 Support to         1.1.1 Office Rehabilitation,           Carried out as planned.                       Satisfactory
Strengthening of     Operationalization and 1.1.2 Vehicles, Motor cycles           Carried out as planned                        Satisfactory
New Service          Strengthening of the   1.1.3 Office Equipment,                Carried out as planned                        Satisfactory
Delivery framework   Nairobi Water Services 1.1.4 Office Management Expenses       Carried out as planned                        Satisfactory
                                            1.1.5 Capacity Building Consultancy    Capacity issues were widely addressed and     Highly Satisfactory
                                                                                   substantially improved. The asset
                                                                                   management system could not be completed
                                                                                   during the project time frame and was
                                                                                   deferred to WaSSIP. This will include
                                                                                   buying a module for track down developed
                                                                                   and rehabilitated assets.
                                            1.1.6 Training (including workshops,   Carried out as planned                        Satisfactory
                                            courses and study tours)
                     1.2 Support to         1.2.1 Office Rehabilitation,           Carried out as planned                        Satisfactory
                     Operationalization and
                     Strengthening of the   1.2.2 Vehicles, Motor cycles           Increased mobility achieved through this      Highly Satisfactory
                     Nairobi City Water and                                        sub-component was instrumental for
                     Sewerage Company                                              customer control/management. However,
                                                                                   mobile workshops were only delivered
                                                                                   towards the end of the project so that their
                                                                                   benefits (for reducing UFW) cannot be
                                                                                   measured during implementation period.
                                            1.2.3 Office Equipment,                Carried out as planned                        Satisfactory

                                            1.2.4 Transitional Establishment and   Carried out as planned.                       Satisfactory
                                            Operation Expenses
                                            1.2.5 Technical Assistance             Capacity issues were widely addressed and     Highly Satisfactory
                                                                                   improved. This part of the project was
                                                                                   instrumental to achieve improvements in
                                                                                   project indicators.
                                            1.2.6 Training and Capacity Building   Carried out as planned.                       Highly Satisfactory




                                                                      20

                     1.3 Support to          1.3.1 Regulatory Design & Review       This program was not driven by the Water    Moderately
                     Activities of the Water Advisory Services                      Services Regulatory Board (WSRB) but by     Unsatisfactory
                     Services Regulatory                                            AWSB due to lack of capacity at the WSRB
                     Board - WSRB (about                                            and came only after similar exercises were
                                                                                    completed outside the project. Therefore
                                                                                    this program was of limited value. A tariff
                                                                                    review was completed using non project
                                                                                    funds and the AWSB will now follow the
                                                                                    established WSRB guidelines for drafting a
                                                                                    tariff adjustment request for NWSC.
                                             1.3.2 Consumer and Social Protection   Carried out as planned.                     Satisfactory
                                             Assessment
2. Immediate Service 2.1 Improvements in    · Comprehensive Customer Survey;        · The important customer survey             Satisfactory
Delivery             Commercial             · Customer billing system;              (mapping and identification) experienced
Improvement          Operations             · Customer Care Program;                delays and could not be completed in the
Program                                     · 15,000 additional domestic meters and narrow project timeframe. Need to be
                                             bulk and zonal meters                  completed under WaSSIP. However,
                                                                                    consultancy services were done to determine
                                                                                    the requirements of a GIS based system. In
                                                                                    addition, cadastral maps were procured
                                                                                    outside the project
                                                                                    · Experience shows that installation of
                                                                                    billing systems is a long and complicated
                                                                                    process which often cannot be completed
                                                                                    successfully. However, the NWSIP was
                                                                                    successful in getting the system up and
                                                                                    running and the NWSC works very
                                                                                    determined on solving outstanding issues
                                                                                    which are mainly related to cleaning up the
                                                                                    customer database and increasing the
                                                                                    volumetric billing of these accounts.
                                                                                    · Customer Care Program was
                                                                                    implemented as planned.
                                                                                    · The AWSB has to be commended for
                                                                                    shifting more resources to the important
                                                                                    meter program so that 48,000 meters were
                                                                                    installed under the project. However, more
                                                                                    emphasis should have been on tamper-
                                                                                    proofing these meters. Connection seals and
                                                                                    a comprehensive meter care and
                                                                                    maintenance program should be added
                                                                                    under the WaSSIP.



                                                                     21

                   2.2 Improvements in    · Financial Management Software          · Financial Management Software was          Satisfactory.
                   Financial Operations   · Overhaul Financial Management and      installed and staff trained.
                                          Record System                            · Overhaul of the Financial Management
                                          · Asset Revaluation                      and Record System was successfully
                                                                                   completed
                                                                                   · Asset valuation has progressed but
                                                                                   could not been completed during project
                                                                                   time frame.
                                                                                   .
                   2.3 Improvement of     · Spare parts                            This sub-component was rightly and           Highly
                   Technical Operations   · Minor civil works to reduce UFW and    deliberately kept small and will be expanded Satisfactory.
                                              rehabilitate commercial centers      substantially under WaSSIP.
                                          · Modeling of WSS network                The modeling of WSS networks was
                                                                                   successfully completed.
3. Project M&E,    3.1 Project Monitoring Technical & Financial Audit Services and Carried out as planned.                      Satisfactory
Consultations and  and Evaluation         project reviews.
Communications
and preparation of
Follow-on program  3.2 Stakeholder        · Communication Strategy                 Although the NWSC diverted from the          Satisfactory
                   Consultation and       · Project Workshops                      appraised communication strategy, it is
                   Communication          · Donor consultation                     impressing what the Communication
                   Campaign               · Capital Investment Program             Department of the NWSC has achieved by
                                          consultations                            opening new communication channels in a
                                                                                   very professional way.
                   3.3 Preparation of the Water Resources Assessment               Very ambitious forward looking project       Highly Satisfactory
                   follow-on WSS          Service demand Forecast                  component. All stakeholders can be
                   Program                Institutional and Legal Framework        commended for designing and implementing
                                          Review for AWSB, including the drafting  it.
                                          of SPAs
                                          Capacity Building and Institutional
                                          Development
                                          Environmental and Social Assessment
                                          Preparation of tender documents for the
                                          follow-on WSS Program;




                                                                    22

                                                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

NWSC


  Assumptions Datasheet                                                                                                                                   

  Water Services (Technical)                                                                                                                              

                                                Year 1        Actual          Year 2         Actual          Year 3         Actual          Year 4         Actual 

  PRODUCTION                               July 2004/2005                July 2005/2006                 July 2006/2007                 July 2007/2008      Apr08 

                                                                                                                                                                     

  Capacity                         ml                                                                                                                                
                                   m³/y 
  Production                       m³/y       150,000,000  145,487,369      150,000,000  161,912,488       150,000,000  166,580,338       150,000,000  150,089,689 

  Customers Connection                                                                                                                                               

  Domestic                         Nos            164,172    115,175             164,172     120,891           164,172      125,652           164,172       125,807  

  NonDomestic                                      18,123       27,308            18,123       27,797           18,123        28,011           18,123        28,011  

  Communal                         Nos                                                                                                                               

  Consumption per connection         m³/y                          761                            784                           767                             689  

  Increase  in  consumption  per                                                 10.00%                         10.00%                         10.00%                
  connection due to reducing UFW 
  Domestic                         ml                 0.52          n/a              0.68         n/a               0.75         n/a                0.3         n/a  
                                   m³/y 
  Non Domestic                     ml                 5.59         n/a               6.15         n/a               6.76         n/a               7.44         n/a  
                                   m³/y 
  UFW                              (%)                50%         46 %               45%         45 %               39%         43 %               33%               

  Sewerage Services (Technical)                                                                                                                                      

  Customer/Connections                                                                                                                                               

  Domestic                         Nos            110,000       43,657           110,000       52,387          110,000        57,117          110,000        57,449  

  NonDomestic                      Nos              18,123       5,096            18,123        5,396            18,123        6,461            18,123        6,461  

  Communal                         Nos                                                                                                                               

  Domestic                          m³/d              0.42         n/a               0.46         n/a               0.50         n/a               0.55         n/a  

  NonDomestic                       m³/d              5.59         n/a               6.15         n/a               6.76         n/a               7.44          n/a 


                                                                              23

 NWSC ­ Profit and Loss

                                            Year 1                                        Year 2                                                Year 3                                            Year 4 

                                      May 2004 June 2005                           July 2005 June 2006                                   July 2006 June 2007                       July 2007 March 2008 

                           Actual                 Planned               Actual                 Planned                        Actual                 Planned               Actual                       Planned  

Operating Revenue                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

Water services                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

Billing Domestic               2,011,007,718            446,161,000       2,467,676,037              490,777,100                2,239,079,192              539,854,000       1,803,711,090                    445,379,250 

Billing NonDomestic                                     997,920,000                               1,097,712,000                                         1,207,483,000                                         996,174,000 

Sewerage Services                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

Billing Domestic                   531,515,728          106,821,000          690,521,612             117,503,000                   715,366,320             129,254,000          687,171,177                   106,634,250 

Billing NonDomestic                                     369,600,000                                  406,560,000                                           447,216,000                                        368,953,500 

Other Income                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

Grant income                         49,695,001         110,233,000            51,545,750              87,992,000                    92,215,426              79,995,000         114,819,247                                           

Other income( Meter rent)          187,555,024            49,041,000           64,359,473              49,041,000                    77,990,471              49,041,000           69,068,214                    36,780,750 

Miscellaneous income                 42,537,448           14,208,000           37,841,825              14,208,000                    80,353,582              14,208,000           93,962,813                    10,656,000 

Other income( gain on                                                                179,090                                               867,265                                                                                  
disposal) 
Gross operating income         2,822,310,919         2,093,984,000        3,312,123,787           2,263,793,100                 3,205,872,256           2,467,051,000        2,768,732,541                 1,964,577,750 

Provision for non            (1,042,398,763)          (672,175,000)          (87,344,190)          (739,392,500)                 (250,814,354)           (697,142,000)        (414,509,407)                 (383,427,750) 
collection(WSS) 
Provision for non                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
collection(NonWSS) 
Net operating Revenue          1,779,912,156         1,421,809,000        3,224,779,597           1,524,400,600                 2,955,057,902           1,769,909,000        2,354,223,134                 1,581,150,000 

Operating Expenditure                                                                                                                                                                                                               

Payment to NWSB (lease)            166,536,681            62,416,000         406,962,730             102,987,000                   519,170,176             162,666,000          375,266,316                   153,371,250 

Payment to WSRB(PAID                                         6,242,000                                    6,866,000                                             8,133,000                                       15,374,250 
THRU NWSB) 
Payment to NCC for lease                                  62,416,000                                 102,987,000                                           162,666,000                                        153,371,250 
(paid thru NWSB) 
Personnel costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

Salaries                           351,922,881          439,000,000          508,372,621             478,510,000                   614,550,671             521,575,900          474,178,065                   426,388,298 

Cost of retirees                     87,330,475              6,000,000         70,940,729                 6,540,000                  96,243,825                 7,128,600         67,651,829                       5,827,631 



                                                                                                     24

Other Allowances , bonus        249,772,245                    40,000,000                369,831,178                    43,600,000                450,595,505                    47,524,000                357,692,353                    38,850,870
and overtime                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

                                                 Year 1                                                    Year 2                                                   Year 3                                                   Year 4 

                                    May 2004 June 2005                                        July 2005 June 2006                                      July 2006 June 2007                                    July 2007 March 2008 

                               Actual                      Planned                       Actual                     Planned                       Actual                     Planned                       Actual                     Planned 

Remuneration of Board               9,527,268                    5,016,000                 10,123,128                     5,467,000                 10,362,356                     5,959,030                   6,345,776                    4,871,507 

Operating Expenses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           

Electricity Bills                 95,532,300                100,000,000                  136,158,269                 109,000,000                  127,273,183                 118,810,000                  110,159,427                   97,127,250 

Insurance                         14,183,067                  20,000,000                   21,762,270                  21,800,000                   23,025,680                  23,762,000                   29,227,788                  19,425,435 

Operations                      331,805,491                 220,000,000                  681,084,212                 239,800,000                  575,009,219                 261,382,000                  308,301,019                 213,679,785 

Chemicals                       132,247,176                 206,000,000                  136,228,494                 224,540,000                    99,233,095                244,748,600                    83,575,493                200,081,981 

Consultancy                         4,188,303                 66,777,000                   20,283,979                  87,992,000                 105,109,961                   79,995,000                   66,174,608                                        

Depreciation                      25,795,819                  15,259,000                   52,514,556                  21,633,000                   62,808,244                  23,449,000                 119,846,814                   17,586,750 

Amortization of Grant                   501,014                  8,643,000                   1,447,378                 36,468,000                     4,856,781                 48,210,000                (56,220,403)                   36,157,500 

Expenditure                  1,469,342,720               1,257,769,000               2,415,709,544                1,488,190,000               2,688,238,696                1,716,009,130               1,942,199,084                1,382,113,756 

Operating income before         310,569,436                 164,040,000                  809,070,053                   36,210,600                 266,819,206                   53,899,870                 412,024,050                 199,036,244 
interest and tax  
Non operating                   235,621,009                                             254,953,168                                                   3,887,150                                                                                              
Adjustments 
Income before interest            74,948,427                164,040,000                 554,116,885                    36,210,600                262,932,056                    53,899,870                412,024,050                  199,036,244 
and tax 
Cost of Financing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

Interest Payments                 26,980,577                                                 7,625,717                                              24,456,261                                               31,713,837                                      

Total Expenditure                 47,967,850                164,040,000                 546,491,168                    36,210,600                238,475,795                    53,899,870                380,310,213                  199,036,244 

Income before  tax                47,967,850                164,040,000                  546,491,168                   36,210,600                 238,475,795                   53,899,870                 380,310,213                 199,036,244 

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

Tax at 30 %                                                   49,212,000                                               10,863,180                                               16,169,961                                               59,710,873 

Net income                        47,967,850                114,828,000                 546,491,168                    25,347,420                238,475,795                    37,729,909                380,310,213                  139,325,371 

Dividend @ 0%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                

Retained Earnings                 47,967,850                114,828,000                 546,491,168                    25,347,420                238,475,795                    37,729,909                380,310,213                  139,325,371 




                                                                                                                     25

     NWSC

BALANCE SHEET                                                Year 1                                                Year 2                                         Year 3                                     Year 4
                                                May 2004 June 2005                                    July 2005 June 2006                            July 2006 June 2007                          July 2007 March 2008
FIXED  ASSETS                         Actual                        Planned                  Actual                       Planned           Actual                       Planned          Actual                   Planned 
Fixed Assets in Operations                  274,534,377                                           464,660,395               106,813,000            805474356               151,641,000           932,387,121         123,108,000  
Fixed Assets under construction                 2,237,630             106,813,000                 152,361,585                 44,828,000         174,997,193                 12,503,000          208,068,386                      
Accumulated depreciation                   (26,322,017)               (15,259,000)               (86,366,552)               (36,922,000)      (184,074,565)                (60,371,000)        303,921,378           (62,865,000) 
Net Fixed Assets                            250,449,990                 91,554,000                530,655,428               114,719,000          796,396,984               103,773,000           836,534,129           60,243,000  
CURRENT ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Cash                                            1,859,497                    974,000                16,531,629                74,374,000           67,985,829              194,466,000            (6,522,572)        351,018,000  
Accounts ReceivablesTrade debtors        9,340,132,323                355,452,000              3,200,553,311                381,100,000       2,571,762,900                442,477,000        2,805,465,540          395,287,500  
Accounts ReceivablesIDA                  13,579,800.00                                         32,203,059.00                                     105,807,465                                     112,138,230                      
StocksChemicals                               58,732,371                51,500,000                186,447,001                 56,135,000           41,376,046                61,187,000       39,770,539.72            50,020,500  
StocksOthers                                227,246,354                                           197,514,399                                    300,008,257                                     314,081,238                      
                                        9,641,550,345                 407,926,000              3,633,249,399                511,609,000       3,086,940,497                698,130,000        3,264,932,977          796,326,000  
CURRENT LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Accounts PayablesTrade creditors         1,206,158,021                187,217,000              1,100,521,111                225,360,000       1,126,794,542                267,031,000           990,511,150         214,316,250  
Accounts Payables(NWSB)                    5,542,499.76                 15,604,000             35,819,652.68                  25,746,000      73,456,218.99                  40,667,000     132,668,518.35             38,343,000  
Accounts Payables(WSRB)                       113,112.24                  1,560,000                 731,013.32                  1,716,000       1,499,106.51                   2,033,000        2,707,520.78             3,834,000  
Accounts Payables(NCC)                   13,954,206.00                  15,604,000             36,550,666.00                  25,747,000      74,955,325.50                  40,666,000     135,376,039.13             38,343,000  
Accounts Payables(Capital credit.)                                                                                                                                                                                                
Provision                                1,528,632,359                                            523,580,176                                    358,590,406                                     363,562,595                      
Tax payable                                                             49,212,000                                            10,863,000                                     16,169,000                                59,721,750  
Divided payable                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
LT debt due in less than one year             13,930,153                                            13,930,153                                   213,930,153                                     118,017,192                      
                                        2,768,330,351                 269,197,000              1,711,132,772                289,432,000       1,849,225,752                366,566,000        1,742,843,016          354,558,000  
Total Assets                            7,123,669,984                 230,283,000              2,452,772,055                336,896,000       2,034,111,729                435,337,000        2,358,624,090          502,011,000  
Equity and Long term liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Share Capital                                       100,000                                               100,000                                        100,000                                         100,000                  
Capital Grant                                   1,007,350             106,813,000                   83,807,118              151,641,000          304,163,173               164,144,000      379,048,480.43           123,108,000  
Cumulative write on Grant                          (25,184)               8,643,000                 (8,763,906)               45,081,000         (30,997,703)                93,291,000      96,091,146.95           106,125,750  
Revenue Reserve                               47,967,850              114,827,000                 593,750,142               140,174,000          964,932,028               177,902,000        1,259,853,385          272,777,250  
Long Term Debt                                62,015,617                                            81,704,050                                     98,690,821                                    121,659,167                      
Capital Reserve                          7,012,604,351                                         1,702,174,651                                     697,223,410                                     694,054,205                      
Equity and Long term liabilities        7,123,669,984                 230,283,000              2,452,772,055                336,896,000       2,034,111,729                435,337,000        2,358,624,091          502,011,000 




                                                                                                              26

NWSC ­ Cash Flow

                                                               2005           2006              2007              2008
  Surplus (Deficit) for the Period                                47,258,974       679,197,259       238,475,795        380,310,213
  Adjustments for : 
  Depreciation                                                    23,819,802        62,546,750        97,708,013        119,846,814
  (Deficit) Surplus before working capital changes                71,078,776       741,744,009       336,183,808        500,157,027
  Trade and other receivables                                    315,044,893      (660,675,068)     (293,123,697)      (302,499,620)
   Trade and other payables                                     (132,984,572)      140,172,926       121,773,059          (344,863)
   Inventories                                                   (61,249,341)      108,432,076      (131,062,576)       (12,467,475)
  Net Cash absorbed by Operating Activities                      120,810,980      (410,070,066)     (302,413,214)       184,845,069
  Cash flow from Investing 
  Purchase of fixed Assets                                      (236,478,778)     (380,543,202)     (363,449,570)      (159,983,959)
  Net Cash from Investing                                       (236,478,778)     (380,543,202)     (363,449,570)      (159,983,959)
  Cash flow from Financing 
  Share Capital                                                      100,000                 0                 0                  0
  Net proceeds from borrowings                                    45,347,153        (8,519,655)      183,010,917       (101,821,223)
  Net proceeds from grant                                            982,166        74,061,046       198,122,258          2,451,712
  Net Cash from Financing                                         46,429,319        65,541,391       381,133,175        (99,369,511)
  Net Increase in cash and cash Equivalents                        1,840,297        14,672,132        51,454,199        (74,508,400)
  Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning  of the Period           19,200         1,859,497        16,531,629         67,985,829
  Cash and cash equivalents at the end  of the Period              1,859,497        16,531,629        67,985,828         (6,522,571)




                                                                       27

AWSB
Profit & Loss                               Year 1              Year 2              Year 3
                                          2005/2005           2005/2006           2006/2007
                                     Actual      Target   Actual      Target  Actual     Target
                                           Ksh 000             Ksh 000             Ksh 000
OPERATING REVENUE
Lease Fees :
           NWSC                       166,536     131,274  407,793    212,840 500,242     333,465
           Other WSPs                                                          14,258
Other Income                              400           0    1,410          0   3,436           0
Grant Income                          21,143       65,853  130,109    230,894 205,971     183,809
Net Operating Revenue                188,080      197,127  539,312    443,734 723,907     517,274


OPERATING EXPENDITURE
Employee / Personnel                  26,115       22,800   50,481     24,852  69,136      27,089
Office Expenses and Running Cost      16,114        3,183   34,290      3,469  44,964       3,782
Depreciation                              255       8,643    3,538     36,438   8,145      48,210
Payment to NCC                        83,268       62,616  203,753    102,987 251,416     162,666
Payment to WSRB                                     6,242   27,537      6,866  20,740       8,133
Grant Reserve Write down                5,838      15,259  100,939     21,663 203,285      23,449
Consultancy Expenses(Operation)         8,380      64,824   38,943    229,687  83,591     182,356
Total Operating Expenditure          139,970      183,567  459,481    425,962 681,278     455,685


Operating Income Before interest and
Taxes                                  48,110      13,560   79,832     17,772  42,629      61,589




                                                          28

AWSB
Balance Sheet                                   Year 1              Year 2              Year 3
                                              2005/2005           2005/2006           2006/2007
                                         Actual      Target   Actual      Target  Actual     Target
                                               Ksh 000             Ksh 000             Ksh 000
FIXED ASSETS


Net Fixed Assets                            8,694      45,242   37,262    218,144 116,468     277,097


CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & Bank balances                      104,552      12,807  129,413     18,505  92,469     118,591
Deferred Income (IDA Grant)
Accounts Receivable(Trade Debtors)        15,743       49,232   82,766    110,933 167,960     129,319
Stock


Total Current Assets                      120,295      62,039  212,179    129,438 260,429     247,910



CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable (trade creditors)        16,967       17,960   68,743     28,330 131,625      43,645
Deferred Income                           56,795                35,915             28,487
Tax Payable                                             4,068               5,331              18,477
Total Current Liabilities                 73,762       22,028  104,657     33,661 160,112      62,122
TOTAL ASSETS                              55,227       85,253  144,784    313,921 216,785     462,885


EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
GOK Grant                                       0      60,501             255,066             337,469
Retained Earnings (Accumulated funds)     48,110        9,492  127,941     21,932 170,061      65,045
Cumulative Write-down on Grant (Deferred
income)                                     7,117      15,259   16,843     36,922  46,725      60,371


Total Equity and Long term debt           55,227       85,252  144,784    313,920 216,785     462,885


                                                              29

AWSB
Cashflow Flow statement                       Year 1              Year 2               Year 3
                                            2005/2005           2005/2006             2006/2007
                                       Actual      Target   Actual      Target   Actual      Target
                                             Ksh 000             Ksh 000               Ksh 000


Cashflow form Operations                113,500       6,191   56,731      20,473  43,088      124,847


Cashflow from Financing                       0      60,501       0     194,565        0       82,403


Cashflows from Investing                 -8,948     -53,885  -32,107    -209,340  -80,032    -107,163


Net Increase in cash and cash
equivalents                             104,552      12,807   24,624      5,698   -36,944     100,087


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning
of period                                     0           0  104,552      12,807 129,413       18,505
Prior Year Adjustments                                           237
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
period                                  104,552      12,807  129,413      18,505  92,469      118,592




                                                            30

 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

Names                                 Title                                          Unit          Responsibility/
                                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Devendra Bajgain                      Operations Officer                             AFTU1
Francis Ato Brown                     Sector Leader                                  AFTU1
Hyacinth D. Brown                     Senior Finance Officer                         LOAFC Disbursement
Pascale Helene Dubois                 Evaluation and Suspension Officer OES
Fook Chuan Eng                        Sr Financial Analyst                           SASDU
Wambui G. Gichuri                     Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.                    ETWWP
James N. Karuiru                      E T Consultant                                 AFTU1
Perla San Juan                        Sr Program Asst.                               AFTU1
Dahir Elmi Warsame                    Sr Procurement Spec.                           AFTPC
Moses Sabuni Wasike                   Sr Financial Management Specia OPCFM

Supervision/ICR
Solomon Alemu                         Sr Sanitary Engineer                           AFTU1
Henry Amena Amuguni                   Financial Management Spec.                     AFTFM
Devendra Bajgain                      Operations Officer                             AFTU1
Francis Ato Brown                     Sector Leader                                  AFTU1
James N. Karuiru                      E T Consultant                                 AFTU1
Midori Makino                         Sr Financial Analyst                           AFTU1
Smita Misra                           Senior Economist                               SASDU
Dahir Elmi Warsame                    Sr Procurement Spec.                           AFTPC
Moses Sabuni Wasike                   Sr Financial Management Spec.                  OPCFM

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                            No. of staff weeks                       USD Thousands (including
                                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY971                                                                                                 15.77
  FY98                                                                                                122.40
  FY99                                                                                                    0.00
  FY00                                                                                                  54.44
  FY01                                                                                                  45.35
  FY02                                                           9                                    200.34
  FY03                                                          17                                    102.52
Total:                                                          79                                    426.60




1
 The project under preparation in FY97 & FY 98 was a multi city project much different from the project eventually prepared.
However, the project ID was not changed.




                                                      31

Supervision/ICR
 FY03                       149.81
 FY04                       137.44
 FY05                 39    189.27
 FY06                 27     63.04
 FY07                 51      0.00
 FY08                 23      0.00
Total:               140    539.56




                   32

                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


1.      Below is the Executive Summary of the Nairobi Water Consumers Perception
Survey, April 2007. The complete report is in the files.


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


2.      The Water Consumer Perceptions Survey was commissioned by the Athi Water
Services Board (AWSB) in collaboration with Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company
(NWSC). The survey was carried out by PPD Consultants Limited in preparation for Nairobi
Water and Sewerage Institutional Restructuring Project (NWSIRP) Stakeholder Workshop of
May, 2007.

3.      The objective of the Survey was to carry out an assessment and provide feedback on
the level of consumer satisfaction with the water and sewerage services provided in Nairobi.
The survey covered all the five NWSC management zones, comprising of Northern, Southern,
Central, Western, and Eastern Regions.

Issues that were explored

4.      Many water and sewerage services issues were addressed on consumer information
and their perceptions. Among the issues covered were:

  i.  Awareness

5.      The specific awareness dimensions to be measured were:

             · Customer awareness on the water sector reforms;

             · Role of AWSB as well as NWSC in the water sector reform process; and

             · Customer's perception of water sector reforms.

 ii.  Product Quality

6.      The study wanted to establish customer's perceptions on the quality of water provided
by NWSC. The determinants of quality included cleanliness, texture, smell and taste of the
water.

iii.  Consistency

7.      How regular NWSC provides the product to its customers.

iv.   Service Quality

8.      How NWSC provides the said product to its customers

 v.   Price/Value

9.      The perceived costs of service provided.

vi.   Responsiveness

10.     How NWSC responds in case of failure/call.

vii.  Communication

11.     How NWSC communicates with its customers.




                                            33

viii.   Competence

 12.       How NWSC staff responds to customer needs.

 ix.    Courtesy

 13.       How staff handles its customer.

  x.    Accessibility

      · How NWSC avails itself to its customers while delivering services; and

      · Rating of infrastructural requirements.


 The Sampling Frame

 14.       The sample for the survey was based on the master accounts register of NWSC
 consumers. The accounts were categorized into domestic, commercial, corporate, public
 institutions, and informal settlements.

 15.       A random sample of 563 water accounts was selected. A total of 563 respondents
 drawn from the five zones were interviewed. The five customer segments were represented as
 illustrated in the table below.


                                Northern    Southern     Central     Eastern     Western
                    TOTAL
                                 Region      Region      Region      Region      Region

   Domestic           55%         56%          51%         49%         62%         55%

   Public

   Institutions       10%         11%          11%         12%          8%         11%

   Corporate          10%         13%          12%         17%          5%          9%

   Commercial         11%          9%          12%         11%         10%         13%

   Informal

   settlement         13%         11%          13%         10%         16%         11%


 Awareness about Reforms in the Water Sector

 16.       Reforms in the water sector were generally known to the consumers of water and
 sewerage services in Nairobi. The survey established that the reforms in the water sector had
 also brought about positive changes. The role of AWSB and NWSC were also perceived as
 being beneficial by water and sewerage customers.

 17.       The people of Nairobi expressed satisfaction with the quality of the water supplied to
 them as well as the service they receive from staff of NWSC. They said that, the water was
 now: clean and safe for drinking; is consistent; has adequate pressure; billing is regular; and
 that NWSC had established more payment points hence the reduction in size of queues.
 A major concern was the water billing system. Although it was appreciated as having been
 improved, bills were largely perceived as containing estimates and not actual readings. A
 large proportion of the respondents considered the system to be full of errors and called for




                                            34

improvement in the reading of meters, preparation and release of bills. Bills were received
monthly by many of the consumers. This is an improvement on the part of NWSC since it's
convenient for customers to pay non cumulative bills.

18.      In light of the above, water consumers called for improvement in the manner the
service was rendered to ensure increased efficiency in terms of: issuance and reliability.

19.      The NWSC was also urged to make deliberate moves to increase public awareness on
the safety of Nairobi water and to introduce water reservoirs/browsers from which they can
sell water to consumers when there were shortages. This is because customers are likely to
trust NWSC more than other water vendors.

20.      Water consumers in Nairobi expressed the view that water was not expensive.

Sewerage Services

21.      About 79% of the consumers who had water accounts were connected to the
sewerage system. The others relied on septic tanks, while some were assumed to use pit
latrines or other methods of waste disposal. Respondents called for an expanded sewerage
coverage in order to eliminate the possibility of creating disease vulnerability among the
water and sewerage service users in Nairobi.

22.      Of those who were connected to the sewerage system it was noted, however, that
about 55% were satisfied with the available sewerage services. Those expressing
dissatisfaction mainly cited leakages and blockages of sewerage system.

Rating of the NWSC Services and Staff

23.      A majority of respondents expressed satisfaction with services offered by NWSC.
Respondents cited lack of follow ups to solve customer's problems. The company was urged
to take measures to close the small gap in its negative rating.

24.      An equally high positive rate was given to company employees for their good attitude
during delivery of services to consumers. Only a small percentage of respondents were
unhappy with the staff attitude towards service delivery to customers. It was again considered
that the company could close this gap with minimal effort.




                                             35

                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.       Below are the Executive Summaries of the Stakeholder Workshops held in December
2005 and the table of content of the second Stakeholder Workshop held in May 2007. The
complete reports are in the files.


Stakeholder Workshop (December 2005)

SUMMARY OF PROCEEDINGS

2.       The Athi Water Services Board jointly with The Nairobi City Water Services
Company organised a two-day stakeholders workshop from 5th to 6th December, 2005. The
Workshop which was held under the framework of the Nairobi Water and Sewerage
Institutional restructuring Project aimed at building a wide stakeholder support and consensus
for the water sector reforms. Other objectives of the workshop were to provide a forum for
stakeholder evaluation of the project's progress and to elicit views on the current management
framework for service delivery in Nairobi; to facilitate better stakeholder understanding of the
challenges faced in the provision of water and sewerage services; and to encourage and
strengthen public-private partnerships and investments in the water sector. It was hoped that
through these consultations an efficient and widely accepted long-term management solution
in the provision of water and sewerage services to residents of Nairobi, Kiambu, Thika,
Makueni, Machakos and Kajiado would develop. The participants to the workshop were
drawn from a cross-section of stakeholders which included water service providers,
Government and Local Government officials, Media, Donors and Consumers.

3.       During the first day of the workshop, the occasion was graced by the presence of His
Worship the Mayor of Nairobi Councilor Dick Wathika. Other key speakers included the
Permanent Secretary Ministry of Water and Irrigation Eng. Mahboub Maalim who opened the
workshop; the Chairman of AWSB, Mr Patrick Kinyori; the Chairman of NWSC, Mr.
Kabando wa Kabando; World Bank Country Director, Mr. Bruce Collins and the Chief
Executive Officers for both the AWSB and NWSC Eng. Lawrence Mwangi and Mr. F K
Mugo respectively.

4.       The first day activities focused on creating awareness of the existence of both AWSB
and NWSC. The activities included an exhibition by the Company of its key functions in the
delivery of water and sewerage services to Nairobi residents. These activities included
demonstration of water treatment, bulk metering and leakage detection. The Company also
held a billing clinic for its consumers. Alongside the exhibition, focused group discussions
were held to address in greater depth the issues that had been investigated in the consumer
perceptions survey.

5.       The second day of the workshop focused on the achievements made by AWSB and
NWSC and the challenges that lay ahead in their efforts to deliver water and sewerage
services under the framework of the NWSIRP. Presentations were made by the Chief
Executive Officer of AWSB and the Managing Director of NWSC. The day also saw the
presentation of the findings of the consumer perceptions survey conducted by ACEG on
behalf of the AWSB and NWSC. This was followed by a report of the FGDs and plenary
discussion of the presentations made.

6.       The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Water and Irrigation set the mood for the
workshop by observing that water was crucial for economic growth and consequently poverty
reduction in Kenya. He further stated that the government was fully committed to the reforms




                                             36

in the water sector and it was for that reason it formulated the Water Policy paper which
culminated into Water Act 2002. The government had also increased budgetary allocation for
the sector from Shs 1.96 billion in 2002 to Shs 9 billion in 2005/6 and facilitated the
necessary structures to carry out these reforms.

7.      The Managing Director of NWSC narrated the achievements made by the Company
in the short period it has been in existence. These were: improving the human capacity of its
personnel, giving consumers clean water, and improving the billing system and payments
arrangements. The consumer perceptions survey corroborated to a large extent the
presentations from the Company.

8.      The challenges faced by Company in delivering water services to residents of Nairobi
include: the rapid population growth and its implications for the water and sewerage services,
the billing system, inculcating business culture on its employees and changing consumer
perceptions on the quality of water. Areas for improvement include: expansion of the water
and sewerage services to reach the uncovered areas.

9.      Eng. Mwangi on behalf of AWSB stated that the Board had a major role to ensure
quality water supply to consumers and resources for investment in the water sector. He
observed that opportunities existed for both local and foreign investors in the sector. Since the
investments in the sector were lumpy, the way forward was to build partnerships between
public and private sector.

10.     The World Bank Representative thanked the government of Kenya for supporting the
Company in its endeavors. He expressed hope that the workshop becomes an annual event in
which stakeholders shall be enabled to play the oversight role for the project. He noted that
the Bank is extremely impressed by what has been achieved so far by the water company and
the government in actualizing the Water Act 2002. He congratulated Kenya for its exceptional
performance in implementing reforms.

11.     The Representative also observed that huge investment (Shs 70 billion) is required to
realize the company's objectives hence the need for partners to coordinate their efforts in
investment in this regard. He noted that there are many challenges involved in the project and
that the Bank was going to examine the feedback reports received and later meet the
Company to establish how it intends to proceed in addressing these challenges. He concluded
with optimism that in future, the financiers will be approaching the Company for partnership
and not the water company going to them seeking financial support.

12.     In closing the workshop, Dr. Nehemiah Nge'no, Permanent Secretary Ministry of
Trade and Industry observed that the forum was important particularly its focus on
improvement in the customer service and efficiency. He noted that the Economic Recovery
Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (ERS) proposed the adoption of a program
approach to the water sector management, with strong emphasis on ensuring viability and
accessibility of adequate water supply. This, he stated, requires comprehensive institutional
reforms in the water sector to facilitate water and sanitation programs. He also remarked that
the national water policy will succeed if the Water Services Boards demonstrate strong and
vibrant managerial leadership necessary for improved service delivery. The Boards must also
improve stakeholder engagement and participation in the sector. The water service providers
must be business like and market driven. He explained that this did not mean that the
Company should charge its customers market rates but that it should operate on business
principles of controlling of costs, maximizing revenue and be customer and environmentally
friendly.




                                             37

13.     In concluding his remarks Dr. Nge'no requested the Company to conduct its business
with utmost probity and efficiency since the Government was committed towards fighting
corruption and ensuring transparency in the delivery of public services. For this reason he
urged the Company to practice the highest level of ethics and accountability. The Company
should at all levels of its operations adopt the current best practices and principles of sound
corporate governance and accountability.




                                            38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                    Borrower's ICR




      NAIROBI WATER AND SEWERAGE
INSTITUTIONAL RESTUCTURING PROJECT
                        (NWSIRP)


             Project Completion Report




                            39

        Borrower's contribution to Implementation Completion Report (ICR)



   NAIROBI WATER AND SEWERAGE INFRASTRUCTURE RESTRUCTURING
                                            PROJECT

                                      GRANT No. H100-KE

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

          GOK/BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCY CONTRIBUTION


SECTION 1: PROJECT DATA
 1.1       Country                                         KENYA
 1.2       Project number:                                 P049618
 1.3       Project title:                                  Nairobi Water and Sewerage Institutional
                                                           Restructuring Project.
 1.4       Date of approval of the project:                September 2004
 1.5       Type of Activity                                Institutional Strengthening
 1.6       Implementing agency:                            Athi Water Services Board (AWSB)
                                                           Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company
                                                           (NWSC).
 1.7       Local executing agency/                         Ministry of Finance
           Financial intermediary:
 1.8       National coordinating agency:                   Ministry of Water
 1.9       Scheduled date of completion:                   30th June 2007
 1.10      Actual date of completion:                      31st December 2007
 1.11      Date of project completion report:
 1.12      Completion report done by:                      Athi Water Services Board (AWSB) and
                                                           Nairobi water and Sewerage Company
                                                           (NWSC)

Project Background


1.        The NWSIRP is a three year project funded by the International Development Agency
(IDA) with counterpart funds provided by the Government of Kenya. The project seeks to build a
strong governance, institutional and service delivery framework by providing support for the
implementation of the Water Act so as to enable efficient and sustainable delivery of water and
sewerage services to the population of Nairobi. The project seeks to support the
Operationalization and strengthening of new autonomous, service delivery and regulatory
utilities. This is to be achieved through implementation of activities in the three project
components. Activities implemented over the life of the project will assist in institutional
strengthening, service improvement and project communications, monitoring and evaluation.

2.        The project's three components are implemented by the Athi Water Services Board
(AWSB) and Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC). AWSB came into being
through enactment of the Water Act and is responsible for provision of Water services in Nairobi
City and the five surrounding districts of Kajiado, Kiambu Machakos, Makueni, and Thika.
Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company is the water service provider responsible for the provision
of water and sewerage services for Nairobi city. It 100% owned by the Nairobi City Council. It


                                               40

provides services previously provided by the Nairobi City Council's Water and Sewerage
Department.


3.      NWSIRP is focused mainly on institutional restructuring - setting up new institutions for
Nairobi, operationalizing and strengthening them to ensure they function properly. Successful
implementation o f this project will create sustainable service delivery institutions which could
lead to further World Bank support to the overall GOK program of sector reform and investment
consistent with the Water Act. Activities of NWSIRP are coordinated by the Ministry of Water
and Irrigation (MWI).


Project development objective and key indicators

4.      The development objective of the project is to build strong governance, institutional and
service delivery framework that will enable the efficient and sustainable delivery of water and
sewerage services to the population o f Nairobi.

5.      The project will support the creation and strengthening of new autonomous and ring-
fenced service provision utilities - with clear roles, responsibilities and contractual arrangements.

6.      The Notable outcome will be an institutional framework that is capable of delivering safe,
clean and affordable services to all strata of the Nairobi's population in accordance with
commercial and sustainable principles.

7.      The Progress of achieving the development objective will be monitored principally
through the improvement in operating sustainability o f the service delivery of AWSB and
Nairobi Water throughout the project implementation period.

8.      Project preparation started in 2004. The credit became effective in June 2004 and
implementation began in September of the same year. The implementation period was anticipated
to run for a period of 3 years up to 30th June 2007. There was an initial delay in commencing the
project as staff were being recruited. Through the ministry of Finance Athi Water Services Board
requested for a six month extension so as to facilitate disbursement and also prepare for the
follow on program. The World Bank approved the extension of the life of the grant to 31st
December 2007.

Summary of Project Components

9.      In order to implement the project to achieve the objective above, the Project was divided
into three major components, with a total project cost of US$16.8 million equivalent, of which
IDA financing totaled US$15.0 million (at the time of signing) in grant. The remaining US$1.8
million from direct Government contribution and internal revenue of the water and sewerage
Services operations.

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of New Service Delivery Framework
(About $6.1 million including contingencies).

10.     This component supported the Operationalization and strengthening of:

    (i)      A new autonomous asset holding entity - Athi Water Services Board (AWSB); and
    (ii)     A new autonomous and ring-fenced water and sewerage service Provision Company
             for Nairobi ­ Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC).



                                                41

11.     The new institutions were appropriately strengthened to ensure professional management
and commercial operations.

Component 2: Immediate Services Delivery Improvement Program (about US$7.0
Million including contingencies).

12.     This component supported selected activities aimed at strengthening the commercial,
financial and technical operations of NWSC. The focus was on strengthening the commercial
operation of NWSC's business centers. Some tangible service improvements to consumers were
realized and specific service improvement targets set for the new institutions for the duration of
the Project.

Component 3: Project M&E, Consultations and Communications, and Preparation of Follow-on
Program (about US$3.7 million including contingencies).

13.     This component supported monitoring of project activities, implementation of a
complementary communication program in support of the new institutional transformation in
services provision. In particular, the progress and interim results emanating from the Project are
communicated to the public and discussed, debated and feedback obtained. This component
supported the preparation of follow-on investment programs.


A. Objectives


14.     The project's primary objective which is to build strong governance, institutional and
service delivery framework that will enable the efficient and sustainable delivery of water and
sewerage services to the population of Nairobi City, is clear, realistic and highly relevant. The
Project's consistency with GOK policy and plans is satisfactory and ownership and commitment
have been obtained by directly supporting the GOK's implementation of sector structural reforms
outlined in the GOK's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the Economic Recovery Strategy for
Wealth and Employment Creation (ERSWEC), and the Water Act (2002).


B. Achievement of the Objectives


Performance of AWSB

15.     The overall assessment of AWSB's performance in implementing the NWSIRP since
inception is satisfactory. Project implementation was initially delayed by the time taken from
IDA's Board Approval to achieve Project Effectiveness (June to September 2005) and the time
taken to build project implementation capacity at AWSB and NWSC.

16.     Athi Water Services Board is fully established and has contracted 25 water service
providers in its area of jurisdiction. In the Financial 2005/ 2006 AWSB was rated 9th Countrywide
and 2nd in the services sectors by the inspectorate of state corporations. In 2007 AWSB was
accorded ISO 9001: 2000 certification which signified its compliance with worldwide standards
of quality management systems.

17.     The organization worked with increasing efficiency towards achievement of the project's
development goal and managed to maintain the Ratio of Operating expenditure divided by
operating Revenue to below 0.9 as per the development grant agreement.




                                                 42

Performance of NWSC

18.      The overall assessment of NWSC's performance in implementing the NWSIRP since
inception is considered satisfactory. Despite its teething organizational hurdles and legacy of past
poor performance, NWSC is beginning to establish itself in the minds of residents of Nairobi as a
reliable Water services provider. This is evidenced by a positive feedback report from a recent
independent consumer survey where 80% of respondents stated that there have been positive
improvements in service delivery over the past year.

  AWSB achievement of outputs by component
       Component                  Subcomponent                        Output               Rating

 Institutional                Support to                   Office Rehabilitation,        Satisfactory
 Strengthening of New         Operationalization and       Vehicles, Motor cycles        Satisfactory
 Service Delivery             Strengthening of the         Office Equipment,             Satisfactory
 framework                    Nairobi Water Services       Office Management Expenses    Satisfactory
                                                           Capacity Building             Satisfactory
                                                           Consultancy
                                                           Training (including           Satisfactory
                                                           workshops, courses and study
                                                           tours)
                              Support to Activities of     Consumer and social           Satisfactory
                              the Water Services           Protection
                              Regulatory Board -           Regulatory Design & Review    Satisfactory
                              WSRB (about                  Advisory Services
 Immediate Service            Improvements in              Accounting & Financial Mgt    Satisfactory
 Delivery Improvement         Financial Operations         Software
 Program                                                   Asset Valuation               Satisfactory
 Project M&E,                 Project Monitoring and       Statutory Financial Audit     Satisfactory
 Consultations and            Evaluation
 Communications and                                        Technical & Financial Audit   Satisfactory
 preparation of Follow-on                                  Services
 program                                                   Mid Term review               Satisfactory
                              Stakeholder Consultation     Stakeholder consultation and  Satisfactory
                              and Communication            communication
                              Campaign                     campaign
                                                           Stakeholder consultation      Satisfactory
                                                           review
                              Technical Preparation for    Service demand Forecast       Satisfactory
                              Follow on program            Study to Review Private       Satisfactory
                              Nairobi C.I.P                Sector Investment Options in
                                                           Small Scale Infrastructure
                                                           Institutional and Legal       Satisfactory
                                                           Framework Review for
                                                           AWSB, including the drafting
                                                           of SPAs
                                                           Training consultant for       Satisfactory
                                                           CWSB
                                                           Preparation of MIS Strategy   Satisfactory
                                                           Preparation of the follow-on  Satisfactory
                                                           WSS Program
                                                           Integration of Asset          Satisfactory
                                                           management, Financial &
                                                           GIS system
                                                           Operationalization of the     Satisfactory
                                                           Procurement Act



                                               43

                                                       Environmental & Social        Satisfactory
                                                       Economic Management
                                                       Framework & Resettlement
                                                       Policy Framework
                                                       Consultancy
                                                       Institutional Strengthening - Satisfactory
                                                       NWSC Billing Support
                                                       Transformative Leadership     Satisfactory
                                                       and Change Management
                                                       Communications Consultant     Satisfactory
                                                       for follow-on-program
                                                       Feasibility Study,            Satisfactory
                                                       Environmental and Social
                                                       Assessment and Preparation
                                                       of Tender Documents
                                                       Institutional Risk            Satisfactory
                                                       management framework
                                                       Financial management          Satisfactory
                                                       extension
                                                       Infrastructure & Procurement  Satisfactory
                                                       support



C. Major factors affecting the project implementation


     i. Government control related factors

       ·   Tax Exemption letters: The project being World Bank funded was tax exempt.
           Initially the processing of the tax exemption letters was taking too long, leading to
           an overall delay in the whole process.

       ·   Flow of funds: The project was based on reimbursement basis. Being a statement of
           expenditure (SOE), the process of the funds flow would almost delay for 5 months
           before the funds are released to the implementing agencies operational account. This
           led to cash flow problem where invoices had to be held for a longer period until the
           funds were available.

       ·   Processing of documents by Ministry of water and irrigation and Ministry of
           finance: Initially processing of documents would take a long time in the Ministry of
           Water and Ministry of finance but this improved at the completion of the project;
           however capacity needs to be built in the external resources department.

    ii. Implementing agency related factors-NCWSC and AWSB


D. Project sustainability


19.    The government has instituted various measures to ensure that the project is sustained.
       These measures are as follows: -

            Implementation of Nairobi Water and Sewerage Emergency infrastructure Program
            (NWSEPIP).
            Formation of Water and Sewerage utilities in AWSBs area of jurisdiction.
            Preparation of the water and sanitation improvement project (WaSSIP) funded by
            IDA which will involve rehabilitation and expansion of existing water and waste

                                            44

                water facilities in AWSB,CWSB and LVNWSB and also institutional
                strengthening of Water service providers, Water appeals board and Water
                regulatory board.


E. World Bank's performance


World Bank's performance in project implementation

20.      The Bank's performance was commendable. The Bank project team facilitated the timely
implementation of the project from inception to completion. Required clearances under the
Development grant Agreement were given without undue delays. The team also offered advice on
quality control of documents, disbursement and other important aspects. The Banks consistent
project review missions and quick response to implementing agencies queries contributed to
successful implementation of the project.


F. Borrower's performance


       i.     Government of Kenya (GOK)

         The Government's overall performance was satisfactory. The necessary counterpart funds,
         office space and staff were adequately provided. The performance of the Recipient is
         satisfactory. In particular, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation, Ministry of Finance and
         the City Council of Nairobi have been instrumental in ensuring the consistency of project
         design with the Government policies and the laws. The Government has consistently
         assisted in the project implementation in particular in helping to ensure the
         Operationalization of the new governance framework in AWSB and NWSC. The
         government was fully committed to the full implementation the Water Act (2002).There
         have, however, been delays in disbursement which in part stemmed from the delays
                    · in the issuance of tax exemption letters, and
                    · In the processing of withdrawal applications.

      ii.     AWSB

         The overall assessment of AWSB's performance in implementing the NWSIRP since
         inception is satisfactory. Project implementation was initially delayed by the time taken
         from IDA Board Approval to achieve Project Effectiveness (June to September 2005) and
         the time taken to build project implementation capacity at AWSB and NWSC.. The
         organization is working with increasing efficiency towards achievement of the project's
         development goal. AWSB is fully operational and has formed 26 water service
         companies in its area of jurisdiction.
         Strong corporate governance principles have adopted in running the affairs of the AWSB
         and to enhance quality in delivery of services, the board was awarded the ISO 9001:2000
         certification a highly coveted and valued recognition that confirms that the board has
         successfully implemented and complied with the quality management system in
         accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).


     iii.     NWSC

         The overall assessment of NWSC's performance in implementing the NWSIRP since
         inception is considered satisfactory. Despite its teething organizational hurdles and
         legacy of past poor performance, NWSC is beginning to establish itself in the minds of
         residents of Nairobi as a reliable service provider. NWSC has successfully executed most
         Project activities despite delays in the issuance of tax exemption letters from the Ministry
         of Finance. The volume of water billed increased 75 million m3 to 99 million m3 during

                                                 45

                  the project period while the non revenue water decreased from 50% to 41% and is
                  expected to decrease further with the implementation of the follow on capital investment
                  program.

         G. Assessment of outcome


Outcome           Baseline    Year 1:July 2004-June 2005       Year 2:July 2005-June 2006    Year 3:July 2006-June 2007
Indicators
                              Planned     Actual     Variance  Planned   Actual    Variance  Planned   Actual    Variance


Volume of            75          75         72          -3        83        79        -4        91        99
water Sold         Million     Million    Million     Million  Million   Million    Million  Million   Million   8 Million

                     m3          m3         m3         m3        m3         m3        m3       m3         m3        m3


Results Indicators for each
component


Component One:
Ratio of Operating expenditure divided by operating Revenue

AWSB              N/A         < 0.9          0.74         0.16 < 0.9         0.85       0.05 < 0.9          0.8        0.1
NWSC              N/A         < 0.9          0.98        -0.08 < 0.9         0.83       0.07 < 0.9         0.92      -0.02
Component
two:
Billing
Efficiency %        100%        100%       100%        0%       100%       100%       0%      100%      100%        0%

Average
lateness in           6       4Months        0         Nil     2Months      0         Nil       0         0         Nil
billing            Months                 Months                         Months              Months    Months

Collection             65%         65%                             65%      52%                  70%      74%
efficiency
increase in %
UFW %                  50%         50%       46%                   45%      37%                  39%      41%

Component
three:

Annual            None        1 Report                         1Report   1                   1 Report  1
workshop                                                                 Report                        Report
report on
stakeholder
consensus on
way forward

         H. Future operations

         21.      The government is working on the implementation of the follow on capital investment
         project whose aim is to build on the success of the Nairobi water and sewerage infrastructure
         restructuring project (NWSIRP).


         I. Lessons learned

                  Flow of Funds:
             The project was utilizing the reimbursement system and the flow of funds took a long period
             to get to the implementing agencies bank account. This led to the implementing agencies
             experiencing cash flow problems.




                                                             46

    Adoption of report based system will lead to faster implementation of the project and
    satisfaction of suppliers.

    Greater coordination between the implementing agencies, World Bank staff, parent ministry
    and ministry of Finance is critical for successful implementation of the projects.

        Special Accounts:
    Reconciliation of the special account was made difficult by the lack of bank statements for
    the special account. Location of the special account inshore will enable faster reconciliation
    and reporting for the projects.

        Usage of country systems:
    The project utilized the organizations systems and procedures. This eliminated the need for
    project management units (PMU). This has led to building of capacity in the institutions on
    the area of managing projects and enhancing accountability since it's possible to assign
    responsibility and project management becomes part normal operations of the business. This
    ensures sustainability of the projects.

        Document preparation:
    Where Terms of reference, Request for Proposals (RFPs) as and other tender documents were
    prepared in time and accurately the project was always on time.
    The assistance provided by the World Bank staff especially continuous training in the areas
    of procurement, document preparation and disbursement contributed to the smooth flow of
    the project.

        Documents flow:
    Initially flow of documents from the implementing agency (AWSB and NWSC) to the
    Ministry of Water and Irrigation and finally to the Ministry of Finance was taking too long
    leading to delays in disbursement.
    Coordination efforts between Ministry of Water, Ministry of finance, AWSB, NWSC and the
    World Bank led to solving the problems that caused delay in the flow of documents.

         Communication and reporting:
    The project had proper communication mechanisms which were done through World Bank
    mission reviews, stakeholder perception surveys, project review meetings and stakeholder
    workshops. Two way communication and feedback mechanism is important in project
    management.
    Independent customer satisfaction surveys and review missions helped to keep the project on
    track.

J. Disbursement Status:

22.     The project disbursement came to an end on 30th April 2008 and achieved a disbursement
rate of 99.30%.




                                               47

                    Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

-  Draft Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
-  Workshop Report on Second Stakeholder Workshop on Nairobi Water and Sewerage
   Institutional Restructuring Project, May 3 -4, 2007
-  Workshop Report on Second Stakeholder Workshop on Nairobi Water and Sewerage
   Institutional Restructuring Project, December 2005
-  Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company Limited - A Survey April - May 2005,
   Transparency International Kenya, February 2006




                                         48

