Report No. PID8083
Project Name                      Tanzania-Privatization & Private Sector...
Development
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Private Sector
Project ID                        TZPE49838
Borrower                          Government of Tanzania
Implementing Agencies             Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
Second Floor, Sukari House
Sokoine Drive/Ohio Street
P.O. Box 9252, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact: Mr. J.C. Rubambe, Executive Chairman
Tel. (255-51) 115483, 116268, 34296
Fax. (255-51) 39482, 33406
The Loans & Advances Realization Trust
Samora Avenue, P.O. Box 20555
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Tel (255-51) 131091/131464
Fax (255-51) 114097
Date this PID prepared            February 26, 1999
Projected Appraisal date          May 1999
Projected Board date              September 1999
Country and sector background:
In the early 1980s, with a change of President and following a period of
sharp economic decline, Tanzania shifted course away from the socialist
agenda pursued since 1967 towards a more market-oriented economy. In 1986,
the Government embarked on its first comprehensive adjustment program. One
of the central elements of the Government's reform agenda has been a
privatization program.
During 1994-1998, Tanzania divested about 270 public enterprises (PEs). These
included mainly small-medium PEs in tradable goods sectors, but also a number
of large PEs (e.g., brewery, cigarette factory). In some cases, such as
leather, privatization of PEs has opened up markets for private entrepreneurs
and improved output and efficiency. There have, however, also been cases in
some sectors where delays in divestiture have contributed to deterioration of
fixed assets, and created uncertainty which has limited private investment.
In late 1996 the Government of Tanzania (GOT) decided to expand the
privatization program to divest all major utility and infrastructure PEs
(water, telecommunications, ports, railways, electricity) banking,
agriculture and mining PEs. The GOT's stated aim is to divest all of these
enterprises by the end of 2000. However, in practice, it is expected that
divestiture of the remaining 230 PEs will take longer, and some (notably in
infrastructure) will be opened to private investment in stages over the
medium to long term.



Project objectives
The project will support implementation of Tanzania's public enterprise
(PE) privatization program. Specific objectives are to : (1) continue
institutional support and capacity building through the Parastatal Sector
Reform Commission (PSRC), for implementation of PE divestitures - including
major PEs in public utilities and infrastructure; and strengthen the
efficiency and transparency of the privatization program, through
streamlining of government approval of divestitures, greater delegation of
implementation to PSRC, and adoption of clear, consistent overall policies
for the treatment of PE debt and for the retrenchment of PE employees; (2)
continue support for liquidation of non-performing assets of the state-owned
banks by the Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART), including for
implementation of new methods to contract out marketing of assets
internationally; and preparation and implementation of the eventual move of
LART to the private sector and the creation of a competitive market of Non-
Performing Asset (NPA) collection services for the banking system; (3)
establish an institutional framework for regulation of infrastructure and
public utilities, including a program of institutional development, public
education and regulatory capacity building; (4) support creation of a
government-private sector dialog mechanism to promote removal of key
regulatory and business environment bottlenecks to expansion of private and
foreign direct investment (FDI), especially for utilities and infrastructure,
and the improvement of Tanzania's image as a destination for FDI.
Project description
Support to Privatization Program - Technical Assistance and Advisory Services
for Preparation and Execution of PE Divestiture Transactions.
Support for LART's Program of Debt Collection for Non-Performing Assets of
Banks - Technical Assistance and Advisory Services for Receivership and
Liquidation Activities; and Support for LART's Medium Term Conversion to a
Private Debt Collection Agency
Completion of LART's Program for Debt Collection of State-owned Banks
Support for LART Conversion into a Private Debt Collection Company, and of
LART Tribunal's Transformation into a Commercial Court, as part of a Market-
based Approach to Strengthening the Debt Collection Market for Banks
Design and Implementation of Institutional Framework for Infrastructure and
Utilities Regulation
Business Environment Reform Design - Government/Private Sector Consultative
Mechanism
Project financing
Component                                Indicative Costs (US$M)
Privatization Support                    25.36
Debt Collection for Banks (LART)         3.86
Utilities Regulatory Framework           12.24
Business Environment Improvement         1.22
42.68
-2 -



Project implementation
Implementation Period: Five years, 2000 to 2004
Executing Agencies: Given the project framework there will be two executing
agencies initially; a third - and potentially a fourth - will be established
in the first year of the project:
(a)-PSRC - The privatization component of the project will be the
responsibility of the PSRC. The PSRC has about 16 professional level staff,
including accountants. Decisions within the PSRC are taken by the Commission
(Board) which is headed by the PSRC Chairman (Managing Director). The PSRC
reports to the Ministry of Planning but, as a Presidential Commission, it
also has direct access to Cabinet and the President when necessary.
(b)-LART - The liquidation/ NPA collection component of the project will
be the responsibility of LART which is composed of 20 professional staff
including three accountants. LART management answers to its board of
directors and is ultimately responsible to the Ministry of Finance which,
under the LART Act, is the ultimate authority over LART.
(c)-Regulatory Agency(ies) -During the first year of implementation of
the proposed Project, the final decision on the number and format of the
regulatory agencies will be taken by GOT.
(d)-Government/private sector consultative mechanism: The
organizational set-up for this will be finalized during the first year of the
proposed Project's implementation.
Once the agencies under (c) and (d) above are established and staffed with
qualified professional staff, including accountants, they will assume
executing agency status and manage their own funds from the Bank. Until such
time, however, disbursement for the regulatory and business environment
components would be managed by the PSRC.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and auditing arrangements: The project
records and accounts will be audited annually by a private accounting firm
acceptable to IDA based on financial and accounting systems satisfactory to
IDA. The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within four months of
the end of each fiscal year.
Project records and accounts under the Privatization component, excluding
those which pertain to activities to be carried out by LART, will be
maintained and managed by PSRC. LART will be responsible for its own
accounting of project funds. Since both PSRC and LART have been associated
with the accounting implementation of the previous project under Credit 2507-
TA, both agencies have sufficient experience and capability to manage their
own project accounts. As such, PSRC and LART shall be individually
responsible for ensuring compliance with IDA accounting and auditing
requirements as stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
The Private Sector Development and Regulatory components will be implemented
by agencies to be identified and agreed with GOT during Project appraisal.
Agreement will also be sought from GOT to appoint accountants for these
agencies with well defined terms of reference satisfactory to IDA as soon as
- 3-



practicable, once these executing agencies have been established.
Appropriate training will be organized by IDA to enable the newly appointed
accountants to familiarize themselves with relevant accounting and auditing
reporting requirements including IDA disbursement procedures.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: (a) Quarterly progress reports,
established on the basis of project implementation manual; (b) Bank's
supervision missions and project mid-term review; (c) Government will
transmit to IDA a completion report, within six months of credit closing.
Project sustainability
The Project entails significant risks with respect to policy implementation
and capacity. While GOT is now generally committed to privatization of major
PEs (notably in infrastructure and utilities), and to a reduced role for the
state in the economy, the transition toward private sector-led, market-based
growth is still at an early stage. President Mkapa is personally providing
strong leadership to accelerate the pace of change, but within the ruling
political party (the CCM) there seems only modest evidence of consensus on
the current reform efforts.
The planned divestitures of major infrastructure and utility PEs over the
next 3-4 years involve significant policy and regulatory issues of a nature
which is unfamiliar to Tanzania, and for which technical and managerial
capacity is very limited.
The risks of wavering government commitment to an efficient and transparent
divestiture process, undermined by undue influence of powerful vested
interests, must be considered as significant.
There is a high risk that inadequate government commitment to necessary
reforms (aimed at freeing up markets, increasing competition and removing
bureaucratic controls), combined with inadequate governance and corrupt
practices, may constrain private, including foreign, investment.
Risks of a more focused and technical nature are that lack of consistent
policies with respect to PE retrenchment and treatment of PE debt could
undermine the financial and fiscal sustainability of the privatization
program.
These risks are to be addressed to the extent possible principally through
the provision of considerable technical assistance aimed at increasing
understanding within government, and more generally, of the implications of
the various policy options and by encouraging the stronger participation of
business interest groups in the policy debate concerning business policy.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The principal lesson learned from the privatization program conducted over
1994-1998 can be summarized as a need to better define the privatization
process and the roles of the various institutions and agencies involved
(PSRC, line ministries, cabinet, etc.) to ensure a smooth, transparent
process. This is particularly important as experience has shown that the
lack of a clearly delineated process with clear areas of responsibility has
led to some confusion, a lack of coordination, and, in some cases, a lack of
transparency. The lessons can be broken down into constituent elements,
including:
The need to increase both delegation of authority to PSRC and its advisors
but at the same time increase accountability through periodic independent
process audits.
-4-



The need to increase technical capacity of the program through contracting
out to experienced consultants (particularly for large, infrastructure
related firms).
The need to better evaluate, plan and obtain agreement on consistent overall
approaches to such problems as (a) retrenchment policy and implementation,
and (b) the handling of enterprise debt.
The need for better communication with stakeholders (including the general
public) over the policies, the program and the use of the proceeds.
In addition to these lessons from previous projects in Tanzania, lessons from
privatization programs in the region and around the world, particularly on
the importance of regulatory frameworks for privatized infrastructure,
indicate :
the necessity of a regulatory framework for infrastructure and utility
companies that is clearly spelled out and credibly committed to by the
government in order to attract sufficient participants to the process and to
ensure effective competition.
the importance of ensuring that the regulatory regime is feasible in the
Tanzanian context (i.e. limited discretion in the initial stages), credible
for potential investors (supported by appropriate contractual arrangements)
and sustainable over the longer term (adequate attention paid to all relevant
stakeholders' incentives). This will require that GOT effectively put into
place mechanisms which reinforce the government's commitment to treat
investors fairly and reduce the ability of the concerned parties (including
future governments) to unilaterally undo commitments.
the significant benefits resulting from effective, mutually agreed,
government-private sector consultative mechanisms for enabling a dialog on
business environment reforms to yield practical and sustainable policy
change, provided that both sides are committed to the process - as well as
the utility of donor-supported technical assistance to help facilitate it.
Environmental Assessment Category Rating: C
Project benefits
The Bank will be able to provide vitally needed assistance and technical
support for key elements of the Government's adjustment program. In
particular, through IDA financing and Bank technical support, the project
will enable the Government to have access to high quality advisors for both
the privatization of large sections of its economy and the necessary
regulatory framework so that the country can maximize the economic gains from
private sector participation.
The Bank is an important supporter of the client's efforts to increase
transparency and public accountability.
Tanzania should benefit from the provision of objective, client-oriented
technical advice and support in the areas of privatization, utility
regulation and business environment reforms, which the Bank is particularly
well-placed to provide as a multilateral institution, with considerable
- 5 -



experience globally and in Africa in providing such assistance.
Date the initial PID prepared: February 26, 1999
The information contained in this PID is based on the findings of the IDA
team which pre-appraised this project in May of 1998.
Contact Points:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Paul Ballard
Task Manager
(202) 473-4285
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 27, 1999.
- 6 -



