Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19119-TA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMNT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.3 MILLION
(US$45.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION & PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 15, 1999
Private Sector Development
Tanzania and, Uganda Country Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = TSH
TSH = US$.00130
US$1.00 = TSH775
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASMP          Agricultural Sector Management Project
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCM           Chama Cha Mapunduzi (Tanzania's Major/Ruling Political Party)
CSD           Civil Service Department
CTI           Confederation of Tanzania Industry
DAWASA        Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage Authority
DFID          (United Kingdom) Department for Intemational Development
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GOT           Government of Tanzania
LART          Loans and Advances Realisation Trust
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MOI           Ministry of Industry and Trade
NBC           National Bank of Commerce
NPA           Non-Performing Asset
PaPF          Parastatal Provident Fund
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
PPRP          Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project
PSAC          Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSRC          Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
RRP           Railways Restructuring Project
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
TA            Technical Assistance
TANESCO    Tanzania Electricity Supply Company
TCCIA         Tanzania Chamnber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture
TCFB          Tanzania Commercial Freight Board
TRP           Telecommunications Restructuring Project
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USRP          Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project
Vice President: Callisto Madavo/Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director: James Adams
Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba! Alan Gelb
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Paul Ballard



Tanzania
Privatization & Private Sector Development
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective  ................................................................                                                                               3
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .............................    3
B. Strategic                                                                                                                                                                     3
Context.
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..............................................    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...................................................                                                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........                                                                 .................         9
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................                                                                         . . 1IL
1. Project                                                                                                                                                             ill
components. ................................................................................
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................   I 1
3. Benefits and target population ................................................................                                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ......... .                                             .....................................    13
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                                           15
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................................   15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........   16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ............................................   17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...............                                                             ...........................    18
5. Value added of Bank support in this                                                                                                                                  1'9
project....................................................
E. Summary Project Analysis .                                           ................................................................   19
1. Economic ................................................................  19
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                                          20
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                                          20
4.                                                                                                                                                                      21
Institutional. .........................................................................................
5.                                                                                                                                                                     23
Social................................................................................................
6. Environment assessment .............................................................                                                                                25
7. Participatory                                                                                                                                                       25
approach.
F. Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                                   26
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                                                     26
2. Critical risks ................................................................                                                                                     28



3. Possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                               28
G. Main Loan Conditions ..................................................................                                           29
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................................................................                                  29
2. Other ..................................................................                                                      29
H. Readiness for Implementation ..................................................................                                    31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................................                                  31
Annexes:
Annex 1.                                  Project Design Summary
Annex 2..                                  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.                                  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.                                   Financial Summary
Annex 5.                                  Financial Management Assessment
Annex 6.                                  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7.                                   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.                                  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.                                   Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.                                 Country at a Glance
MAP



Tanzania
Privatization & Private Sector Development
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Tanzania Country Department
Date: November 15, 1999                             Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Paul Ballard
Country Manager/Director: James Adams               Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba/Alan Gelb/
Project ID: 49839      Sector: Private Sector       Program Objective Category: Privatization
Lending Instrument: SIL/TAS                         Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [xl No
Project Financing Data               [  Loan       [X] Credit      [1 Guarantee       I] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 45.9
Proposed terms:                        [x]  Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [    Standard Variable  [x] Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Foreign              Local            Total
Cofinanciers                          5.27               0.88              6.116
Government                            1.81               22.94            24.75
IDA                               20.32              25.58             45.90
Total       27.41              49.40             76.81
Borrower: Government of Tanzania
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Parastatal Sector Reform Conmmission (PSRC); Loans & Advances Realization Trust (LART);
Regulatory Agency (ies) (future); Gov't.-Private Sector Consultative Body (future).
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   2Qoo    2001       2002      2003      2004       2005
Annual        6.27    12.17      9.23       9.55     6.57        2:11
Cumulative        6.27    18.44     27.66      37.22    43.79       45.90
For Guarantees:                                 [    Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile



Page 2
Financing available without guarantee?:              []
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 Years Expected effectiveness date: January 3, 2000 Expected closing date: September
30, 2004



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective:
The project will support implementation of Tanzania's private sector development
strategy, notably through its public enterprise (PE) privatization program, banking
restructuring, and infrastructure and utilities' regulation, which are aimed at improving
economic efficiency through expanded private investment and production in the economy
and reduced drain upon scarce fiscal resources.
Specific objectives are to: (1) continue institutional support and capacity building through
the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC), for implementation of PE divestitures -
including major PE's in public utilities and infrastructure; and strengthen the efficiency
and transparency of the privatization program, through streamlining of government
approval of divestitures, greater delegation of implementation to PSRC, and adoption of
clear, consistent overall policies for the treatment of PE debt and for the retrenchment of
PE employees; (2) continue support for liquidation of non-performing assets of the state-
owned banks by the Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART), including for
implementation of new methods to contract out marketing of assets intemationally; and
preparation and implementation of the eventual move of LART to the private sector and
the creation of a competitive market for Non-Performing Asset (NPA) collection services
for the banking system; (3) establish an institutional framework for regulation of
infrastructure and utilities , including a program of institutional development, public
education and regulatory capacity building; (4) support creation of a government-private
sector dialog mechanism to promote removal of key regulatory and business environment
bottlenecks to expansion of private and foreign direct investment (FDI), especially for
utilities and infrastructure, and the improvement of Tanzania's image as a destination for
FDI. {Performance indicators for these objectives set out in Annex 1
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1):
GAS document number: 16554-TA   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 20, 1997
The project will contribute to meeting the CAS objective of enhancing economic efficiency
and the quality of services by divesting remaining parastatals on an accelerated schedule,
by  supporting  effective  infrastructure/utilies'  regulation,  and  private  sector
competitiveness. This would include (a) divestiture of most major public utilities and
transport infrastructure PE's; (b) promotion of competition wherever feasible, such as in
port services and telecommunications, and (c) fostering of private investment and
operation in these sectors.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A. Privatization Program:   Over the 1994-1998 period, Tanzania divested
about 150 of the 385 PE's initially held. These included mainly small-medium PE's in
tradable goods sectors, but also a number of large PE's (brewery, cigarette factory, etc.).In
some cases, e.g., leather, privatization of PE's has opened up markets for private
entrepreneurs and improved output and efficiency. Notwithstanding this, delays in
divestiture of PE's have contributed in a number of cases to deterioration of fixed assets,



Page 4
and created uncertainties limiting private investment in certain sectors. In late 1996 the
Government of Tanzania (GOT) took the decision to expand the privatization program to
divest all major utility  and  infrastructure  PEs    (ports, railways, electricity,
telecommunications, etc.) banking, agriculture and mining PE's . The GOT's stated aim is
to divest all of these enterprises, as far as possible, by 2000. However, in practice, it is
expected that divestiture of the remaining 230 PE's will take longer, and some (notably in
infrastructure) will be opened to private investment in stages over the medium to long
term.
The GOT now wishes to accelerate implementation of its privatization program to
reap the benefits of greater efficiency and more dynamic private investment and economic
growth, Several issues need to be addressed to achieve this: a) Despite considerable
progress by PSRC, the technical capacity to carry out the legal and regulatory
preparations necessary as well as to prepare and execute these divestitures is still limited,
particularly for the more complex privatizations in infrastructure and utilities. b) The
Govermment approval process for individual PE divestitures has, in the past, been
cumbersome, inefficient and, on occasion, less than fully transparent and needs to be
clarified and streamlined to facilitate these major transactions. c) The internal procedures
of PSRC need to be simplified, streamlined and reinforced so as to ensure that they are
clear to all stakeholders (Government., civil society and potential bidders) and can be
easily followed and regularly audited. d) Past experience has shown that there is a need to
develop consistent policies for handling PE employee retrenchment, and PE debt issues. e)
The legislation on insolvency and bankruptcy need to be revised and updated, as part of the
GOT's ongoing business law reform program, to facilitate inter alia liquidation of
unviable PEs.
(a) Privatization Processes: The GOT and PSRC, with Bank staff technical
support, have reviewed the processes of government approval, and of preparation and
execution of divestitures in an effort to streamline them, while ensuring an effective
handling of key sector strategy, policy and political issues early on:
(1)    Government Approval Process: The  process  of Government
approval has tended to be long, and subject to multiple reviews and revisions. To
simplify and streamline the system  in future, to expedite transactions, it is
proposed that the privatization process should more clearly separate the policy and
political aspects, which are the prerogative of Government, from the preparation
and execution of transactions, which are technical functions better delegated to
professionals  in  the  privatization  agency  under conditions  of   public
accountability. In line with this, the Government will focus on: ( i) setting the key
parameters of sector policy and divestiture strategy for large, economically critical
enterprises (utilities, infrastructure and financial sector); (ii) approving clear
guidelines for transaction procedures.
(2)    PSRC  Divestiture  Procedures:   PSRC's procedures for
divestiture transactions have entailed the use of multiple - and at times subjective -
criteria in the evaluation of bidders and the awarding of sales. This has led to
extended periods of consultations within the Government and lengthy negotiations
with potential investors, before transactions could be completed. The process has
been time-consuming and less than fully transparent to all participants. In an
effort to improve the speed and transparency of future transactions, therefore, it is



Page 5
has been agreed that PSRC will modify its operating procedures:
(a) PSRC will implement transactions through contracting them out to
competitively recruited investment advisors, remunerated in part based
upon success fees. This will be true both for the large transactions
(utility, infrastructure and financial sector) as well as, whenever
appropriate, smaller enterprises, which will be batched, wherever possible,
and contracted out to advisors; (b) Where assurance of bidders' technical
capacity and adherence to technical requirements and to government's
policy matters are needed, particularly for large PE's this will be achieved
through pre-qualification, with review of business plans through requiring
investors to respond to a common set of investrnent and policy criteria.
On this basis, final selection of the winning bidder would be based upon a
competitive price tender alone; (c) Public accountability could be
achieved through public opening of bids which would be broadcast on
radio and TV, and public announcement of winning bidders, which would
be politically approved rapidly by Cabinet. This would be coupled with
periodic process audits.
(b)   Public Enterprise Labor Retrenchment Policy:  The current
system of public enterprise retrenchment payments is ad hoc and has led to widely
varying retrenchment payments across PE's which do not reflect economic and
social costs. In principle, GOT policy has been to limit retrenchment payments to
statutory severance allowances. In practice, however, actual payments have
varied widely. At one end of the spectrum, retrenchees in liquidated companies
are paid severance of about US$6 equivalent (T.Sh. 4000) based on an outdated
(1953) law. At the other end, larger PE's with liquidity and stronger unions have
paid far larger severance per employee substantially beyond the statutory
minimum including an ex gratia payment and commuted pension allowance.
These have ranged from $8,000 to $14,000 equivalent. This disparity has led to
social unrest and resistance by some labor unions (and some parliamentarians) to
the retrenchment which is needed for the restructuring and privatization of many
public enterprises. Meanwhile, for the larger PE's in infrastructure and utilities to
be privatized over the next few years, the cost of retrenchment payments, if paid at
the upper end of the above spectrum, could result in a high - and potentially
unsustainable - fiscal cost (preliminary estimate : US$ 60 million equivalent for
seven PEs).
To address this issue the PSRC, in conjunction with the Ministries of Labor,
Planning and Finance, commissioned a study to review PE retrenchment policy and
recommend changes. The study indicates that current practices are ad hoc, inequitable,
and expensive (for example NBC paid an average of over US$ 13,500 per retrenchee). To
ameliorate this situation the study has proposed a clearer, more affordable and equitable
policy framework for determining retrenchment payments based on the economic costs of
retrenchment.
Essentially, under the proposed scheme,  the severance package paid to an
individual worker, above the statutory minimum, would be based on the probable losses
that the worker will face due to retrenchment. Those workers more likely to have difficulty



Page 6
finding other work (e.g. older, less well educated and possibly, female employees) would
be paid a proportionately larger sum than those who would likely find employment quite
rapidly. This policy would be relatively easy to implement during the preparation for
divestiture of any firm. Such a framework would allow Government to implement a policy
that is defensible to the public because of its clarity and equity.
Discussions have been held with various stakeholders including the Ministry of
Labor, Ministry of Finance, parastatal management and labor unions to discuss the study's
findings. At negotiations, the GOT agreed that guidelines for an overall consistent and
sustainable policy for PE employee retrenchment will be presented to Government for
consideration and decision by January 31, 2000.
(c) Public Enterprise Debt Policy: The lack of a clear policy on how various
types of debt will be dealt with in the context of the privatization program has led to ad
hoc treatment of parastatal debt. This, combined with past reluctance of the Ministry of
Finance to authorize debt write-offs (except for on-lent grants), has led to extensive delays
to privatization transactions and inconsistencies in treatment. In several instances these
delays have cost the government significant amounts.  In addition, the lack of a
streamlined, predictable debt treatment policy makes it more difficult to outsource
transaction work in a cost effective manner, since transaction advisors insist on contract
clauses which ensure that they are paid in the event of such delays.
GOT and PSRC commissioned consultants to assess the stock of parastatal debt
and to help formulate clear policy guidelines. This study defined the categories of
outstanding debt among PEs left to be privatized (including bilateral & multilateral debt,
government loans, bank debt, unpaid taxes, trade and suppliers credits, etc) which amounts
to approximately Tsh. 1,124 billion (US$ 1.68 billion at current exchange rates). While
records are not clear, it appears that up to 80% of the debt (about Tsh. 900 billion) may
carry government guarantees. It is likely, therefore that the Government will have to cover
this portion of the debt. (In many cases it is already making the payments.)
The study identified policy options for dealing with each kind of debt, focusing on
strategies that can help minimize the cost to the Treasury. These include a significant role
for liquidation (which requires other creditors to share the losses) but also using debt
clearance procedures between mutual debtors, sale of non-core assets and debt-equity
swaps. The procedures that will be used to assess the level of debt and determine the
preferred method to resolve each kind of debt are clearly laid out. Once adopted, these
procedures would become part of the operating guidelines given to the investment advisors
who would use them in their assessments of firms. (For more information on the analytical
work please see section E 3 below)
The draft study has been discussed with the relevant stakeholders in GOT (Ministry of
Finance and PSRC) and more widely in the Cabinet. At negotiations, GOT agreed that
guidelines for an overall policy framework for treatment of P.E. debt will be presented to
government for consideration and decision by January 31, 2000.
(d) Use of Proceeds: In the November 1997 Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for
1997/8-1999/2000, GOT confirmed its policy of allocating proceeds from privatization
transactions toward reduction of public sector debt and toward financing of retrenchment
costs for PE's. In light of its commitment to the transparency of the privatization program,



Page 7
the GOT agreed that the proceeds account, managed by PSRC and overseen by the
Ministry of Finance, will be audited annually by independent, internationally qualified
auditors and the audit results will be presented to Parliament in order to ensure full
accountability.
B. Debt Collection for Banks (LART): The Loans and Advances Realization Trust
(LART) was created in 1991 to expedite collection on non-performing assets (NPAs) of
the state-owned banks. It has been very effective in this capacity, realizing substantial
collections of NPA's. LART has had its mandate extended so that it can handle a larger
number of NPAs that will need collection over 1999-2001 linked with the restructuring and
privatization of the National Bank of Commerce (NBC). LART has proved successful due
to (i) its strong management and professional staff and its operational autonomy; and (ii)
its ability to ensure that collection cases are moved rapidly through a dedicated court, the
LART Tribunal, rather than suffering delays in the general court system. This, in turn,
has increased awareness among borrowers that they cannot expect lack of payment on
loans to be forgiven, and has started to improve repayment discipline in the banking
system.
The issue now is how to help institutionalize this change of attitude while ensuring durable
and equitable legal procedures through the establishment of permanent commercial courts
and by increasing the provision of collection services to all financial institutions within
Tanzania. The GOT is interested in exploring the possibility of achieving this by moving
LART into the private sector. The question is how to ensure an orderly transition from the
public to the private sector while ensuring effective handling of the important flow of work
resulting from the privatization of NBC and facilitating growth in private sector capacity
in the debt collection business.
C . Infrastructure and Utilities' Re2ulation: In 1996/7 the GOT adopted a policy of
attracting private operators and investors into major utility and transport sectors (telecoms,
power, water, ports and railways). Its implementation will call for the development of pro-
competitive regulatory frameworks and new institutional arrangements. GOT has twin
objectives in establishing a regulatory framework in the utility and transport sectors: On
the one hand, consumers are to be protected from misuse of monopoly power. On the
other, investors require clear and predictable rules with a reasonable prospect of a fair
return on their investments.
In developing individual sectoral regulatory frameworks, there are some common issues to
be addressed across the sectors. Economic regulation may be light-handed in areas where it
is  feasible  to  establish  competition,  such  as  electricity  generation,  most
teleconmmunications services, and large parts of the transport sectors. However, in areas
where monopolies are likely to persist, such as the telecommunications local loop,
electricity transmission and distribution, water distribution or certain commodities captive
to particular forms of transport, there may be a need for specified forms of economic
regulation to balance consumers' and investors' needs. The GOT faces a significant task
in developing regulatory arrangements across all the utility and transport industries within
the next few years and at the same time has limited capacity for policy development and
implementation in these areas. Accordingly there is a case for consolidating reform
experience and applying the lessons of reform across sectors as the sequence of industries
is worked through.



Page 8
The risks faced by investors are substantial in infrastructure and transport, where changes
in the regulatory framework can greatly impact returns on investments after these have
been made in significant, non-portable assets. Investor perceptions of risks may be
particularly high in Tanzania where there is limited history of infrastructure regulation and
perceptions of judicial weaknesses undermine confidence in the protections offered by
contractual agreements. Given these risks, it is important that investors are given early
and clear signals concerning industry structures, government goals and regulatory
frameworks and that these signals are bolstered with effective institutions and increased
stakeholder involvement in regulatory processes to strengthen transparency and ensure a
"level playing-field" in treatment of investors and consumers.
The GOT is giving consideration to various options for possibly two multi-sectoral
regulatory institutions, permitting the pooling of economic, financial and legal expertise
and facilitating the transfer of regulatory expertise across sectors. The arguments in favor
of this approach are being balanced against the discrete technical needs of each industry,
which would suggest a dedicated regulator for each industry.   By giving early
consideration to institutional issues, the GOT is acting in a way which minimizes the risk
that regulators will be unready for their new tasks after privatization transactions have
been completed.
The GOT has commissioned consultants to examine in detail the institutional options for
utilities and infrastructure regulation, including the desirability of cross-sectoral rules for
private entry into these sectors. This component of the project will place considerable
emphasis on building the regulatory capacity required for the privatization program, and
will attempt to take advantage of cross-sectoral economies in so doing.
D. Business Environment Improvements and FDI:  Expanding private and foreign
investment and operation, especially in utility and infrastructure sectors, will call for major
improvements in Tanzania's business environment through removal of regulatory and other
constraints. While the Government has undertaken actions to liberalize the trade and
exchange regime, further progress is needed with respect to investment regulation, business
licensing, property rights (land ownership), labor regulation, business law, judicial
training, investment incentives and taxation. It is very important that the Government take
steps to regularize its procedures and ensure equal treatment for investors over time
thereby reducing investors perceptions of country risk. In addition, Tanzania needs to
promote a much improved, investor friendly image abroad.
While significant improvements have been made over the past decade in the broader
macro-economic environment and in liberalizing major segments of Tanzania's previously
socialist economy opening them to local and foreign private investment, GOT recognizes
that the role of the government and the state-enterprise sector is still extensive and
impedes a more dynamic private investor response. Also, while private sector
representative organizations (chambers of commerce, industry and agriculture;
confederation of industries; etc.) have been established in recent years, these are still
fledgling institutions. Importantly, there is a perceived need in GOT and in the private
sector for a more effective consultative mechanism to facilitate a dialog leading to effective
business environment reforms in the above areas. Over the past 18 months, a private sector
appointed committee - recognized by GOT - has been working to prepare proposals for the
President on creation of such a consultative mechanism. Initially, the Tanzania Private
Sector Foundation , TPSF, has been created as an umbrella organization representing all



Page 9
major groupings and organizations in the private sector in Tanzania. Building upon
experiences of other African countries - including Uganda (private sector foundation),
Mauritius (national economic council) - proposals under preparation by TPSF for GOT
consideration are expected to be finalized shortly for establishment of a National Business
Council, NaBC, as a high-level government-private sector consultative body on
competitiveness issues. It will be important for ownership and credibility within the private
sector that the consultative mechanism be an independent and voluntary private sector-led
forum that is not controlled by government, nor dominated by specific private sector
groups. With this in mind, the TPSF has already been established as a limited liability
non-profit company.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
A. Privatization: The proposed Project will support GOT's efforts to streamline
and strengthen the privatization program to ensure timely, technically sound, and
transparent privatization transactions. It will help operationalize and institutionalize the
new policy of using competitively selected private sector investment advisors to prepare
and market firms as well as to technically evaluate potential bidders. In order to ensure the
smooth implementation of this policy, the Project will support design and implementation
of
a) streamlined Governmental approval processes;
b) improved internal procedures in PSRC for handling transactions; guidelines for
selection of investment advisors and their responsibilities;
c) continued capacity building to enhance technical capabilities of the privatization
commission (PSRC);
d) consistent and sustainable policies for handling PE retrenchment and PE debt;
e) increased accountability for use of privatization proceeds - through periodic
independent audit of the proceeds account managed by PSRC and MOF.
In adopting these changes, the option was considered of complete delegation of preparation
and execution of transactions to PSRC - following policy approval by Government - for all
transactions, including the very large strategic ones in infrastructure and utilities and other
PE's presenting policy concerns for government. Given the magnitude of the political and
policy issues involved, GOT has decided to delegate all but the latter to final decision by
the Economic Committee of the Cabinet under a "fast track" procedure, while the full
Cabinet retains more direct oversight on key implementation steps for the large and the
policy-sensitive PE's. To ensure greater efficiency and transparency, GOT has issued in
November 1999 a manual for privatization - procedures and process guidelines. This
stipulates that in future final Government approval of divestiture sales agreements will be
given in a period not exceeding thirty days from announcement of the winning bidder.
B. Debt Collection for Banks (LART): The proposed Project would: (1)
support the continuation and completion of LART's efforts to realize collections on non-
performing assets (NPAs) of state-owned banks as part of their restructuring and
privatization; and (2) prepare and help operationalize a strategy for: (a) subsequent
transfer of LART to the private sector, as part of a broader approach to creation of a
competitive debt collection market, and (b) subsequent transfer of the LART tribunal to
the commercial court system.



Page 10
The alternative of privatizing LART immediately was considered, but
rejected, as it would have disrupted LART's ongoing collection efforts, in a context in
which alternative equally effective debt collection services in the private sector have yet to
be established, and where the regular court system lacks the capacity to handle such cases
as expeditiously as the LART Tribunal. Given the important capacity that has been
created in LART and in the LART Tribunal, the alternative of winding them up - once the
collection effort is completed - was discarded in favor of using these as the basis for
creating a more effective private debt collection market.
C. Infrastructure and Utilities' Regulation: The Project will provide technical support -
including capacity building and public education - for the GOT's efforts in design,
decision-making and implementation of institutional arrangements for infrastructure and
utilities regulation, embracing telecommunications, water, electricity, ports, railways and
airports. The option of leaving institutional arrangements to case-by-case decisions for
each sector was considered, but rejected - as it would not permit the potential advantages
of cross-sectoral approaches to be actively considered at a sufficiently early stage. It would
also delay timely implementation of a basic regulatory capacity to coincide with
privatization of the state-owned national enterprise and market liberalization.
Implementation of more discretionary and inherently more demanding and complex
regulatory systems was considered, but also rejected, as it would most likely overstretch
initial institutional capacities. Instead, simple and largely contract-based regulation - with
only limited regulatory discretion - is expected to be the initial strategy. Once firmly
established, this capacity could be built up and expanded over time. Rather than
postponing adoption of regulatory measures until governance and judiciary systems can be
strengthened, or focusing on these per se, a program of extensive public education and
awareness-raising will be carried out among the range of concerned stakeholder groups -
notably including opinion-makers such as journalists in the Swahili press. The Project will
also provide funding on the initial establishment costs for regulatory institutions and for up
to three years' running costs, after which it is expected that a system of industry levies will
be used to establish financial sustainability.
D. Business Environment and FDI: The Project will support a dialog
between the government and the private sector - through a consultative mechanism (the
NaBC) to be established - aimed at helping define key policy, regulatory, and institutional
reforms for improving the business environment for private investment and FDI, as a vital
complement to the PE divestiture program. The alternative option of proceeding directly
with support for business environment reforms, without such a consultative mechanism
was considered, but was rejected, since experiences in Tanzania indicate (as in other
African countries) that government/private sector dialog can provide an important means
of building trust and a more open working relationship that is key to enacting sustainable
policy change. In addition, there is a strong and growing demand in the Tanzanian private
sector for such a dialog. The option of conducting such a dialog through existing private
sector representative organizations (such as the TCCIA, or CTI) was also considered, but
discarded, since no single organization provides a forum that can bring together the full
range of private sector interests in Tanzania. Consequently, a neutral and independent
body - with a temporary lifespan, and clear focus upon facilitating policy change - was
considered to be more effective.
C: Project Description Summary



Page 11
Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative Costs   % of Total  Bank-    % of Bank-
(US$M)                 financing    financing
(US$M)
Privatization Support 1/                  41.99    55%           26.27    34%
Debt Collection 1/                         12.09    16%           4.36     6%
Utilities Regulatory Design 1/             19.12    25%          13.92    18%
Bus. Environment Improv. Design 1/          3.60     5%            1.35    2%
Total                                     76.81    100%          45.90    60%
1/ - Include (on pro rata basis) contingencies and repayment of US$ 2m. Project Preparation Facility(PPF).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*  Streamlining of the PE divestiture process and procedures to facilitate
accelerated implementation of Tanzania's privatization program and
improved efficiency and transparency in its execution. This will be
achieved through : (a) early policy decisions by Government coupled with
greater delegation of execution of transactions through the agreed "fast track"
mechanism, and (b) use of clearer, simplified procurement procedures, based
upon outsourcing to competitively selected investment advisors, and generally
using price as final selection criterion, with investor technical capacity and
credentials for larger transactions determined through pre-qualification.
*  Implementation  of consistent  overall policies  for  PE  employee
retrenchment and treatment of PE debt to ensure fiscal sustainability and
equity and expanded stakeholder awareness and public communication
concerning Tanzania's privatization program.
*  Creation of   an institutional framework for private participation in
infrastructure (PPI), as part of the PE divestiture process, aimed at fostering
expanded private investment in infrastructure and utilities in the medium to
long term. Establishment of an effective overall institutional framework for
infrastructure and utilities regulation across the sectors, taking account of
Tanzania's significant institutional and governance constraints, and supported
by capacity building and public awareness raising efforts.
*  Strengthened repayment discipline in Tanzania's banking system, through
(1) expedited collections from defaulters on non-performing assets of public
sector commercial banks; and (2) expansion of Tanzania's fledgling private
market capacity for debt collection through transfer of LART in the medium
term to the private sector as part of an overall market-based strategy.
*  Creation of a government-private sector consultative mechanism  and
policy dialog on competitiveness improving reforms in Tanzania's business
environment.
In this context, as a prior action to Board presentation of the proposed IDA credit, in
September 1999, the Government has already approved a streamlined process and
procedures for strategy review and final approval of PE divestiture sales, based upon
which, in November 1999, PSRC has adopted new operational guidelines for the



Page 12
preparation and execution of PE divestitures, which will strengthen the efficiency and
transparency of the privatization program.
3. Benefits and target population:
Government:
Fiscal Benefits: Reduced investment expenditure, higher tax revenues, higher dividends
from remaining shares in firms.
Developmental Benefits: Increased services (phone, electricity, water, rail cargo, etc.),
increased productivity in economy (better services, decreased waiting times (e.g. ports),
less private provision of infrastructure (e.g. generators), reduced cost for intermediate
inputs leading to greater international competitiveness), more rapid expansion of networks,
higher connectivity and attendant information flows.
Private Sector: Increased access to higher quality and lower cost interrnediate goods and
services (particularly electricity, telecom, water), reductions in uncertainty of supply and
opportunities for rent seeking (bribes) by suppliers. Lower transportation costs and higher
degree of reliability (rail & port). Importantly, the privatization program also gives the
domestic private sector an opportunity to participate more fully in the economy by opening
up multiple sectors that were previously restricted to or dominated by the public sector. In
addition it allows much greater scope for entering into partnership with international firms
and thus increases the scope for significant technological and managerial skills transfers.
Domestic Consumers: Overall consumers can expect to gain through increased access to
utility and infrastructure products and services, as well as other goods and services
(milling, agricultural products, etc.). In some cases (e.g. telecom) these better goods and
services are expected to be provided at reduced prices due to increased competition. Since
the benefits will not accrue evenly across consumers it is useful to detail benefits to urban
and rural consumers separately.
Urban: Ability to connect to utility services (electricity and telecoms) without long
waiting periods or high bribes. Benefits in the form of lower prices on consumer goods due
to increased productivity (and therefore lower unit costs) on imports coming through the
container terminal as well as products transported by train.
Rural: Increased access to services as networks expand due to a) more sustainable
revenue stream for operators and b) agreements on rural network expansion within the
sales agreement and established regulatory framework (telecoms). Lower transportation
costs for agricultural products combined with increased competition among buyers in the
wholesale market should help boost producer prices which would generally accrue to rural
agriculturists.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Five years, 2000 to 2004
Executing Agencies: Given the project framework there will be two executing agencies
initially; a third - and potentially a fourth - will be established in the first year of the
project:



Page 13
(a)-PSRC - The privatization component of the project will be the responsibility
of the PSRC. The PSRC has about 16 professional level staff, including accountants.
Decisions within the PSRC are taken by the Commission (Board) which is headed by the
PSRC Executive Chairman (Managing Director). The PSRC reports to the Planning
Commission in the President's Office but, as a Presidential Commission, it also has direct
access to Cabinet and the President when necessary.
PSRC was established under the Public Corporations Act (1992, amended in
1993) with a five year legal mandate, extendable for one year, and by a further year on
approval by the MOF. The Minister of Finance has recently extended PSRC's mandate
through December 1999. Thereafter, however, an amendment to the Public Corporations
Act will be required to further extend PSRC's term until 2004, when the proposed Project
is planned to be completed. During appraisal, the GOT confirmed through a letter to the
Bank from the Minister of Finance that such an amendment would be sought, and, since
then, it has been prepared and presented to the October/November 1999 Parliamentary
Session for approval.
The Executive Chairman of PSRC is a senior, experienced and well qualified
Tanzanian official, with in-depth prior experience of private business and government, and
of PE divestiture. In January 1999 he succeeded the previous incumbent who had been
PSRC Executive Chairman during 1993-98.
(b)-LART - The liquidation/ NPA collection component of the project will be the
responsibility of LART which is composed of 20 professional staff including three
accountants. LART management answers to its board of directors and is responsible to
the Ministry of Finance which, under the LART Act, is the ultimate authority over LART.
(c)-Regulatory Agency(ies) -During the first year of implementation of the
proposed Project, the final decision on the number and format of the regulatory agencies
would be taken by GOT.
(d)-GovemMent/private sector consultative mechanism: The organizational set-up
for this will be finalized during the first year of the proposed Project's implementation.
Once the agencies under (c) and (d) above are established and staffed with qualified
professional staff, including accountants, they would assume executing agency status and
manage their own funds from the Bank. Until such time, however, disbursement for the
regulatory and business environment components would be managed by the PSRC, with
the additional administrative support needed to do so.
The effective execution of the Privatization and Bank Debt Collection components of the
proposed Project are not dependent upon the establishment of the infrastructure/utilities'
regulatory body(ies) or of the govermnent/private sector consultative mechanism.
Consequently, their establishment during project implementation will not call into question
the institutional framework for it. Rather, this will enhance its prospects for success by
allowing necessary time for consensus-building among stakeholders before the final
institutional set-up is agreed in each case.
The design and preparation of the cross-sectoral infrastructure/utilities regulatory set-up is



Page 14
being coordinated by an inter-ministerial working group comprising the Ministries of
Finance, Planning and Labor, with PSRC serving on an interim basis as its technical
secretariat.
Project Coordination and Oversight To ensure coordination at the govermnent policy
level, a high-level steering committee - chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Finance; and also comprising the Permanent Secretary Planning Commission in the
President's Office; the Permanent Secretary, Attomey General's Chambers; the Executive
Chairman of PSRC; and the Executive Administrator of LART - will be responsible for
oversight of execution of the Project.   Meanwhile, overall coordination of project
administration will be assured by PSRC through the PPSDP Project Administrator
Accounting. Financial Reporting and auditing arrangements:
The project accounts will be integrated into the accounting system of the irnplementing
agencies (PSRC and LART initially) and the Chief Accountants of both agencies will be
responsible for project accounting, maintenance of overall records, management of
disbursements, and production of project management reports, annual project accounts and
facilitation of timely audits. The external audit of PSRC and LART is to be conducted by
an independent external auditor in accordance with the TORs which were agreed upon at
negotiations. The auditors would follow the guidelines as set out in the Bank's Financial
Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). Audit reports will be furnished
to the Bank within six months after the close of the implementing agencies' financial year.
There are no audits of other IDA funded credits outstanding in the sector.
Assessment of Project for PMR-based disbursement: A detailed review of the proposed
financial management arrangements was carried out as part of the process and assessed the
project as meeting the minimum standards required by the Bank under its operational
procedures. However, it was not capable of producing Project Management Reports
(PMRs) as required under the Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI). Changes
are being made in the computer software and modifications will be effected to assure that
the project can produce PMRs. An action plan for financial management was prepared for
both PSRC and LART to incorporate the steps to be taken to transfer to PMR-based
disbursements and was agreed at negotiations. The transfer to PMR-based disbursements
is scheduled for June 30, 2001. The PMR financial reporting formats were discussed and
reviewed and will be finalized in accordance with the LACI Action Plan timetable agreed
during negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation arrangements:  Monitoring of project execution will be
undertaken by the each implementing agency. The Bank will monitor implementation
through periodic supervision missions and review of quarterly implementation progress
reports prepared by the implementing agencies. These reports will be consolidated by the
Project Administrator (PA). The PA will also consolidate PMRs in accordance with the
approved Work Plan. The preparation of the first Annual Work Plan covering January to
June 2001, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit Annual
Reviews of the project would be will be conducted by the PSRC and LART no later than
March 31 of each year, starting in FY200 1.



Page 15
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
IDA considered the options of supporting the Government's privatization program, and
related regulatory reforms in infrastructure and utilities through: (a) the (already
approved) SAC 1 alone, with follow up support through a subsequent possible policy-based
lending operation (eg., a SAC2), as an alternative to providing technical assistance; and/or
(b) ongoing and planned sector-specific investment and technical support operations (see
table D.2 below). However, these options were rejected for several reasons: First, neither
of these options would permit adequate and timely continuing support to the cross-sectoral
institutions (PSRC and LART) that have played key roles in providing the independently
managed technical capacity needed to ensure the effective implementation of the overall PE
privatization program, and advice to top policy-makers in this area. Equally importantly,
neither approach would enable valid and potentially effective cross-sectoral institutional
strategies to be applied to addressing establishment and capacity-building of regulatory
frameworks for infrastructure and utilities, which can potentially make possible important
economies of scope (especially in terms of scarce economic, legal and financial expertise)
under prevailing skill shortages in Tanzania.
Moreover, under option (a) above, the Government would have inadequate upfront
financial resources (given major budget constraints and privatization-related debt
restructuring and retrenchment costs) to enable it to acquire the services of internationally
experienced and qualified investment and legal advisers and merchant banks, and to retain
the services of qualified and experienced local professional staff (in PSRC and LART),
needed to execute the privatization and debt collection programs in a timely and efficient
manner. Meanwhile, the economic cost of privatizing large PE's - particularly in
infrastructure and utilities - without a proper regulatory framework in place could well be
higher. Experience elsewhere suggests that this would lead to a much reduced investor
response, while experience in Tanzania suggests that it could well lead to economically
disadvantageous agreements in which many of the potential benefits to society are captured
by private parties due to poor regulation.



Page 16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                 Project    Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
nImplementation   Development
Progress (IP)     Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Assist in privatization of PEs and collection    PPRP         S                S
of NPAs in the financial system.
Privatization of: Telecommunications,      SAC 1              S                S
Container Terminal at Port of Dar es Salaam
and Marine Services Division of TRC. Also,
liberalization of shipping industry through
lifting of monopolies of TCFB and Nasaco.
Assist in the restructuring and rehabilitation    USRP        S                S
of the water supply sector in eight centers
outside_Dar_es_Salaam                                   _______
Assist in the restructuring and privatization    Dar es   Proposed -    Proposed - not
(through lease-contract) of the Dar es Salaam   Salaam   not yet rated     yet rated
water and sewerage company ( DAWASA),   water
including industry structure, preparation of    supply
contracts, tariffs and sector regulations, and    project
priority rehabilitation investment            _
Assist in the preparation for privatization  RRP              S               U
(through concessioning) of the national
railway (TRC), including industry structure,
preparation of contracts , tariffs and sector
policies, and rehabilitation investments
Assist in restructuring of TANESCO,        Power VI           U               U
including investments in power generation
capacity
Assist in the preparation for privatization of   Ports        S                S
Tanzanian Ports, including industry structure,  Mod.
preparation of contracts and necessary
regulatory structures.
Assist in ensuring that Agricultural markets    ASMP          S                S
are free of unnecessary regulatory entities and
function smoothly.
Assist in the preparation for privatization of   TRP          S                S
TTCL, including industry structure,
preparation of contracts and necessary
regulatory structures.
Other Donors
Assist in privatization of PE's through    DFID              N/A             N/A
technical support to PSRC for provision of    Privatizati
two resident international advisers and for  on
PSRC's communications program Irn
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The privatization program to date (1993-1999) has been supported by a previous IDA
credit for the Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project (PPRP). The lessons learned
during the implementation of the PPRP have been:
* The need to define better the privatization modalities and the roles of the various
institutions and agencies involved (PSRC, line ministries, cabinet, etc.) to ensure an
efficient, transparent process. This is particularly important as experience has shown
that the lack of a clearly delineated process with clear areas of responsibility has led to
confusion, a lack of coordination, and, in some cases, a lack of transparency.
* The need to increase the delegation of authority to PSRC and its advisors, and at the
same time, to increase accountability through periodic independent process audits.
* The need to increase the technical capacity of the program through contracting out to
experienced investment advisers and consultants (particularly for large, infrastructure
related firms).
* The need to better evaluate, plan and obtain agreement on consistent overall
approaches to such problems as: a) retrenchment policy and implementation, and b)
the handling of PE debt.
* The need for better communication with stakeholders (including the general public) on
the policies, the program and the use of the proceeds.
In addition to these lessons from previous projects in Tanzania, lessons from privatization
programs in the region and around the world, particularly on the importance of regulatory
frameworks for privatized infrastructure, indicate:
* the necessity for a regulatory framework for infrastructure and utility companies that
is clearly spelled out and credibly committed to by the government in order to attract
sufficient high quality investors and operators and to ensure effective competition.
* the importance of ensuring -that the regulatory regime is feasible in the Tanzanian
context (i.e. light contract-based regulation in the initial stages), credible for potential
investors and sustainable over the longer term. This will require that GOT effectively
put into place mechanisms which reinforce the Government's conmmitment to treat
investors fairly and reduce the ability of the concerned parties (including future
govermtents) to unilaterally undo commitments.
* the significant benefits resulting from effective, mutually agreed, government-private
sector consultative mechanisms for enabling a dialog on business environment reforms
to yield practical and sustainable policy change, provided that both sides are
committed to the process - as well as the utility of donor-supported technical
assistance to help facilitate it.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOT commitment to and ownership of the Tanzanian privatization program has



Page 18
evolved quite significantly over the last five years, from a situation characterized by
limited commitment and timid support for the concepts of privatization and private sector-
led growth, to one of strong, open support for both.
The ownership and commitment of the Third Phase administration to the privatization
process has been consistently strong.  The Third Phase administration has been
instrumental in pushing the program forward beyond medium and small scale enterprises
toward actively seeking private sector investment and operation in all the major
infrastructure and utilities PE's. One of the strongest signals of this change occurred in
1997 when, for the first time, the Executive Council of the ruling party, the CCM, reversed
its long held policy on public ownership and formally endorsed the idea of private sector
led economic growth. The government then followed up on these pronouncements and
publicly displayed its ownership of the reforms by announcing their intention to privatize
potentially politically sensitive sectors such as water, railways and electricity. These are
not politically costless actions and normally signal relatively high levels of political
commitment. At the same time, substantial progress has been made by GOT in reducing
the size and scope of government activities by retrenching over 100,000 employees in the
civil service, the military and the PE's and successfully privatizing over 150 parastatals -
including several large ones (notably the brewery and cigarette factory) all of which has
contributed to a greatly changed climate of public opinion.
While it would seem that the Government is in a strong position to pursue the privatization
agenda with reduced opportunities for opposition and obstruction within the ruling political
Party, the experience over the last three years has been more mixed with respect to the
implementation of PE divestitures. Despite repeated statements from the Government
about the need to move ahead and the importance of transparency in the transactions, there
have frequently been delays in taking urgently needed actions on such issues as
retrenchment and debt treatment policies which have hampered timely implementation. The
political risks underlying the sustainability of the privatization program are thus still high,
despite the progress that has been made. The Bank is endeavoring to play a supportive
role through sharing of "best practices" and by supporting more efficient and transparent
approaches to handling transactions. This is especially true for the more complex, larger
divestitures on which local knowledge and experience are still very limited.
During the preparation of this project, the GOT committed itself to prepare the necessary
policy changes in the key areas identified above, notably PE retrenchment and treatment of
PE debt. The Government has undertaken a review of current processes, at both
Government and PSRC level, and has undertaken a practical training program for PSRC
and key ministry personnel in privatization techniques for infrastructure.
In terms of the regulatory arrangements for infrastructure and utility sectors, the GOT has
now begun to appreciate the importance of these issues and the need to address them as an
integral part of its privatization strategy. This appreciation has been heightened in light of
the mixed experiences with the telecoms regulator (TCC) created in 1993. However,
knowledge and awareness of these issues, and the changes in government role they imply,
are still quite limited among policymakers and officials. Hence, a major effort at sharing
of "best practices" and awareness raising has been a key element of GOT's project
preparation. This effort has contributed to widespread discussions on the regulatory
issue and a much better understanding of the role and importance of clear regulatory
frameworks  and  institutional  arrangements.    Meanwhile,  in  each  major



Page 19
infrastructure/utility sector, the Bank has been providing technical assistance on the design
of suitable regulatory arrangements.
As regards the private business environment the Third Phase administration has
recognized the importance of improving the dialog with the private sector as a means of
building confidence and identifying and addressing the many regulatory constraints that
still affect private business activities. High level support has been given to the creation of a
National Business Council (NatBusC), which is in the process of formation. Meanwhile,
the local private sector has expanded and become more dynamic and vociferous and
effective in voicing its economic policy concerns to government - as witnessed by the
effective consultations on tax reforms in 1997. Following on from this and building upon
it, the Tanzanian private sector established the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation, TPSF,
in 1998. In addition, the GOT's promotional efforts and improvements in the regulatory
framework in the mining sector have resulted in significant inward foreign investment.
Despite these positive steps, significant reticence remains within government to addressing
the problems affecting the business environment. This is being addressed to some degree
by efforts in the civil service reform program to "re-educate" civil servants on their role
vis-a-vis private firms, and also to re-engineer government procedures to streamline them,
and also recent reviews aimed at reorienting and streamlining the role of the Tanzania
Investment Center (TIC). .
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
- Through the PPSDP, the Bank will be able to provide vitally needed assistance and
technical support for key elements of the Government's adjustment program. In particular,
through IDA financing and Bank technical support, the project will enable the Government
to have access to quality advisors for both the privatization of large sections of its
economy and the necessary regulatory framework so that the country can maximize the
economic gains from this private sector participation and from reform of the private
business environment.
- The Bank is an important supporter of the client's efforts to increase transparency and
public accountability.
- As a multilateral institution, with considerable experience globally and in Africa in
providing such assistance, the Bank is well placed to provide objective technical advice
and support in the areas of privatization, utility regulation and business environment
reforms.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex
8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; ERR= % [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other
We do not feel that this type of TA operation lends itself to rigorous quantitative economic
evaluation methodology, since many of the most important economic benefits are indirect
and consequently difficult to impute with any accuracy. However, areas where one would
expect to see some of the benefits are outlined below . The benefits expected from this
operation, which will accrue to several distinct parts of Tanzanian society, have already



Page 20
been outlined in Section 3.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$     million; FRR=   %
Since this is not an investment operation we have not calculated an NPV, however the
project costs and sources of funds are detailed in Annex 5.
3. Technical:
Public Enterprise Debt Policy :A key policy issue to be addressed by the proposed Project,
through elaboration of a consistent strategy and provision of qualified expertise, is the
restructuring of excessive public enterprise debt needed to facilitate timely sale of the
enterprises concerned. The enterprise debt study, carried out by consultants appointed by
GOT and fanded out of the PPF, surveyed 71 enterprises which account for 95% of total
fixed assets remaining to be privatized and identified a total of Tsh. 1,124 billion of debt
(US$ 1.68 billion). Because of the state of the records this is likely to underestate the true
total debt of the parastatal sector.
About 66% of this debt is owed by just 4 companies, TANESCO, TTCL, THA and NBC,
and an estimated 80% of the total may have government guarantees. Of the total stock of
debt roughly 38% is multilateral, 22% has been lent or on-lent by the Treasury, 29% could
not be categorized due to poor record keeping and the final 11% was due to a variety of
sources including trade credit, commercial loans, inter-company arrears and unpaid taxes.
The study reveals the extent of financial distress and the poor state of many of the
businesses. Of the 71 companies examined, 44 companies (61% of the total) were in
serious financial difficulty. Of these 13 were no longer operational, 19 had negative cash
flow and 30 had current assets that were less than current liabilities (the categories are not
mutually exclusive).
On this basis, four policy recommendations have been made for the future of the
privatization program: first, there is a need to adjust expectations of the probable proceeds
from sales to the reality of the assets, among Government officials, Parliamentarians and
the general public; second, the need to use rapid assessment techniques to determine the
most distressed enterprises and move them into liquidation rapidly; third, that the
government must be prepared to reduce the debt in a number of the larger enterprises
(particularly the utilities) in order to make them attractive to investors; fourth, this does
not imply that all the debt must be absorbed by the Treasury, but that a variety of debt
reducing strategies will need to be spelled out and operationalized if the Govermnent
wishes to keep to its privatization schedule.
The study proposes a stepwise methodology be established which PSRC and the
investment advisors have to use. The general purpose of the methodology is to rapidly
assess firms to be liquidated and then exhaust the simpler debt reduction techniques (sale
of non-core assets, cross debt settlement, etc.) before moving to more complicated
measures (debt-equity swap, debt re-scheduling, etc.).
4. Institutional:
(A) Privatization Process - In Tanzania, as in other countries, privatization is



Page 21
importantly a political as well as a financial, technical and economic process. As
elsewhere, it is important, as far as possible, to separate clearly the political and policy
decision-making functions that are rightfully the responsibility of top government
policymakers, from the technical responsibilities for execution that need to be delegated to
qualified and experienced professionals under conditions of transparency and
accountability. Thusfar, experiences over the last five years have shown that lack of
attention to broad strategic decisions, combined with excessive ad hoc involvement of
policymakers in details of execution, have impeded timely and efficient implementation of
transactions. The modifications discussed at appraisal and agreed at negotiations in the
government approval process, as well as in PSRC's procedures for preparation and
execution of transactions, are aimed at addressing this concern, while enhancing GOT's
overall policy direction.
In Tanzania, as elsewhere, with limited in-house capacity in government to carry out large,
technically demanding transactions, the contracting of competitively selected, qualified
and experienced international investment advisors will be key to effective and timely
execution of PE divestitures. For such an arrangement to be cost effective, however, the
process must function smoothly and with a minimum of delays. To facilitate this, the
GOT has already launched a program of capacity building through intensive joint training
for staff of PSRC and the line ministries on the specific issues related to large transactions
and the use of investment advisors. In addition internationally qualified investment and
legal advisers are being recruited to handle major utility and infrastructure privatization
transactions - notably in telecoms, water supply, ports.
A key change to be adopted to improve the efficiency of implementation of large
divestiture transactions, will be the use of price generally as the final determinant of sale.
In such cases, the GOT will want qualified investors so as to ensure technical service
standards. So, it is expected that bidders would be pre-qualified based upon their
experience and credentials. Qualified bidders would be required to agree to common
service and regulatory requirements, where relevant - notably in certain infrastructure and
utilities sectors. On this basis, final selection of the winning bidder could be based upon
price , through a competitive tendering process. Financial bids could be opened and the
winning bidder announced at a widely publicized official ceremony that would be
broadcast live on radio and television. The President and his Cabinet would meet quickly
thereafter to ratify the selection process.
For small and medium PE divestitures, where possible and necessary, PSRC will "batch"
these into lots of 5-10 PE's and preparation and execution of transactions would be carried
out through competitively selected investment advisers remunerated in part through
success fees with tenders advertised both locally and internationally. Selection of the
winning bidder would be based upon price through a competitive tendering process, with
widely publicized opening of bids. No business plan would be required, and no technical
evaluation undertaken - except that prequalification might be used for selected large PE's.
PE's slated for liquidation could be transferred to LART to handle.
Lastly, as responsibility for transactions is delegated to PSRC and their transaction
advisors, it will be necessary to implement stronger mechanisms to ensure their
accountability in a transparent manner. To help ensure this the GOT has agreed to
periodic general process audits of the implementation of the privatization program



Page 22
(B) Utility and Infrastructure Regulatorv Framework: The main aim of
this part of the proposed Project is to assist GOT in establishing a basic initial framework
of effective institutional arrangements for infrastructure regulation - within which
appropriate regulatory arrangements can be created in stages over time as the different
sectors are liberalized and privatized, and over a medium to longer term timeframe, as
local regulatory skills and capacity are built up. This is thus the first stage in what must
be viewed as a long term institution-building process.
There are limited options to be confronted in this task - building regulatory capacity
requires a concerted effort including training, international advisory support, study tours
etc, with choices largely restricted to how much to spend and how to get best value from
monies spent. The central policy decision to be made concerns industry coverage of
regulatory authorities (multiple agencies or a single agency). . Using PPF funds, the GOT
has commissioned a study examining broad institutional options, as well as issues such as
independence and accountability, sectoral coverage, relationships between ministries,
regulators and stakeholders and implementation/ transitional issues. It is expected that the
study will be used as the basis for a Cabinet submission which would obtain an early
decision on institutional arrangements. GOT's plan is to prepare draft enabling legislation
for creation of the proposed cross-sectoral regulatory bodies, that could be submitted to
Parliament for approval in January 2000. Following this decision it will be possible to
proceed to more detailed institutional design and legislative implementation of the chosen
set-up.
The institutional setting for the regulators (in whatever format they eventually take) will be
very important. The discussions and training engaged in with the GOT have reinforced the
need for the regulator to have autonomy from the government to ensure they are not seen
as politically controlled. While it is not possible, nor desirable, to predetermine a given set
of institutional arrangements for utility regulation, the study has brought to bear the
lessons of international experience to help ensure that attention to issues such as the
methods of appointment and dismissal, the scope of responsibility and security of financing
are addressed during the project.
There is a distinction between the institutions which enforce regulatory rules in the utility
and transport sectors and the content of those rules. Thus following one country's rules
governing telecommunications interconnection need not mean that the country's regulatory
institutions should also be copied. In the area of utility and transport regulation, this
project focuses on institutional issues, leaving the design of sector-specific regulatory rules
to separate industry-specific projects, also funded by IDA, being undertaken in parallel but
in close coordination with the proposed Project.
Separate, ongoing and planned sectoral Bank-funded projects (see Section D.2 above) are
supporting developing the regulatory rules governing private investment in telecoms,
electricity, water, ports and railways. To facilitate investor confidence, it is likely that
these regulatory schemes will place strong reliance on contract-based rules, with minimal
discretion for regulators. Nevertheless there are likely to remain important roles for
regulators, such as contract monitoring, enforcement, resolution of disputes not warranting
international arbitration and handling of consumer complaints. In some cases, forms of
economic regulation requiring greater economics and accounting skills may be adopted, for
example, setting telecommunications interconnection tariffs.



Page 23
The proposed regulatory component of the Project will support several initiatives aimed at
establishing effective institutional arrangements for infrastructure regulation: a) it will
facilitate the early consideration of institutional arrangements from a cross-sectoral
perspective, including consideration of whether it makes sense to have individual
regulators for each industry, regulators for related industries (e.g. gas and electricity), a
multi-sectoral regulator or some combination of these; b) once the decision about what
kind and how many regulators is taken it will assist in the design, creation and training of
the regulator(s); and c) the project will help to install additional checks on arbitrary
regulatory actions with a public education campaign aimed at increasing awareness of the
objectives and roles of regulation and the role of stakeholders in the new regulatory
frameworks. While not the only factor required to establish investor confidence, the
effectiveness of the new institutional arrangements will play a vital role in ensuring the
success of the infrastructure privatizations and will have implications for future rounds of
private investment in these sectors. Competent regulatory institutions will also help to
lessen recourse to judicial dispute resolution, thereby partially addressing investor
perceptions of judicial weaknesses.
Concerning the public awareness campaign,  the choices relate to the design of the
campaign and the effectiveness of different delivery mechanisms. Key stakeholder groups
to be targeted are expected to be private investors, consumers and major users, as well as
key groups and opinion-makers in civil society, notably including civic and political
leaders, educators and journalists.
5. Social:
(A) Public Enterprise Retrenchment Policv - As a basis for design of a more
consistent, equitable and fiscally sustainable PE retrenchment policy, GOT commissioned
a review based upon a consultant study - funded by the PPF for the proposed Project and
also supported by technical advice and research from the Bank's Development Research
Department (DECRG). The study made an assessment of current PE retrenchment policies
and practices in recent years. It reviewed current statutory provisions for severance pay,
related benefits (eg., resettlement) and pensions, and their administration. Against a
backdrop of recent experiences resulting in widely varying levels of retrenchment payments
- often unrelated to objective economic and social factors, the review  developed a
methodology for assessing the expected losses for different categories of PE employees
from retrenchment, taking into account such factors as age, skills, and geographic location.
The study was aimed at helping define options for ensuring a larger measure of economic
efficiency and equity in the future policy and establishing guidelines for detennining the
economic basis to justify severance payments beyond the statutory allowances. These
guidelines are based on transparency and equity considerations associated with the
probability of, and time lag anticipated for, an employee being re-employed and the likely
resulting future remuneration, based upon observed labor market trends in Tanzania.
The study was aimed at helping to inform and clarify all parties' understanding of what
payments are being made. Up to this point the "retrenchment" packages have generally
been a combination of different elements, including the statutory severance payment,
statutory pension payment and often, but not always, a widely varying "ex gratia"
payment ("golden handshake") as well as two types of pension payment (one upfront
lump-sum payment equal to 25% of the full pension, in addition to either a further lump-
sum approximating the NPV of expected future payments, or a commitment to pay future



Page 24
pension benefits.) In addition the study has clarified the magnitude of the equity problem
involved with workers in liquidated firms whose statutory benefits are greatly out of line
with packages in privatized firms. The reforms needed in this area were discussed with
GOT during project appraisal, and it is GOT's intention to present a policy paper to
Cabinet for consideration and decision by January 31, 2000.
Against the previous practice until now, if adopted, the proposed new approach would, in
essence, call for any severance payments beyond the statutory allowance to be determined
based upon a market-based assessment of a retrenchee's re-employment prospects and
anticipated resulting future wage losses. Application of the proposed new methodology for
six major parastatals (that comprise a major share of the PE labor force, and would likely
need to retrench about 10,000 employees) yields an absolute total cost of about Tsh. 35.2
billion (or US$54 m. equivalent) - assuming 6,000 retrenchees The unit cost would
average about Tsh. 8.2 million per worker, or around 4 times annual salary (excluding
pensions, the average cost per worker is about 5.2 million T.Sh.). If adopted in practice, it
would represent a significant savings in total and unit costs combined with a more
equitable distribution of severance benefits in relation to anticipated future income losses.
The unit cost cited above is in line with retrenchment operations in other developing
countries in Africa and elsewhere, and is consistent when using different data sources and
methodological variations. Nevertheless, the fiscal cost is large and ways to reduce the
upfront costs may be considered, in particular, with respect to pension issues.
As regards possibilities for reductions in costs, the review proposes that six issues should
be considered:
(a) Changes in the legislation. The current Parastatal Provident Fund (PaPF)
pension scheme allows a relatively young retrenched worker to receive pension
benefits. This contradicts the principle of a pension. Pension payments should be
deferred until retirement age.
(b) Increase in the retirement age. Retirement age is apparently low (50-55) in
relation to similar African countries (often 60 in other countries).
(c) Reduction of up-front pension payments. This is currently set at 25 percent of
the total pension to be received by the worker.
(d) Long term bonds. These bonds may be issued instead of, or in combination
with, option (a).
(e) Pension refund. A more radical approach would be to refund pension
contributions (plus interest) instead of assuming the future pension cost of
workers.
These proposals would require more fundamental changes than the proposed adjustment in
severance benefit computation. They would be explored by GOT in future, as part of a
fuller re-assessment of the Parastatal Pension Fund and pension schemes generally.
(B) Affordability of Utility Tariffs - There is some potential for negative social
impact due to the raising of prices for utility services to make them solvent and
sustainable. We believe, however that the extremely low penetration rates for most of
these services and high socio-economic skewing of provision will mean that the truly needy
will be unaffected by the changes as they were never served.
6. Environmental assessment: Enviromnental Category [] A   [] B    [X] C  This



Page 25
project did not include an upfront environmental assessment, because it is aimed at
supporting an overall institutional framework for the divestiture of a large portfolio of
widely differing PEs. However, as pat of that framework, environmental assessments will
be undertaken where ever needed as part of the PE divestiture preparation process.
7. Participatory approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Privatization:
Government - There has been wide discussion within the government and all
ministries concerned over the lack of government finance for continued investmnent
in public enterprises. All of the line ministries have had a strong say in the
divestiture strategy for firms that fall within their ministries and each ministry has at
least one member on the Divestiture Task Team for each of its enterprises. In
addition the relevant ministries have all been included in discussions of regulatory
arrangements.
Investors - There has been an effort to get investor feedback on the divestiture
strategies of individual enterprises. This has been particularly true for the large
utility and infrastructure transactions where investor conferences are being planned
to ensure that final divestiture offerings have taken into account market sentiment.
Utility and Infrastructure companies - The companies themselves have been
intimately involved with the preparation of their own divestiture strategy. This is
most apparent with enterprises that are further along in the process (e.g. TTCL).
Regulation:
In the process of preparation of the proposed Project, widespread consultations were
held by the inter-ministerial working group and by the Bank task team across all the
relevant ministries and with the firms to ascertain their thinking on the regulatory
framework. In addition a workshop was held in March 1999 for all actors within
the government and the affected industries to discuss these issues more widely.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Privatization
Labor - Previously labor had not been formally represented in the GOT's
privatization program, however, the president of the Tanzanian Federation of Trade
Unions as well as a former principal secretary of labor sit on the PSRC
Commission. During preparation of this project however, labor was consulte
extensively in the preparation of the new retrenchment remuneration guidelines.
General Public - To date the general public has been involved only to the extent that
they have been the target of communications campaigns seeking to raise awareness
and acceptance of the program. However, under the funding of DFID, international
consultants have been recruited to help design and implement a much wider
communications campaign that is seeking to inform and involve the public about the
program and how they can participate in or benefit from it.
Regulation



Page 26
Business and Residential Consumers - The regulatory framnework design is not yet
at a stage where it would be fruitful to have very widespread discussions. However,
the business community has been approached (through representative organizations
such as the TCCIA and CTI) and has shown interest in being involved in
discussions on the regulatory framework. It has also been agreed with GOT that
community and residential consumer groups be identified and participate in
discussions on the regulatory framework and that mechanisms (e.g. consultative
groups or meetings) be built into the regulatory set-up to ensure that consumers
have a voice in regulatory affairs.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability: The Project entails significant risks with respect to policy
implementation and capacity: While GOT is now generally committed to privatization of
major PE's (notably in infrastructure and utilities), and to a reduced role for the state in
the economy, the transition toward private sector-led, market-based growth is still at an
early stage. While the Third Phase Administration is providing strong leadership to
accelerate the pace of change, within the ruling political party (the CCM), there seems
more modest evidence of overall political consensus on the current reform efforts. In
addition, the planned divestitures of major infrastructure and utility PE's over the next 3-4
years involve policy and regulatory issues that are new to Tanzania, given its socialist
past, and for which technical and managerial capacity is very limited. The risks of
wavering government commitment to an efficient and transparent divestiture process,
undermined by undue influence of powerful vested interests, must be considered as
substantial. Equally, the risk must be viewed as high that inadequate government
commitment to necessary reforms (aimed at freeing up markets, increasing competition
and removing bureaucratic controls), combined with inadequate governance and corrupt
practices, may continue to constrain the business environment for private and foreign
investment. More specifically, there are risks that lack of consistent policies with respect to
PE retrenchment and treatment of PE debt could undermine the financial and fiscal
sustainability of the privatization program.
The Project design and preparation have sought to mitigate these factors in a
number of ways:
(a) The policy and political risks associated with GOT commitment to sustainable
implementation of privatization are being mitigated by reaching early agreement on
a streamlined, more transparent process for handling Government approval of
divestiture transactions, and internal procedural improvements in PSRC, as well as
adoption of consistent overall policy guidelines for PE retrenchment, and treatment
of PE debt;
(b) The business environment risks, associated with continuation of bureaucratic
controls and constraints on private business activities together with political
interference and rent-seeking, will be addressed through creation of a Government-
private sector policy dialog forum to champion specific reforms, and, beyond the
scope of this Project, support for implementation of these reforms through the
proposed SAC2 (FY00);
(c) The regulatory risk associated with potential political interference in the
regulation of privatized activities in utilities and infrastructure, and with initially



Page 27
very limited regulatory capacity, are being addressed by: early GOT consideration
of institutional arrangements for the regulatory framework built upon extensive
awareness-raising with major stakeholders (especially in government and the public
sector), support for a strong training and capacity building programn under the
regulatory component of the Project; and a proposed campaign aimed at raising
public awareness of regulatory issues and the role of stakeholders in ensuring that
appropriate standards and prices are maintained.   These approaches are
complemented by parallel efforts aimed at developing sector-specific regulatory
rules which are likely to provide limited regulatory discretion and to provide
contractual protections to investors.
(d) The governance risk associated with corrupt practices and excessive influence
of vested interests will be addressed through improvements in the policies and
process for privatization and regulation (see above), as well as, more generally,
beyond the scope of the present Project, through follow-up to the recent World Bank
Anti-Corruption Report, as well as related aspects of the follow-on IDA -funded
Public Service Reform Project.
(e) The implementation risk associated with limited technical capacity in PSRC and
concerned GOT ministries, mitigated through provision of hands-on practical
training to PSRC and govermment staff during Project preparation and initial
implementation (funded by IDA), as well as long-term advisory and technical
support to PSRC (funded by UK-DFID).
(f) The social risk associated with potential for social dislocation, hardship, and
unrest due to inequitable and inadequate PE retrenchment policies and practices, will
be addressed through   agreement on consistent overall guidelines for PE
retrenchment and review of GOT policy early during Project implementation.



Page 28
2 Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                 Risk         Risk Minirnization Measure
Rating
Policy & Political Risk - Govt.      H     Upfront agreement on process and policy
commitment to sound divestiture            improvements
process
Regulatory Risks - Political         S     Early agreement on regulatory design
interference and weak regulatory            and guidelines (minimalist approach to
capacity                                   regulation) Awareness-raising and
capacity building
Governance Risk - Continuation of    S     Upfront agreement on process and policy
non-transparent and corrupt practices      improvements
Irnplementation of action plan on Anti-
Corruption (outside the scope of the
proposed Project)
Implementation Risk - Inadequate     S     Training and Capacity building efforts
technical capacity in implementing          during Project Preparation &
agencies (PSRC, GOT ministries)             Implementation
Long-term Advisory support
Social Risk in Privatization -       M     Early agreement on consistent guidelines
Backlash and unrest caused by               for PE retrenchment
inequitable PE retrenchment policies
H     Govt.-private sector dialog forum.
Business Environment Risk -Govt.            SAC2 to support reforms
commitment to removal of
bureaucratic controls and freeing up
markets
Overall Risk Rating   S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects (Project Alert System):
Risk                   Type of Risk Rating  Risk Minimization
Risk               Measure
Policy & Political Risks (see above)     G       H            See above
Business Environment Risk (see above)    G       H            See above
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management
capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 29
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
The Government of Tanzania (GOT) shall:
* furnish the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory
to IDA;
*  fumish an annual work plan for the Project covering the period January 1,
2000 through June 30, 2001, satisfactory to IDA;
* open the Project Account and deposit in it the initial deposit in the amount of
US$ 1.25 million equivalent;
*  cause to have been amended the Public Corporations (Amendment) Act of
1993 to extend the mandate of the PSRC through end December 2004.
2. Other
a.    The Government of Tanzania (GOT) shall:
* consider and decide upon a policy framework and operational guidelines for
PE employee retrenchment, satisfactory to IDA, ensuring application of
consistent principles across divestiture transactions (See Sections B.2.A.(b)
and E.5.(a) above) [Dated Covenant - by January 31,2000];
* Consider and decide upon a policy framework and operational guidelines for
treatment of PE debt, satisfactory to IDA, ensuring consistent and timely debt
resolution, as needed, for divestiture transactions (See Sections B.2.A.(c), and
E.3 above) [Dated Covenant - by January 31, 2000];
* cause to be transferred in a timely manner to LART for collection suciNPAs
from NBC as need to be liquidated to complete the financial restructuring of
NBC (See Section B.3.B above) [Dated Covenant - by March 15, 2000];
* review and adopt an appropriate transition strategy for LART and the LART
Tribunal, based upon the findings of the review (being) undertaken, once
LART has completed its initial mandate of collection ofNPAs for the public
sector banks (See Sections B.2.B and B.3.B above) [Dated Covenant - by
June 30, 2001.].
* adopt an institutional framework for infrastructure and utilities regulation
across sectors, satisfactory to IDA, based upon the results of the options
review, including adoption of enabling legislation and regulations, as needed,
creation of independent regulatory body (ies) with adequate sources of
funding and technical support, and conduct of a public education program
(See Section E.4.C above) [Dated Covenant - by April 15, 2000; Condition
of Disbursement of Regulatory Component];
* agree and implement with private sector representatives a mutually



Page 30
acceptable institutional franework and modalities for the government-private
sector consultative mechanism, satisfactory to IDA, to address regulatory and
other constraints to competitiveness (See Sections B.2.D and E.4.D above)
[Condition of Disbursement of Business Environment Component];
b.    The Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) shall:
*  maintain an organization, staffing, progress reporting, accounts and audits,
satisfactory to IDA [Standard Bank lending condition];
*  commission, on behalf of GOT, periodic (annual) independent audit of the
GOT's privatization proceeds account, for which it serves as administrator
(See Section B.2.A.(d) above);
c.    The Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART) shall:
*  take receipt of, in a timely manner, and undertake collection onNPAs to be
transferred to it by the public sector banks (notably NBC) as part of the
latter's' fmancial restructuring (See Sections B.2.B and B.3.B above) [Dated
Covenant - by March 15, 2000f
*  maintain organization, staffing, progress reporting, accounts and audits,
satisfactory to IDA [Standard Bank lending condition];
*  comnission, on behalf of GOT, the future options study for LART and the
LART Tribunal, and undertake as needed preparation and implementation of
their transition, further to GOT's decision in this regard (See Sections B.2.B
and B.3.B) [Dated Covenant -June 30, 2001].
d.    Once legally established, the Infrastructure and Utilities Regulatory Body(ies)
shall:
*  adopt and maintain an organizational structure, staffing, progress reporting,
accounts and audits, satisfactory to IDA [Standard Bank lending condition];
*  adopt operational guidelines and a procedures manual for economic
regulation of infrastructure in the participating sectors, satisfactory to IDA,
sufficient to ensure effective, independent and balanced regulation (See
Sections B.3.C. and E.4.B above) [Dated Covenant- by July 31, 2000];
*  adopt and commence implementation of a capacity building and staff
development program for economic regulafion, satisfactory to IDA, including
as needed international technical advisory support) (See Sections B.3.C. and
E.4.B above) [Dated Covenant - by October 31, 2000];
*  adopt and undertake a widespread program  of public education and
awareness-raising on economic regulation of infrastructure and utilities,
satisfactory to IDA (See Sections B.3.C and E.4.B above) [Dated Covenant -
by June 30, 2001].
e.    Once legally established, the Government-Private Sector Consultative Body,



Page 31
and/or an administrative agent acting on its behalf, shall:
  adopt and maintain an institutional set-up, satisfactory to IDA, including
consultative functions, annual programs of activities, and broad-based
representation of government departments and private sector enterprises,
aimed at ensuring effective consensus-building and definition of concrete
reform proposals to be presented to GOT (See Sections B.2.D and B.3.D and
Annex 2);
*  recruit and maintain a small, professionally run, cost-effective secretariat,
satisfactory to IDA, including professional staff, and preparation of timely
progress reporting, accounts and auditing for the Consultative Body (See
Annex 2).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 3 The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation. [ X] Not applicable.
[ 3 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[ x] A draft of the Project Implementation Plan was discussed during Project appraisal
and a revised version was reviewed at negotiations . It has been appraised and found to be
realistic and of satisfactory quality. It will be finalized as a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed IDA Credit.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Paul Bal'
Sector Manager/Director: Demb  Ba / Alan Gelb
Country Manager/Director: James Adarns
tms



Page 32
Annex I
Project Design Summary
Tanzania: Privatization and Private Sector Development
Table 1 - Development Objectives
S.  Narrative Summary        Key Performance         Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
N                            Indicators              Evaluation
0
W         ???.
Contribution to growth of Annual Bureau of    Government
Reallocation of national    GDP thru privatized  Statistics Data,    commitment to reform
resources to achieve     sectors                 World Bank Reports
development goals and
improve the quality of   Investment in privatised   Survey of privatized
goods and services       enterprises.            enterprises
post-peivatization growte
i employment. t
1.  Reduction of the role of    Reduction of PE portfolio Treasury Reports  Goveament
the State in commertcial    Reduction of govenb ment and GOT (PSRC)    comeitment to reform
activities               assistance to PEs       Reports             and divestiture
Num-ber of PEs                             Minimal political
privatized:             Survey of privatized  interference.
-20 strategic/large () firrns
-e1m8y0 small/medium                        c
Share of PE sector
privatized by 2004:
- 80% of sector by total
ernployment & turnover
prdctvty)*
2.  Facilitate and promote   60% increase private    -GOT/BOT            Removal of bariers by
private sector participation  sector contribugion to  Statistics     Government to private
in the economy           GDP.(*)                                     sector participafion.
-Sample survey of
10% expansion of       privatized firms.   Promotion of
employnment.(*)                             compefition
-Sarnple survey of
20% increase in tabour   privatized firrns.
productivity. (*)
20% increase revenue
_flows to government.(*)



Page 33
3.  Widening of involvement  -Numbers of or         PSRC Reports and   Government
of Tanzanians in Business  involvement of      up-dates of PE data  comnitment to reform
broaden this ownership  Tanzanians in the                          and policies to assist
privatization process                     Tanzanian investors in
increased thru share                      place
ownership thru spin offs-
local businesses
supplying privatized
enterprises.           Privatization Trust
Reports
-Value of shares listed
4.  Provision of an effective    Reduction in the number  BOT Supervision    Banks and Financial
and efficient mechanism    and % of NPAs in the    reports, LART.  institutions commitment
for the recovery of NPAs   banking/financial system:               to recovery of NPAs and
of banks and financial  >90% of NPAs recovered                     observation of the BOT
institutions            by 2004.(*)                                prudential guidelines.
5.  Facilitate the development Creation of competitive   LART Reports and   Government continued
of private sector debt  debt management market industry survey.    commitment to
management services     industry at least 3                        transform.
capacity.               agencies, including
privatized LART,
functioning by 2004.
6.  Establish institutional  All sector specific    AG Chambers,       Government
structures and build    institutions established    Planning       commitment to an
capacity to implement                          Commission and      attractive envirornment
light, effective                               PSRC Reports        for investors and fairness
infrastructure utilities                                           to consumers
regulation when necessary.
7.  Stable Regulatory systems  All regulatory disputes    Regulatory bodies    Government's
presented by operators   reports.         understanding of
resolved within 18                        importance of
months.                                   independent regulation
and willingness to
commit to non-political
regulation
8.  Improvement of business   Over 100 firns investing  TIC/PSRC/
environment and removal  private funds into the  Company Registrar
of obstacles to investment  economy. (*)
and improvement of
country's image as a local  Over US$5.0 billion of
and Foreign Direct      investment. (*)
Investment (FDI)
Destination             Over 50 policy          GOT and
recommendations to     Consultative body
government.(*)         reports



Page 34
S.  Narrative Summary        Key Performance         Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
N                            Indicators              Evaluation
0
A. Privatization (PSRC)
1   PEs divested on "fast    More than 140 PEs      GOT/PSRC            Implementation of the
track"                  privatized                                  "Fast Track"
Procedures
2   Carryout public awareness  At least 70% of target  BOT/PSRC Reports  Commitment by
and stakeholders        group made aware                            Government to inform
communication.          through the use of mass                     and educate
media, workshops,                          stakeholders
seminars. (*)
Awareness surveys
At least 50% of the
masses made aware of the
privatizafion actions.(*)
3.  Capacity building on     Over 70% of staff trained  Training takes place  Continued commitment
privatization of PEs     and courses attended.  and skills gained are  of Government to
Focus of the training  used in transactions   divestiture programme.
program will be on     notably in the
specific "hands-on-    divestiture of
training" for privatization  utilities and
practitioners in PSRC and infrastructure PEs
related individuals in  PSRC records
other Government
stakeholder institutions.
(*)                                          .-
B. Loans and Advances
Realization Trus (LART)
1.NPA accounts with a face  Tshs. 14 billion recovered  LART Reports.   Banks commitment to
value of Tshs.40.2 billion   by 2002: Collection 20%, Recovery of NPAs.  adequate funding of
transferred to LART from   35%, 45% in 2000, 2001                   LART Tribunal.
banks for recovery.      and 2002 respectively. (*)
2.  Liquidate PEs transferred   20%, 35%, 45% of assets  LART Reports and   Adequate staffing
to LART                  of PEs sold in 2000,   PSRC Reports on    within LART.
2001, 2002             unviable PEs..
respectively.(*)
Transfer formalities  Systematic outsourcing.
completed by
September 1999



Page 35
3.  Recycling of            Number of assets       LART and PSRC      Government continued
idle/unproductive assets   recycled into the   Reports.           commitment to
economy from idel PEs   Surveys           liquidate unviable PEs.
and productive: 20%,
35%, 45% sold in 2000,
2001, 2002, 2003
respectively.(*)
4.  Facilitate development and Study on the LART and   LART Reports    Continued Government
implementation of       LART Tribunal                             conmmitment to
transition of LART.     completed by December                     Financial Sector reform.
1999.(*)
Adoption of transition
Transition strategy                       strategy by the
developed and adopted by                  Government
June 2000.(*)
Transition arrangements
and implementation-
completed bySDecember
2002.(*)
C. Infrastructure
Regulation
1.  Strengthening           More than 80% of staff   GOT/Utility      Government's
Organizational and      trained. (*)           body(ies)          understanding of
operational capacity of                                           importance of
regulatory body(ies)                                              independent regulation
and willingness to
commit to non-political
regulation
2.  Agree with Regulator s on  Depending on the sector   Regulatory body  Effective regulatory
the benchmarks for     in question, improved   updates            framework which gives
improvement, efficiency    quality and or lower costs             incentives to improve
and productivity in the  to the consumer.                          services and investment
affected sectors                                                  while promoting
Timely response of the                    competition and/or
regulatory bodies                         avoiding monopolistic
behavior
D. Private Sector
Consultative Body
1.  Establishment of        One consultative body to  GOT/PSRC         Commitment by
Consultative body       be established                            Government to involve
and utilize private
sector in the business
environment systems.
2.  Impact of Consultative  50% increase in the     GOT and
Body on improvement in   number of Consultative    Consultative Body
business environment    Body recommendations   Reports
presented to and approved
by Government. (*)



Page 36
60% increase in          Sample Stakehlders
stakeholders responding   surveys
positively to the
Consultative Body
effectiveness. (*)     I
(*) These indicators were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
S.     Narrative Summary          Key Performance        Monitoring and      Critical Assumption
No                                   Indicators            Evaluation
1   Privatization
1.1  Technical assistance to   Investment and other    Review of PSRC       Selection process is
prepare and execute       advisors hired for large   monthly reports and   efficient and
transactions              transactions to prepare   continued close    cornpetitive.
and carry out specific    supervision in
transactions            conjunction with
sectoral teams
1.2                            Training provided and
Training of PSRC and      information needs met
concerned Ministries
divestiture related staff
2  LART
Technical assistance to   Technical assistance to   Quarterly and annual See above
promote an effective and   prepare and carry out    reports
efficient mechanism for    specific activities
the recovery of NPAs of
banks and financial
institutions
3   Utility Regulation
Technical assistance to   Regulator(s) are created,  Continued close   Government is
facilitate the creation of    staffed and funded  supervision in       committed to creating
credible effective,                               conjunction with     realistic and sustainable
regulatory mechanisms                             sectoral teams       market conditions for
private sector
participation in
infrastructure and
utilities
4   Business Environment
Technical assistance to   Technical assistance to   Quarterly and annual Selection process is
improve business          prepare and carry out    reports             efficient and
environment and remove   specific activities                           comnpetitive
obstacles to investment.



Page 37
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
Tanzania: Privatization & Private Sector Development Project
Project Component 1: Support to Privatization Program - Technical Assistance and
Advisory Services for Preparation and Execution of PE Divestiture Transactions.
US$ 42.0 million
Tanzania's privatization program over the period 2000-2004 will include
completing execution of about 215 public enterprise (PE) divestiture transactions. Of
these, about 20 very large PE's are in infrastructure and utilities (10), banking (1), and
agriculture, manufacturing and services (9). In addition, there are about 50 medium size
PE's in services, agriculture and manufacturing, and the balance are generally small PE's
in the same sectors. Of this latter group, a significant number (about 30-40) are potential
candidates for liquidation.
Large PE divestiture transactions 'ill be undertaken - in terms of preparation and
execution - by competitively selected investment advisers (merchant banks and
consulting firmns), remunerated at least in part based upon a success fee. In addition,
preparation of all infrastructure and utilities PE divestiture transactions will also involve
prior preparation of pro-competitive policy and regulatory frameworks.
Medium and small PE divestitures will be handled whenever feasible bybatching
PE's into groups of five to ten enterprises, with transactions also prepared and executed
by competitively selected investment advisers. PE's slated for liquidation would be
transferred to LART for handling.
PSRC will maintain its local staff of 16 professionals who would be responsible
for overall management and execution of the implementation of the privatization
program, including supervision of the investment advisers.
In addition, PSRC will undertake a public awareness and stakeholder
communication program (funded by UK-DFID) to improve understanding and consensus
on the privatization program and its objectives. A capacity building program (including
hands-on training courses and study tours) concerning the practical techniques involved
in preparing and implementing large, complex PE divestitures - especially in
infrastructure and utilities - will be undertaken for PSRC staff, as well as for policy-
makers and officials of concerned GOT ministries and agencies.
Project Component 1 will finance : (1) costs of hiring investment, legal and
technical advisers to prepare and execute PE divestiture transactions (where not
cofinanced by other Bank- or donor-funded projects); (2) costs of PSRC's organization
and establishment, including professional staff salaries - support staff and office rental
and administrative costs would be covered by GOT; (3) technical studies on selected
policy and transaction-specific issues related to the privatization program, and
implementation of related overall policy refornms - notably on PE retrenchment and debt;
(4) costs of the capacity building program, and of the communications program; (5)



Page 38
carrying out a review and drafting new legislation on insolvency and bankruptcy.
Project Component 2: Support forLART's Program of Debt Collection for Non-
Performing Assets of Banks - Technical Assistance and Advisory Services for
Receivership and Liquidation Activities; and Support forLART's Medium Term
Conversion to a Private Debt Collection Agency. US$ 12.1 million
Project Component 2.a: Completion of LART's Program of Debt Collection for
State-owned Banks. US$ 8.8 million
Over 1999-2001, LART will have transferred to it about T.Sh58 billion (US$ 90
million equivalent) in non-performing assets (NPAs) of Tanzania's state-owned banks
(NBC, etc.), in addition to those it is already handling. In the initial years the work
volume will accelerate due to the privatization of NBC 1997 Ltd., and liquidation of
assets of the former NBC not transferred to the new bank. LART will competitively
recruit receivers and liquidators to assist in preparation and execution of debt collection
and liquidation activities with defaulters. Cases would be referred - as needed - to the
LART Tribunal, which, with its own judge and registrar, has the capacity to expedite and
ensure conmmercially aware handling of liquidation and debt collection matters.
LART will retain its current organization and establishment including its
professional staff of twenty - including an experienced team of lawyers, accountants, and
financial specialists - to manage and execute the debt collection program, and to supervise
the contracted receivers and liquidators.
Project Component 2.a will finance: (1) services of receivers andliquidators
recruited by LART; (2) cost of LART's organization and establishment, including
professional staff salaries - support staff and office rental and administrative costs would
be covered by GOT; (3) costs of the LART Tribunal's organization and establishment,
including professional salaries - LART tribunal judge and support staff and adrministrative
support would be covered by GOT. (4) debt collection and transaction-specific technical
analyses and studies.
Project Component 2.b: Support for LART Conversion into a Private Debt
Collection Company, and of LART Tribunal's Transformation into a Commercial
Court, as part of a Market-based Approach to Strengthening the Debt Collection
Market for Banks. US$ 3.3 million
Based upon feasibility studies being undertaken as part of project preparation,
during the period 1999-2001, alongside LART's continuing debt collection activities for
state-owned banks, a strategy and plan will be prepared and agreed for the conversion of
LART into a private debt collection agency as part of a broader scheme to strengthen the
debt collection market in Tanzania - for private banks and other creditors. In addition, the
LART Tribunal - which has developed considerable capacity to handle debt collection
cases on an expedited basis, due to its specialized functions and skills - could be
transformed into a specialized tribunal or an additional commercial court to augment
ongoing efforts by the judiciary to build up the commercial tribunal.



Page 39
Project Component 2.b will finance: (1) detailed technical design and
implementation preparation studies for the LART and LART Tribunal medium term
conversions, based upon the results of the feasibility studies; (2) capacity building and
training of professional staff and government officials related to the LART and LART
Tribunal conversions;  (3) related public awareness building and communication
programs.
Project Component 3 :Design and Implementation of Institutional Framework for
Infrastructure and Utilities Regulation. US$ 19.1 million
Tanzania is currently preparing the privatization of PE's and opening to private
investors and operators the markets in all its major infrastructure and utilities' sectors
over the 2000-2004 period. This includes telecommunications, power, water, ports,
railways, airlines, airports. In preparation for this, it has been decided to put in place a
pro-competitive and transparent institutional framework for regulation across these
sectors - to provide a level-playing field for determining such matters as conditions for
market entry (licensing), pricing (tariff-setting); inter-connection pricing and terms (for
network industries), dispute resolution, etc"
As part of project preparation, a detailed institutional options study was
undertaken, accompanied by extensive stakeholder consultation and awareness raising, to
reach consensus on the most appropriate institutional set-up for Tanzania - given its
limited capacity, financial resources and governance and judiciary constraints. The
options under review are: sector-by-sector, cluster, and multi-sector regulatory
organizations. Given the desire to economize on scarce skills and other resources, some
form of cross-sectoral regulatory framework is likely to emerge - possibly as one multi-
sectoral agency or two regulatory bodies (one for transport, and one for utilities) as
proposed by the consultants' study.
Once the preferred institutional set-up has been determined, a detailed feasibility
study would be undertaken to draw up the necessary legal, and institutional framework for
implementation. Professional staffing would be recruited, and international advisory
support for specific aspects of technical regulation and for training of Tanzanian
regulatory staff would be arranged to facilitate implementation. A major public education
program - for all stakeholder groups, including the general public and journalists will
bolster political commitment to the institutional arrangements. These activities would be
undertaken over a period of four to five years.
Project Component 3 will focus only on support for design and implementation
of the overall institutional framework for infrastructure and utilities' regulation. (Design
of policies and regulatory measures for specific sectors will be handled by parallel efforts
managed by the concerned sectoral ministries and supported by paralleldonor- and Bank-
funded operations as part of ongoing or planned sector reform programs.)
Project Component 3 will finance: (1) technical support and advisory services -
including international expertise - for design and implementation of the overall
institutional framework for infrastructure and utilities regulation; (2) initial start-up
institutional costs - eg., office equipment, computer and information systems; (3) initial



Page 40
years' operating costs - before fee income is sufficient to cover these; (4) capacity
building and training of Tanzanian regulators; (5) public education and conmunimication
program design and implementation.
Project Component 4: Business Environment Reform Design - Government/Private
Sector Consultative Mechanism US$ 3.6 million
The Government of Tanzania and the principal private sector representative
organizations have agreed on the need for creating an independent forum in which they
can meet to have a dialog to identify the major binding constraints to private
competitiveness and expanded private investment, employment and output and export
competitiveness. In 1998 the private sector established the Tanzania Private Sector
Foundation, TPSF, as an umbrella organization to represent all groupings and
organizations in the private sector. Discussions -are currently underway (and at an
advanced stage) for the creation of a National Business Council.
Once established, the forum would hold sessions to discuss and agree an agenda
of issues to be reviewed, conmmissioning'as needed technical studies to underpin the
dialog with up-to-date information and analysis. In addition semninars and workshops
would be held to elicit views of private sector and government representatives, to
disseminate findings and proposals, and to share experiences from other countries. Study
tours for government and private sector participants would be organized on a selective
basis to give exposure to other countries' approaches and practices. It is expected that the
forum would be results-oriented and have a limitedlifespan (of perhaps three to four
years).
Project Component 4 will finance: (1) technical studies and information-
gathering to support the activities of the government/private sector forum; (2) forum and
secretariat institutional costs, including a small professional staff - government and
private business contributions will contribute to administrative costs;  (3) capacity
building through workshops, seminars and study tours contracted to professional training
organizations; (4) a public awareness and communications program; (5) support to the
public good activities of the Tanzania Private Sector Foundation - including technical
studies, seminars and awareness raising and training.



Page 41
Annex 3
Privatization & Private Sector Development
Estimated Project Costs
1. Privatization Support                 11.70         27.72           39.43
2. Debt Collection                        1.91          9.96           11.88
3. Utilities Regulatory Design            8,70          9.53           18.24
4. Bus. Environment Improv. Design        2.81          0.48            3.29
Total Baseline C/t -   25.13        47.70          72.83
Physical & Price Contingency  2.28           1.71            3.98
Total Project ost    27.41        49.40           76.81



Page 42
Annex 4
Privatization & Private Sector Development
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ million, Base Year = FY00)
001    P 2002        2M         N
Project Costs
Investment Costs              9.87       15.98      10.34      10.52        8.34       1.99
Recurrent Costs               1.03        3.21       5.44       5.97        2.70       1.42
Total                10.90      19.19P     15.78       16.49      11.04        3.40
Financing Sources (% of Total)
IDA                           57%   w - 63%          58%        58%         60%        62%
Donors                        14%         6%          5%         6%         12%         9%
Government                    28%        30%         36%        36%         28%        30%
Total               100%       100%        100%       100%        100%       100%



Page 43
Annex 5
Tanzania: Privatization & Private Sector Development
Financial Management Assessment
1.    Background - A financial management assessment was carried out which
reviewed the current accounting systems and procedures, intemal controls, staffing and
readiness for PMR-based disbursements.  A  draft accounting, procurement and
disbursement manual which included sample PMR formats was prepared and submitted
to IDA prior to negotiations for review. The financial management assessment concluded
that although the accounting system met the minimum standards required under the
Bank's operational procedures (10.02) it was currently not capable of producing the
quarterly PMRs. Changes are being made in the computer software and modifications
will be effected to assure that the project will be able to produce PMR-based reports. An
action plan for financial management was prepared for both PSRC and LART to
incorporate the steps to be taken to transfer to PMR-based disbursements and this was
agreed upon at negotiations. The transfer to PMR-based disbursements is scheduled for
June 30, 2001.
2.    Financial Management Overview - Given the project framework, there are two
executing agencies already established (PSRC and LART). Consolidation of the
financial/accounting information and reporting to IDA of the project accounts will be
carried out by a Project Coordinator to be stationed at PSRC. LART will have its own
Special Account which it will manage on its own. A third - and potentially a fourth - will
be established in the first year of the project. The financial operations of the privatization
component and the initial establishment and initial start-up of the Regulatory and
Business Environment components of the project will be administered and managed by a
Project Coordinator appointed by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to be stationed at PSRC
Headquarters. PSRC will have a lead role in terms of maintaining IDA funds through its
Special Account to the Regulatory and Business Enviromnent components during the
initial stage of project implementation. However, it has been agreed that once initial
establishment and start-up activities of the Regulatory and Business Environment
Components are completed, each component will assume full management of their funds
received from the World Bank. Prior to that event, an assessment of their capacity will
need to be determined.
It is intended that the project's financial management system will support the
Steering Committee in their deployment of the project's resources with the purpose of
ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in achieving the desired outputs and
outcomes. The system will be able to produce timely, understandable, relevant and
reliable financial information that will enable the Steering Committee and the
implementing agencies' management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the
overall progress of the project in achieving its objectives. The World Bank is providing
guidance to both agencies on how reporting (PMRs) can be managed adequately and how
it can be used for streamlined disbursement.
3.    Fixed Assets - PSRC maintain a fixed asset register manually (through excel)
which is updated every year. The Fixed Asset register is up-todate, and all acquisition
and dispositions have been posted directly to the General Ledger. Depreciation is through
a straight-line method and all assets are recorded at their historic cost. Assets verification
is carried out annually. In order to automate asset management, a Fixed Asset module has



Page 44
been recently incorporated into PSRC's existing accounting system. LART also
maintained a fixed asset register manually, which is updated every year. The fixed asset
register is up-todate, and all acquisition and dispositions have been posted directly to the
general ledger. Depreciation is through a straight-line method and all assets are recorded
at their historic cost. Assets verification is carried annually by the external private
auditor. Similar to PSRC, LART purchased an Fixed Asset Module which was
incorporated into its accounting system.
4.    Internal Controls. - PSRC is in the process of improving its internal control
system including cash management. During appraisal, PSRC has agreed to recruit a
qualified internal auditor/accountant who will be responsible for the verifications of the
all accounting records and cash/asset management and to enhance the capacity at the
accounting unit. Among other things, PSRC has improved its intemal control procedures
by documenting it in its accounting manual which will be approved by the commission.
The controls cover in detail with the accounting system authorization process, level of
responsibilities, including all aspects of accounting, procurement, store management and
fixed assets. With respect to supervision of LART's internal control activities, this is
handled by a Senior Internal Auditor who reports directly to the Chief Administrator.
LART's internal control procedures including general administration, accounting and
operational activities are satisfactory.
5.    Financial Procedures Manuals . - PSRC's manual has been prepared and
reviewed and changes are being incorporated. It will be finalized in accordance with the
agreed action plan. LART's manual is under preparation and will be reviewed and
finalized in accordance with the agreed action plan.
6.    Reporting - Project management will be provided with monthly information on
the status of funds and on project activities. Reporting will be prepared using the PMR
formats. Annual statements will also follow this format but will include additional
schedules of supporting information and infornation on the accounting policies and notes
to the accounts. This will be reflected in the financial procedures manual. As agreed in
the action plan, PMR-based disbursements will begin on June 30, 2001
7.    External Audit - The audit of project accounts will be carried out by an
independent auditor and the audit will be in accordance with the guidelines as set out in
the Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH). The
terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.



Page 45
Annex 6
Tanzania: Privatization & Private Sector Development
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
General: Procurement of goods and services will be carried out following Annual
Procurement Plans agreed with the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan. Procurement
of goods and works will be in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under EBRD
Loans and IDA Credit" (revised January 1997 and January 1999) and procurement of
Consulting Services will be in accordance with "Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997 and revised
September 1997 and January 1999). The Bank's standard bidding documents will be
used for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Banks Standard Request for
Proposals will be used for Consulting Services. The allocation of project costs and IDA
financing by procurement method is indicated in Table A of this Annex. The
coordination of the procurement of goods and equipment, and consultant services under
the Project will be the responsibility df the Head of the Accounts Section of the
imnplementing agencies of the projects. He/she will be assisted by a procurement
specialist who will be engaged on a retainer basis as needed.  Overall Project
administrative coordination and monitoring will be assured by the PPSDP Project
Coordinator, who will be based in PSRC but will report to MOF.
Procurement Planning: A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project has
been prepared and will be published in the United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) and in local newspapers immediately prior to Board Presentation. The GPN will
be updated every year and submitted to IDA. It will show all outstanding ICB for goods
and consulting assignents. A procurement Plan was prepared by the Borrower and was
agreed upon at Negotiations. The Procurement Plan includes relevant information on all
goods, consulting services, and training under the Project as well as timing of each
milestone in the procurement process.  The management and actual status of all
procurement will be reflected in the quarterly reports which will be submitted to IDA.
The Procurement Plan will be updated annually as part of the Annual Work Plan.
Equipment and Goods: Procurement of goods and equipment is estimated at about
US 1.0 million equivalent, of which $300,000 equivalent is earmarked for procurement of
vehicles and the balance for procurement of information technology equipment will be
procured using the Bank's ICB procedures. Procurement of small items which are less
than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, which are normally available off-the shelf at
competitive prices, will be through LAPSO (UNDP) and/or prudent national/intemational
shopping procedures, based on price quotations obtained from at least three reliable
suppliers. All contracts above US$ 100,000 will be subject to IDA prior review in
accordance with Appendix I of the Guidelines.
Consultancy Services and Studies: The project will finance consultancy services for
studies, divestiture transactions, debt collection, and other technical assistance activities.
The consultancy services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants published in January 1997, revised



Page 46
September 1997 and January 1999, and using the appropriate Standard Form of Contract
for Consultants Services.
Consultant contracts will be selected competitively from among short-listed firms and
individuals based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the
quality of the proposals before comparing the cost of services to be provided. The
estimated cumulative value for such contracts will be about US$22.6 million. Existing
consultant contracts prior to the Project (in respect of PSRC and LART professionals)
will be periodically reviewed and renewed on the basis of project requirements.
Additional requirements of consultants will be based on Consultant's Qualifications
(CQ) and Individual Consultants (IC). The aggregate value of these contracts is about
US$ 10.5 million equivalent.
The Standard "Request for Proposals (RFP)"and Form of Contract as developed by the
Bank will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for
short-term assignments, i.e PSRC and LART Specialist Consultants and other short-term
consultants.  Firms would be invited to submit expressions of interest for each
assignment. Prior IDA review will apply for: (i) Terms of Reference (TOR) for all
consultancy services; (ii) small contracts to be awarded on the basis of sole source
recruitment; (iii) selection procedures, 'short-lists and request for Proposals (RFP),
qualifying technical proposals, final evaluation reports, and draft contracts when the
estimated cost of the contract exceeds US$ 50,000 for individual consultants and US$
150,000 for firm; (iv) assigmnents of a critical nature (as reasonable determined by the
Bank) for individuals and firms estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 and US$ 150,000
respectively; and (vi) contract amnendments raising the values over US$ 50,000 and US$
150,000 for individuals and firms respectively. Allconsultancy services not subject to
prior review will be subject to post review in accordance with Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines for selection of consultants. The Govermnent has been briefed about the
features of the new Consultants Guidelines (January 1997 and revised in September 1997
and January 1999), in particular with regard to advertisement and public opening.
Training: Training abroad and in-country, workshops and study tours, in total estimated
at US$ 2.2 rnillion equivalent for the entire duration of the Project, will be carried out on
the basis of IDA approved annual training programs which would identify the nature of
training/study tours/workshops, institutions where training/study tours/workshops would
be conducted (selection of Institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates, contents
of the course will be reviewed by IDA on a quarterly basis.
Disbursement Arrangements
The implementing agencies would adopt Quarterly PMR-based disbursement procedures
using the Special Account facility by December 31, 2000; in cases where country/project
circumstances warrant direct payment and/or special commitment procedures may be
allowed as may be agreed by Loan Department prior to negotiations and clearly specified
in the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 100% of expenditures on local
expenditures on a net of taxes basis - with the exception of training and incremental
operating costs (each 90%) and equipment and vehicles (60% of gross amount); and
100% of expenditures on all net-of-tax foreign expenditures for consultants services and



Page 47
training; and equipment and vehicles. As projected by Bank's standard disbursement
profiles, disbursements would be completed by four months after project closure.
Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Special Accounts: In order to ensure timely provision of funds available to finance the
costs of the project, two special accounts in the amount equivalent to the first six months
estimated expenditures will be established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. One
special account will be for LART, the other will be for PSRC and all other project
components. Funds in the special accounts will be available to finance only eligible
expenditures under the project. Before effective date, the initial amount for the six
months expenditure will be established. The Special Accounts will be replenished
through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a monthly basis and will include
reconciled bank statements and other documents as may be required until June 30, 2000
after which further deposits to the Special Accounts will be on a quarterly basis as
determined through the LACI Project Management Reporting System. All disbursement
will be channeled through SA and in lieu of Special Account, the borrower may choose to
prefinance project expenditure and seek reimbursement from IDA.
Counterpart Funds:  During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the
arrangements for establishing and operating the special and project accounts as well as an
appropriate mechanism (such as revenue retention scheme, etc.) to ensure adequate
counterpart funds.



Page 48
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangementsl
(in US$million equivalent)
Ixnditure Iae                                          teSO            Tt1 lc
Consultant Services                                      50.56               50.56
(35.80)     -      (35.80)
Training                                                  5.37       -        5.37
-              -           (2.66)      -       (2.66)
Equipment & Vehicles        0.92            0.18            -        -        1.10
(0.91)  .      (0.17)          -         -       (1.08)
Operating cost                -              -            19.78      -       19.78
(6.36)             (6.36)
Total Project Cost    0.92           0.18          75.71      -        76.81
of which IDA Funded by:    (0.91)          (0.17)        (44.82)     -       (45.90)
PPSDP ___
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement,
and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items
listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained
in footnotes to the table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement
Arrangements for Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more
easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Page 49
Annex 6
Table Al Procurement Methods for Consultant Selection
(in US$million equivalent)
A. Firms                             0.03               36.54             36.57
(0.03)             (25.00)           (25.03)
B. Individuals                       13.38               0.61             13.99
(10.31)             (0.46)           (10.77)
Total                                13.40              37.16             50.56
= _________________________       (10.34)            (25.46)            (35.80)
Note:   QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), etc..
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 50
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
1. Goods                       Above 100                  ICB                    All
50 to 100                 NIS                PostReview
2. Services                    Above 150                 QCBS                     All
50 to 150           QCBS/CQ/Other                 All    I/
Below 50            QCBS/CQ/Other             Post Review
Total Estimnated Value of Contracts Subject to Prior                                 28.00
Review
1/ This amount includes contracts of PSRC and LART staff
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 51
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
1. Consultant Services & Training     36.45                   100% net of tax
2. Equipment & Vehicles                1.08        100% of Foreign Expenditures & 60% of
Local Expenditures
3. Incremental Operating Cost          6.36              90% of Local Expenditures
4. Refunding of PPF                    2.00
Total                   45.90



Page 52
Annex 7
Privatization & Private Sector Development
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$290,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            05/18/1998            05/18/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    03/22/1999            04/25/1999
Negotiations                                   05/03/1999              10/04/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/20/1999
Prepared by: Parastatal Sector Reform Conmmission, and LART.
Preparation assistance: PPF Q-073-0-TA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Paul Ballard                            Task Team Leader
Elizabeth Adu                            Principal Counsel
Hovsep Melkonian                        Sr. Disbursement Officer
Brian Falconer                       Principal Financial Specialist
Luke Haggarty                          Privatization Specialist
Michael Warlters                         Regulatory Specialist
Rey Castro                             Operations Specialist
Vedasto Rwechungura                        Operations Specialist
Alfonso Revollo                Senior Adviser, Private Sector Development
Olivier Fremond                         Privatization Specialist
Alberto Chong                          Labor Market Specialist
Mercy Sabai                       Financial Management Specialist
V. Krishnakumar                         Procurement Specialist
Pascal Tegwa                            Procurement Analyst
John Nellis                Privatization Specialist, Quality Assurance Team
Yves Duvivier                Regulation Specialist, Quality Assurance Team
Arvind Gupta                 Private Sector Development Specialist, Quality
Assurance Team
Iain Christie              Lead Private Sector Specialist, Quality Assurance
Team
Fannie E. Goll                          Task Team Assistant



Page 53
Annex 8
Privatization & Private Sector Development
Documents in the Project File*
A. Draft Project Implementation Plans (PSRC & LART)
Draft Procedures Manual (PSRC)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoire of Bank Pre-Appraisal Mission, May 24, 1998
Aide-Memoire of Bank Technical Mission on Privatization Process and
Procedures, November 6, 1998
Aide-Memoire of Bank Technical Mission on PE Retrenchment Policy Analysis
and Options, November/December 1998.
Aide-Memoire of Bank Appraisal Mission, May 14, 1999
C. Other
" Impact of Privatization in Tanzania" (July, 1999) consultants' report for PSRC
" Policy Solutions for Parastatal Debt Study" -Final Report (February, 1999) -
consultants' report commissioned by GOT/PSRC
"Tanzania Parastatal Retrenchment Policy Options Study" - Final Report
(January 1999) - consultants' report commissioned by GOT/PSRC.
"Examination of Options for a Regulatory Institutional Framework for Tanzania"
- Preliminary Report (September, 1999)- consultants' report commissioned by
GOT/PSRC.
*Including electronic files.



Page 54
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tanzania
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions            and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year           Borrower                Purpose
IBRD       IDA    Cancellatio  Undi          Orig    Frm
ns       sbur         Rev'd
sed
Number of Closed Projects: 97
Active Projects
TZ-PE-47761    1999                            TAX ADMINISTRATION              0.00      40.00      0.00      38.27       0.00      0.00
TZ-PE-2789     1998   GOVT                     HUMAN RESOURCE DEV 1            0.00      20.90      0.00      14.68       1.50      0.00
TZ-PE-2804     1998   GOVT                     AGRIC RESEARCH                  0.00      21.80      0.00      19.94         .63     0.00
TZ-PE-2753     1997   GOVT                     NAT EXT PROJ PH.II              0.00      31.10      0.00      19.82       7.42      0.00
TZ-PE-2821     1997                            SAC I                           0.00    131.50       0.00      24.15      24.98    27.46
TZ-PE-36570    1997   GOVERNMENT               RIVER BASIN MGM.SMAL            0.00      26.30      0.00      17.41       4.39      0.00
TZ-PE-46837    1997   GOVT OF TANZANIA         LAKE VICTORIA ENV.              0.00      10.10      0.00       6.98       1.57      0.00
TZ-PE-2758     1996   GOVT                     URBAN SECTOR REHAB              0.00    105.00       0.00      76.50      16.21      0.00
TZ-PE-2812     1995                            MINERAL SECTOR DEV.             0.00      12.50      0.00       2.97       1.41      0.00
TZ-PE-2770     1994   GOVERNMENT               ROADS II                        0.00    170.20       0.00    146.15      142 95      0.00
TZ-PE-2801     1994   GOT                      ASMP                            0.00      24.50      2.48       5.87       5.70      0.00
TZ-PE-2756      1993   MINISTRY OF ENERGY   POWER VI                           0.00    200.00       0.00      37.48      15.32      0.00
TZ-PE-2780     1993   GOVT.OF TANZANIA         TELECOM III                     0.00      74.45      0.00      15.57      16.15    16.07
TZ-PE-2788     1993   GOVT OF TANZANIA         PRIV. PUB. SECT. MGT            0.00      34.90      0.00       2.73         .66     0.00
TZ-PE-2817     1993                            FIN.& LEGAL MGT PROJ            0.00      20.00       .68       3.87       4.07      2.58
TZ-PE-2757     1991   GOVT.                    RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI            0.00      76.00    10.97       18.33      25.43    -1.80
TZ-PE-2786     1991   GOVT                     PETROL REHAB                    0.00      44. 00     0.00      14.77      12.60    12.29
TZ-PE-2784      1990   GOVT                    PORTS MODERNIZATION             0.00      37.00      0.00       8.05       4.72      0.00
Total                                                                          0.00  1,080.25    14.13    471.54        285.71    56.60
Active        Closed            Total
Projec     Projects
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 58      2,391.59        2,978.20
of which has been repaid:                           481.47          481.47
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,06      1,881.97        2,948.08
Amount sold                                                  6.29            6.29
Of which repaid                                          6.29            6.29
Total Undisbursed                :              47          43.86         515.40
a.       Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at
appraisal.
Note:   Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently
as of 30-Jun-99.



Page 55
Annex 10
Country at a Glance
*          GNP pertlasd me  bsmthod, USblnS)                        20        50        72                     tepcrnyl1
a  |            A~~Larlwor 9forcme (58)agot   919                        2.9        2.6       2.3    |GNP                                G nmross    
Mo.cst re ent estimate $ateTt year available, 1991.97)                               |capita                        erlonlmr9t
URTa   and SCA Sf _ar pop                                24         32        28L'w,
Ut. expectancy at blr9r (years)anza51                  52ic      59oe    Dveomn daod
CPopd anurtionrrdya (m4 of hlrn  ude                     28.       614     2614                 Uccexpocstencaty
"',....~~.   ~GNPeps .pto sAte ale (8hof poUS$i)                      410         44        710
Nliteracy (Al  of populthon ageS 15+)                     39        43        722
roeneraigN-nnue~o nnual-mpo groth 83.4 75 9
PopGr oss p   er) of godsanlsave              2n                         17      4 2.           T
L Th Maoe                                                          W 82      10              -       are 2ig, u* dmonss
Pemale                            69         87       81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pr                    Omr
Infan (mSrbalitny (pr..ebits                              7.5        5.0       678
Espd melnugotoandseofchrcen/                    ..de    7. 8      21.5cssto23f.2lo
K'  ~~~~  Glromtrrac    opuationa  aai gs/OP. 15.9 3                              1.9       47.1aza
Gros rimtaccenontblamnci%oG  choP        poultin        -3.       -78.      -12.
Ineraes paret/GP9 .                                               1.7       81.5     OmscIvsmn
KEYECONOMICRATIOSandLONG-TERMTRENDS ~         ~        ~         avirg
TotalUS ebillGoPns.                                     81.5     12.7
Trotal doesbtseavineisorlP                     6.       3.7       23.1       2.
To reetvaludet'P ofdbtGP.                                      ..     412.9
Present value of debt/exPo                      4.        .        10.0
Present value of debVexports            210.0                            ~~~~~~~Indebtedness
11976-8   1987-97    1998       1997   i999-02
ava   annual gmwth)                                                                                                           S
.....l,,i,,/.  GDP                                          2.9       4.1       3.9       5 5             -Tanzania
'"',~~'.'..  GP per 0  pita1.3                                        1.7        1.3       2.5             -Low-4'rcome group               ~ -'~
~  tExports ofgoods and services            ..     13.5     14.2       18.6       6.0
-The~        STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(94 of GOP)                      ~~~~~ ~~~1976  1996  1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investmnent I%l
Agriculture                                      .      58.4      47.       476       3
'..   ' i~~ ~lndustry                                        ..       95        13.9      14.2
"iManufacturing                                          6.1        7.25      7.3
Services                                 3~~~~~~~~2.1  38.5   38.0 
K"                                                              .. ~~Prvtecnsmtin75.1  82.4  77.5    2
G-eneral government consumption                  .      15.0      13.2       9 9-0                            ~     0
Imports of gwd   md servicm              19.9       36.2      30.1     ~
1976-86  1987.97       1998      1 997     Growrth rates of exrp rts an d irpo rts
(average annual growth)
&ri Agriculture                                      ..      3.4        4.9       3.9 
'~~~~' ~~~Industry                                                .       2.4        2.5       3~9 
Manufacturing-                                                                -
services                                                 2 .4       3.2      329      ro
--~  Prvate consumption                               ..      3.0       4.4          - 
*    O,Geeal government cornsumption                ..     -1.3     -1 2.2                      92   33   54    9       n    3 ~
4Gross domestic investment                       .       -0.7      -0.1       0.0   .1
~~,      ; ..'~~~"   Imports of gends and services                         2.4       -1.1      -0.7              '-'EoPorte           Iwmort
     Gross national product                           .       4.4        4.6       4.2
a*~'Nt: 1997 dat are prelminary ectlmates.
dimnsshow loLu key indicatorm in mhe countr (in bald) compared With its income-roup average. It data are missing, the dIamond vAl
The World Bank






MAP SECTION






. 30' UG-                                     -      - .   0                                              38'           3D 8
Lake i Victoria
/1, ukobsa          M-um           - <
(   RWANDA                                                          i'  "                                         KENYA
zoo S  /    <)   ( tE   i>S                       Notron                               AFRICA                              A
Arusho          Moh'
BURUNDI                                            ''ak'
S   -    hinyonga      Lake       /tk                             \                   /Manyora  K
-4~~   ~~             , t                                                       R. Iyes K:  .4   ..-,  
en ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~4
4t   ( Kioa    . n              .          Toboro zlA  .           EX    Singidoa
*  Tono
V \= < ,9)S<Tanganyk
The boundorres, Colors,                                Mboyo        >-.---o---'-tX3-r----,-- ,                    '            _bbr
\  '                   v               "                  ~~~~~~~~~~                                               ~ ~ ~~~Reservo  I1>g    NDIAN-
Tanganyik'                                                                                             R-h R      ; 
The b-udr.-ie, coos                            -Mbeyc 3<        gv
denom-i-sorns and ony
ons 1hi sssop  do  not         /           4'A.j ;/, Q
nnp/y, 00 the pont o/
Th. World Bonk Go.up,
ossy jodgosoot 00 the lgol
rtatus of oa'y t-tnitony,
or any endorsement tA 17AL11A
or occeptooce of soh cTANZ                     N I
-10'
MAIN ROADS                  (3   REGION CAPITALS
+   RAILROADS                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS                                REGION BOUNDARIES                    .LSongea
-     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
m                                                loo           200r                                                                                                                -t1
K0
10                                                                                                                                   38~~~~~~~~~010  0
`0                    30M                                                                                       36    '                                  ..LV-ust



