Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3304-TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization and Private Sector Development Project)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 20, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3304-TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 2000, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has obtained or intends to obtain from various donors 
(hereinafter called the Cofinanciers) grants and loans to assist in cofinancing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth or to be set forth in various agreements 
(hereinafter called the Cofinancing Agreements) entered into or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BOT” means the Bank of Tanzania established pursuant to the Bank of 
Tanzania Act, No. 12 of 1965 as amended; 
(b)
“Consultative Body” means the consultative body comprised of the Borrower 
and private sector representatives to be established pursuant to Part D of the 
Project; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower which commences on 
July 1 and ends on June 30 of the year immediately following; 
(d)
“LART” means the Loans and Advances Realization Trust established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Loans and Advances Realization Trust Act, No. 6 of 1991; 
(e)
“LART Tribunal” means the tribunal established by the Borrower pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Loans and Advances Realization Trust Act, No. 6 of 1991, to 
adjudicate on disputes related to collection by LART of non-performing assets of the 
State-Owned Banks (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(g)
“NBC 1997” means the National Bank of Commerce 1997 Limited established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s National Bank of Commerce Act, No. 21 of 1997; 
(h)
“Privatization Program” means the program to be carried out by the 
Borrower under Part A.1 of the Project; 
(i)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be prepared by the 
Borrower under Part A.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(j)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
October 24, 1997 and November 13, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association;
(m)
“PSRC” means the Borrower’s Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform 
Commission established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Public Corporations 
(Amendment) Act No. 16 of 1993, as amended to date;
(n)
“Regulatory Body” means any regulatory body to be established pursuant to 
Part C of the Project; 
(o)
“State-Owned Bank” means any financial institution in which the Borrower 
has an ownership interest; 
(p)
“State-Owned Enterprise” means any enterprise, including a financial 
institution, in which the Borrower has an ownership interest and which has been 
Page  3
selected for privatization under Part A.1 of the Project, or liquidation under Part 
B.1 of the Project; 
(q)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(r)
“Implementing Agency” means PSRC, LART, a Regulatory Body or the 
Consultative Body; 
(s)
“Steering Committee” means the Borrower’s Steering Committee for the 
Project referred to in Part B.5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(t)
“Tanzania Shillings” means the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 33,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment, two separate 
special deposit accounts, namely the PSRC Special Account and the LART Special 
Account. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 2010 and ending October 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2019, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and management practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultant services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a)
open and maintain an account in Tanzania 
Shillings in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an 
amount equivalent to $1,250,000, to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the costs 
of the Project; 
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, on a quarterly basis, the 
amount required to replenish the Project Account up to the Borrower's contribution to 
the costs of the Project as specified in the annual work programs referred to in 
paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and  
(d)
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on the said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures; 
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the Public Corporations 
(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1993, and the Loans and Advances Realization Trust Act, No. 
6 of 1991, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of PSRC or LART, respectively, to perform 
any of their obligations under the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: the Borrower has furnished the Project Implementation 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; the Borrower has 
furnished to the Association an annual work plan, satisfactory to the Association, 
Page  7
covering the period January 1, 2000, through June 30, 2001; the Borrower has opened 
the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) of this Agreement; and the Public Corporations (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 
1993, has been further amended to extend the mandate of the PSRC to at least December 
31, 2004. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Oey Meesook 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Page  8
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
100%
services:
(a) Under Part A
  16,600,000
of the Project
(b) Under Part B
   3,050,000
of the Project
(c) Under Part C
   3,150,000
of the Project
(d) Under Part D 
     200,000
of the Project
(2)
Training:
90%
(a) Under Part A
    200,000
of the Project
(b) Under Part B
     50,000
of the Project
(c) Under Part C
  1,450,000
of the Project
(d) Under Part D
    100,000
of the Project
(3)
Equipment and
100% of foreign
vehicles:
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(a) Under Part A
    550,000
of the Project
(b) Under Part B
     50,000
of the Project
(c) Under Part C
    100,000
of the Project
(d) Under Part D
     50,000
of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating
  4,600,000
90% 
costs
(5)
Refunding
  1,500,000
Amount due 
of Project
pursuant to
Preparation 
Section 2.02 (c)
Page  9
Advance
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  1,650,000
TOTAL
 33,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenditures 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of 
staff of a Regulatory Body, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
3,300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 1, 1999; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (c), (2) (c) and 
(3) (c) until the Borrower has established a Regulatory Body with functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (d), (2) (d), and (3) 
(d) until the Consultative Body has been established with functions and resources 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts costing in the case of: (i) consultant firms less than $150,000 equivalent 
each; and (ii) individual consultants less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of 
its privatization program and private sector development program.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Privatization Program  
1.
The carrying out of a program to divest the Borrower of about two hundred 
State-Owned Enterprises through the preparation and execution of divestiture 
transactions. 
2.
The carrying out of technical and policy studies (including studies on 
retrenchment, debt collection, establishment and initial operation of the Consultative 
Body, the establishment of a privatization trust fund, and pricing policies for each 
sector) to examine, and improve on, the general implementation of the Privatization 
Program. 
3.
The strengthening of the capacity of the Borrower to carry out the Privatization 
Page  10
Program through the provision of training and technical advisory services to PSRC and 
staff of PSRC and to other staff of the Borrower involved in the Privatization 
Program. 
4.
The carrying out of a public awareness and stakeholder communication program to 
improve the general public’s understanding and acceptance of the objectives and 
benefits of the Privatization Program. 
5.
The carrying out a review of and drafting new legislation on insolvency and 
bankruptcy.
6.
The carrying out of a review of the options for the establishment of an 
institutional framework for the regulation of private sector markets for the provision 
of infrastructure and utilities services. 
7.
Preparation of drafts of the laws and regulations required to give effect to 
recommendations of the review carried out under Part A.6 of the Project.
Part B:
LART 
1.
(a)
The collection of non-performing assets of the State-Owned Banks and 
liquidation of non-performing State-Owned Enterprises. 
(b)
The carrying out of a communication and public awareness program to 
explain to the general public the need for, and the proposed objectives of, LART and 
the LART Tribunal. 
(c)
The strengthening of the capacity of LART and the LART Tribunal to carry 
out their mandate through the provision of technical advisory services, staff training 
and acquisition of computer and other office equipment. 
2.
The carrying out of a review of the future roles and functions of LART and the 
LART Tribunal Project in order to determine the optimal strategy LART and the LART 
Tribunal. 
3.
The carrying out of a transition strategy for LART and the LART Tribunal based 
upon the recommendations of the review referred to in Part B.2 of the Project.
Part C:
Institutional Framework for Infrastructure and Utilities Regulation 
Establishment and maintenance of a Regulatory Body to regulate, as needed, 
private sector markets for the provision of infrastructure and utilities services. The 
carrying out of reviews of sector-specific laws and regulations, as well as 
implementation arrangements, if any. Design and implementation of a public awareness 
and communication program to explain to the general public the need for, and the 
objectives and mandate of, the Regulatory Body to be established pursuant to Part C.1 
of the Project. 
4.
Strengthening the organizational and operational capacity of the Regulatory Body 
through the provision of technical advisory services, staff training, and the 
acquisition of computer and other equipment for the Regulatory Body.
Part D:
Design of Business Environment Reform 
Establishment and operation of a Consultative Body which shall be an independent 
forum for the discussion, consideration and addressing of constraints to investment, 
employment, output, exports and competitiveness in the private sector. Design and 
implementation of a public awareness and communication program to explain to the 
general public the need for, and the objectives of, and issues to be dealt with by, 
the Consultative Body.
5.
Strengthening the capacity of the Consultative Body to carry out its mandate 
through: (a) the provision of technical advisory services; (b) provision of training 
to staff and members of the Consultative Body including, among other things, the 
holding of workshops, seminars and study tours; and (c) the carrying out of technical 
studies and information gathering activities to provide the Consultative Body with the 
information which it will require for the efficient carrying out of its functions and 
responsibilities. 
Page  11
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and 
January 1999, (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured from IAPSO under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  12
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultant services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The 
shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
Page  13
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$150,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
The following shall be submitted to the Association for prior review and 
approval before the contracts to which they relate are awarded: (i) terms of reference 
for all consultant services; (ii) each single-source selection of consultants; (iii) 
the selection procedures, shortlists and requests for proposals, qualifying technical 
proposals, final evaluation reports and draft contracts in any case in which the 
estimated cost of the contract exceeds the equivalent of: (A) $50,000 for an 
individual consultant, or (B) $150,000 for a consulting firm; (iv) assignments of a 
critical nature (as reasonably determined by the Association) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of: (A) $50,000 for an individual consultant, or (B) $150,000 for a 
consulting firm, and (v) contract amendments raising the estimated cost of a contract 
over an amount equivalent to: (A) $50,000 for an individual consultant, or (B) 
$150,000 for a consulting firm. The related contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Part A:
Project Implementation Manual
1.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, an implementation 
manual for the Project, satisfactory to the Association. The manual shall set out: (i) 
an implementation plan for the Project; (ii) operations procedures for PSRC and LART; 
(iii) details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements under the Project; (iv) 
performance indicators for the Project; (v) operations procedures for the Regulatory 
Body and Consultative Group, once they have been established; and (vi) such other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as shall be required. 
2.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual, and shall not, except as the Association may 
otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof.
Part B:
Institutional and Regulatory Arrangements 
1.
(a)
PSRC shall be responsible for the implementation of Part A of the 
Project. 
(b)
PSRC shall carry out its operations in accordance with its Operational 
Guidelines and Procedures Manual; 
(c)
For the purposes of said Part A, the Borrower shall, by January 31, 2000, 
adopt a policy framework and operational guidelines acceptable to the Association 
which shall provide for the application of consistent principles across divestiture 
transactions for the retrenchment of public enterprise employees;
Page  14
(d)
The Borrower shall continue to maintain: 
(i)
its privatization proceeds account in a form acceptable to the 
Association; and 
(ii)
PSRC as the administrator of said account.
(e)
The Borrower shall cause PSRC to: 
(i)
have the account referred to in subparagraph (d) of this paragraph 
audited each 
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.  
(f)
The Borrower shall, by January 31, 2000, adopt a policy framework and 
operational guidelines, acceptable to the Association, for the treatment by PSRC of 
public enterprise debt which shall provide for consistent and timely debt resolution, 
as needed, for divestiture transactions involving the State-Owned Banks. 
2.
(a)
LART shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of said Part B, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
by March 15, 2000, cause to be transferred in a timely manner to 
LART for 
collection such non-performing assets from NBC 
1997 and other State-Owned Banks 
that need to be liquidated in 
order to complete the financial restructuring and 
sale of NBC 
1997; and 
(ii)
by June 30, 2001, (A) complete the review of the future role and 
functions of LART 
and the LART Tribunal required under Part B.2 of the 
Project, and (B) adopt, on the 
basis of the findings of the said 
review, an appropriate transition strategy for 
LART and the 
LART Tribunal as required under said Part B.2. of the Project.
3.
(a)
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
by July 31, 2000, adopt operational guidelines and procedures 
manual, acceptable to 
the Association, for the Regulatory Body 
responsible for the economic regulation of 
infrastructure and 
utilities in the Borrower’s territories; 
(ii)
by October 31, 2000, adopt and commence the implementation of a 
capacity building 
and staff development program, acceptable to 
the Association, including the 
provision, as needed, of 
international technical advisory services; and 
(iii)
by June 30, 2001 adopt and undertake a program, acceptable to the 
Association, of 
educating the general public on the economic 
regulation of infrastructure and 
utilities. 
(b)
For the purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall facilitate 
the establishment of the Consultative Body and a small secretariat, in a form and with 
functions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the preparation of 
progress reports on the work of the Consultative Body and the provision of accounting 
and auditing services thereof.
Page  15
(c)
The functions of the said secretariat shall of the Consultative Body. 
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain, in a form and with functions satisfactory to 
the Association, its Steering Committee. The Steering Committee shall be responsible 
for overseeing the supervision of the Project.
(b)
Except as otherwise agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, 
the chairman of the Steering Committee shall be the Principal Secretary of MOF, and 
its membership shall include: (i) the Permanent Secretary in the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Planning and Parastatal Reform; (ii) the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice 
and Constitutional Affairs; (iii) the Chairman of PSRC; (iv) the Chief Administrator 
of LART; and (v) the Governor of BOT. 
(c)
PSRC shall serve as the secretariat to the Steering Committee, which 
shall meet at least once each quarter to review progress made in the carrying out of 
the Project and make appropriate decisions on Project implementation.
5.
MOF shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation of 
the Project and shall, to this end, ensure that quarterly reports are promptly: (i) 
prepared by each Implementing Entity for its respective component or components of the 
Project, (ii) discussed by the Steering Committee, and (iii) thereafter forwarded to 
the Association.
Part C:
Annual Work Plans and Reviews
1.
The Borrower shall, as from January 1, 2000:
(a)
prepare and furnish, or cause to be prepared and furnished, to the 
Association, by March 31 in each year, a draft annual work plan for each Part of the 
Project for the following Fiscal Year. 
(i)
Each such plan shall include but not be limited to: (i) an 
evaluation of 
consultants' performance; and 
(ii)
a detailed training plan for the following Fiscal Year, taking 
into account 
experience in the previous Fiscal year; 
(b)
not later than one month thereafter, review with the Association such 
annual work plan; 
(c)
not later than June 30 in each year, furnish, or cause to be furnished, 
to the Association the finalized work plan acceptable to the Association; and 
(d)
thereafter, carry out the Project in accordance with the finalized work 
plan.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about August 31 in each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by November 30 in each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of 
this paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the 
Page  16
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, with respect to: (i) the PSRC 
Special Account, Categories (1) (a), (c), (d), (2) (a), (c), (d), (3) (a), (c), (d) 
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (ii) 
the LART Special Account, Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b) set forth in the 
said table; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, with respect to: (i) the PSRC 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000; and (ii) the LART Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $500,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the PSRC Special Account or, as the case may be, the LART Special 
Account, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account concerned such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
Page  17
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account concerned;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account concerned as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
