Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6965-BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
JULY 15, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bulgariani LEV (plural Leva)
Average Value of US$1.00 in Leva
1993          28.00
1994          53.73
1995          67.18
January    1996          72.58
February   1996          74.52
March      1996          77.96
April      1996          81.55
May        1996         110.73
June       1996         142.16
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNIS
BDZ           =       National Railway Company
BNB           =      Bulgarian National Bank
CAS           =       Country Assistance Strategy
CCCF          =       Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility
CMEA                  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR          =      Debt and Service Reduction Loan
EBRD          =       Eul-opean Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           =       EuLopeall Investment Bank
EU            =       European Union
FESAL         =       Financial Enterprise and Sector Adjustment Loan
FIA           =      Foreign Investment Agency
FIAS          =      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP           =       Gross Domestic Product
IFC           =       International Finance Corporation
IFI           =       International Financial Institutions
ILO                   International Lahor Organization
IMF           =       International Monetary Fund
JEXIM          =      Japan Export Import Bank
LIBOR         =       London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MIGA          =       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance
MOU           =       Memoranda of Understanding
MPP           =       Mass Privatization Program
NES           =       National Employment Service
PSA           =       Private Sector Assessment
SAL           =       Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE           =       State-Owned Enter-prise
SSB           =       State Savings Bank
TAM           =       Turn Arouncd Management
UDF           =      Union of Democratic Forces
UNDP          =       United Nations Development Program
URF           =      Unemployment and Retaining Fund
USAID         =      United States Aid for International Development



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TH4E INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
CONTENTS
Loan Summary ..................................................... i
Introductory Siimmary .        ................................................ I
I. THE ECONOMY   .            ................................................ 2
Background  .        ................................................  2
Recent Developments ............................................ 3
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM  OF STABILIZATION AND REFORM   ....                           ......  4
Macroeconomic Program    ........................................  4
Financing Requirements   .........................................  5
Enterprise Reforms    ................     I           .........................  6
Banking and Sector Reforms   ...................................... 10
III. THE PROPOSED PLAN    .......................................... 12
Objectives and Description   ......................................   12
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy  ...........................   13
Loan Administration   ..........................................   14
Benefits and Risks   ............................................ 15
IV. BANK OPERATIONS   ...........................................   16
Bank's Assistance Strategy   ......................................   16
Portfolio Implementation  ......................................... 17
Previous Adjustment Operations  ...................................   17
Creditwr,tihines   ............           .................................   18
Role of IFC, MIGA and FIAS .....................................   19
V. COORDINATION WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS
AND OFFICIAL DONORS ....................................... 20
VI. RECOMMENDATION    ........................................... 22
ANNEXES.
Annex 1:  Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2:  Government's Action Plan Policy Matrix
Annex 3:  Buigaria at a Glance
Annex 4:  National Accounts
Annex 5:  Exports and Imports
Annex 6:  Balance ot Payments
Annex 7:  External Debt Stocks and Flows
Annex 8:  Public Finance
Annex 9:  Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 10: Timetable for Key Processing Steps
MAP
dhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
orcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wikhout World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic Bulgaria
Amount:                US$30 million equivalent
Terms:                 Twenty years maturity with a five-year grace period, at the Bank's single
currency LIBOR based floating interest rates in US dollars.
Program Objectives:   ro support the initial phase of the government's new stabilization and
reform program. The program aims to stabilize the economy and promote
the development of the private sector by reducing fiscal deficits, increasing
administered prices, controlling growth of credit, privatizing, liquidating
and restructuring state enterprises and reforming the banking sector.
Loan Description:      The loan will help finance the initial costs of the program, which will entail
additional social safety net expenditures. The loan will be disbursed in a
single tranche upon effectiveness based on the measures already taken by the
Government.
Benefits:              To support the initial phase of the reform program, the proposed Loan
would assist the Government to mitigate the adverse social impact resulting
from the job displacement of workers. Rapid introduction of the program is
critical to help restore domestic and international confidence and help stem
the current banking and foreign exchange crises. The restructuring and
liquidation of loss-making state economic enterprises would reduce fiscal
deficits reduce the losses of banks stemming from the poor financial
conditions of the enterprises, and would release resources to more
productive purposes thereby enhancing overall economic growth. It would
improve the viability of the banking system and stengthen the framework in
which private sector investment can flourish thus promoting the final
objectives of the proposed loan.
Risks:                 Because of the crisis situation in Bulgaria, any lending operation at this
point carries significant risks. There are essentially three classes of risks
confronting the proposed loan: a continued deterioration of the financial
crisis; political instability; and failure to proceed with the reform program.
Unless the Government continues to pursue aggressively the program
recently announced, economic stability and growth prospects in the country
will diminish further.
Rate of Return:        N.A.
Poverty Category:      N.A.
Appraisal Report:      N. A.
Estimated
Disbursements:         US$30 million equivalent
Schedule of
Disbursements:         1996 - US$ 30 million equivalent
Financing Plan:        N.A.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Rehabilitation Loan to the Republic of Bulgaria for the equivalent of US$30 million to
support the initial phase of the government's new stabilization and reform program. The
loan would be made at the Bank's single currency LIBOR based floating interest rates in US
dollars, with maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
Introductory Summary
2.    The proposed loan is part of a sequential approach to assist the Government of
Bulgaria to develop and implement a macroeconomic stabilization and reform program to
deal with the economic crisis currently afflicting the country.
3.    The approach, which was described in the recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
and discussed with the Board of Executive Directors on April 9, 1996, has three parts:
(i) technical assistance from the Bank, the IMF and other donors to help the Government of
Bulgaria design a reform program to address the lack of financial discipline in state
enterprises, weakness in the banking system, and accelerate the privatization process; (ii) a
rapid small-scale financial support, with no net increase in exposure to the Bank, upon
adoption of a sound program by the Government (overall Bank commitments will not
increase due to a decision during a CPPR in April to cancel part of another operation, which
was experiencing implementation problems); and (iii) a Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL) of up to US$200 million upon actual implementation of the
reform program. The first phase of this sequential approach is now complete. With Bank
and IMF advisory support, the Gov,crnment of Bulgaria has adopted a satisfactory reform
program. The proposed Rehabilitation Loan presented here is part of phase two. This
operation recognizes the immediate need for fiscal support as laid-off workers begin claiming
severance payments. Preparations for the FESAL are underway and would be presented to
the Board upon completion of key reform measures.
4.    The Bank's assistance strategy is part of a concerted effort by the Bank and other
international financial organizations and official donors to help the Government of Bulgaria
deal with the current economic crisis. Both the IMF and the European Union have pledged
their support, and the IMF Board is expected to approve a Standby Arrangement of US$590
million equivalent in the middle of July. There is close coordination between the IMF and
the Bank, with the IMF leading the technical assistance for banking reforms and the Bank for
state enterprise restructuring. Other donors, such as EBRD, USAID, and EU-PHARE are
also supporting the Government's efforts to restructure, close or privatize state enterprises
and to reform the banking sector.



^2-
1. THE ECONOMY
Background
5.      The Country Assistance Strategy (15423-BUL) discussed with the Board of Executive
Directors on April 9, 1996, presented a background summary of the economic developments
in Bulgaria, highlighting the fragility of conditions in the country. The CAS noted, as shown
in Table 1, that although the economic conditions had begun to improve in 1994 and 1995,
after a deep recession, underlying problems of the economy had not been addressed and
remained unresolved. The document expressed concern that without more forceful measures
by the Government to deal with the problems confronting the economy, there was a risk of
further deterioration of conditions in the country. Since the discussion of the CAS, the
financial crisis has deepened. In May 1996, with extensive advice from the Bank and the
Fund, the Government announced and began to implement a far-reaching macroeconomic
stabilization and reform program to deal with the fundamental problems of the economy.
Tahle 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
lI ____________________________________        1   1992       1993       1994       1995    Est. 19961
Real Economy
GDP Growth                                           -6.0      -4.2        1.4        2.0        0.0
Inflation (CPI annual average)                      83.0       73.0       96.0       63.0       69.0
Inflation (CPI end-period)                          79.0       64.0      122.0       34.0      105.0
Nominal Exchange Rate (Leva/USS)                    23.3       27.6       53.7       67.8      123.0
Unemployment Rate                                    15.3      16.3       14.0       11.4       15.1
Investment and Savings (% of GDP)
Gross Domestic Investment                            19.4      20.1       19.2       19.3       18.3
Gross Domestic Savings                               18.8      10.7       20.9       25.8       25.5
Balance of Payments (% of GDP)
Exports GNFS                                        57.8       45.2       53.2       52.8       55.5
Imports GNFS                                        61.3       53.7       53.1       47.8       49.8
Resource Balance                                     -3.5      -8.5        0.2        5.0        5.7
Current Account Balance                             -4.9      -10.1       -0.2        2.2        3.0
Balance of Payments (USS million)
Current Account Balance                           -424.2   -1098.1        -17.8     277.0      341.8
Capital Account                                    832.2      783.1      227.3      153.0    -595.4
Direct Foreign Investment                        42.0       55.0      100.0       82.0     100.0
Net Long Term Borrowing                         322.2        8.7      475.6    -118.0    -233.4
Other Capital Flows                             468.0      719.4    -348.3       189.0    -462.0
Change in net International Reserves           -408.0      315.0    -209.5    -430.0       253.6
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Total Revenue                                        38.3       37.2       40.2       36.0      36.3
Total Expenditure                                    45.4      48.1       46.0        41.7      41.0
Social Security                                  14.1       15.1       13.0       10.9       10.7
Interest                                          6.4        9.4       13.5       14.3      15.4
Other Current                                    22.2       21.7       17.8       15.4       13.8
Capital                                           2.8        1.9        1.6        1.1        1.1
Primary Balance 1/                                    1.3      -1.6         7.7        8.6      10.7
Fiscal Balance                                       -7.1      -10.9      -5.8       -5.7       -4.7
1/ Including Bulgarian National Bank transfers.
Source: NSI, Sofia, and World Bank Staff Estimates.



-3-
6.    Bulgaria's basic problems stem from a large state enterprise sector that has been
generating significant losses for many years. These losses have been financed by a weak
state banking sector and from budgetary sources, thus contributing heavily to the country's
inability to maintain macroeconomic stability. In 1995 alone, the 3,800 State-Owned
Enterprises (SOE) experienced losses of close to 6 percent of GDP, and under the strain of a
large negative cash flow have been unable to service fully their debts. As a result, the loan
portfolio of the banking sector continued to deteriorate, with banks also experiencing losses
of close to 3.5 percent of GDP. Even according to Bulgarian accounting standards, which are
less stringent than international standards, over 70 percent of the loan portfolio of 9 (out of
11) state banks and 50 percent of the portfolio of private banks are currently impaired. Most
banks are now insolvent and the total negative net worth of system is calculated to be close
to US$1.0 billion.
7.    Following severe liquidity problems and reports of impending difficulties, the
Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) since August 1995 has increased unsecured lending to
troubled banks in an attempt to prevent a further deterioration of the banking system. This
action, however, has not been accompanied by adequate restructuring and rehabilitation
measures. Despite the government's efforts, confidence on the banking system weakened
and the additional infusion of liquidity simply created added pressures on the foreign
exchange markets. In an attempt to offset these pressures and to maintain the exchange rate
relatively stable, BNB repeatedly intervened in the foreign exchange markets. But, the
failure to deal with the underlying problems of the losses by state enterprises and the health
of the banking system left the fundamentals unresolved. Unconvinced that the Government's
measures would resolve the situation, deposit withdrawals began, thus aggravating the
liquidity problems of banks and triggering the current crisis.
Recent Developments
8.    In January 1996, in the midst of rising concerns and growing rumors of banking
problems, the authorities reacted to early signs of withdrawal of deposits by announcing in
January 1996 a limited deposit insurance scheme for bank deposits. The announcement of
the program had the perverse effect of making depositors realize that their implicit
assumption of deposit guarantee in reality only applied to small amounts. Furthermore, the
program created uncertainty as to whether the guarantee program would apply to all deposits
in all banks. It also established that foreign exchange deposits were guaranteed only over a
two year period. As a result, public confidence diminished sharply and depositors began to
withdraw funds, particularly foreign exchange deposits, which declined from US$2.3 billion
in November 1995 to US$1.6 billion in June 1996. Lev deposits as a whole remained
constant in nominal terms, but depositors shifted their assets to the State Savings Bank (SSB),
which was viewed as more secure.
9.    With the run on foreign exchange deposits and the continued efforts by the authorities
to prevent a destabilizing movemerit of the exchange rate, foreign exchange reserves declined
sharply from US$1,230 million at the end of 1995 to US$670 million in April 1996. The
partial depletion of foreign exchange holdings was also precipitated by foreign debt service
requirements and unexpected wheat imports. In the midst of the emerging crisis and given



-4-
the lack of credit, international trade of commodities for the first three months of the year
declined by half compared to the same period in 1995.
10.  In response to the pressures, especially after the foreign exchange reserves had
reached a critical low level, the authorities more than doubled the central bank basic interest
rate to 108 percent per annum (180% annualized). They also announced the closure of a
large state bank and the largest private bank. The measures were not sufficient to stem the
crisis and after the authorities withdrew from the foreign exchange markets, the exchange
rate dropped by more than 100 percent in less than two months. As a result, monthly
inflation, which had declined to 22 percent on an annual basis by March of 1996, rose
sharply to 311 percent in May and 760 percent in June.
11.   Hence, Bulgaria is now in the midst of serious financial and foreign exchange crises.
Short term lending interest rates exceeded 200 percent per annum in early June. A large
portion of the deposit base is now inaccessible to depositors, with banks applying delay pay-
out tactics. Liquidity in the banking system has dropped sharply along with total credit in
the economy.
12.   The country's foreign exchange reserves also continue to drop and by the end of June
were estimated to be less than US$570 million. Foreign debt service payments due in the
second half of the year exceed US$670 million, with a large portion due to holders of Brady
bonds. The fiscal situation without any corrective measures would likely lead to a budget
deficit in excess of 8 percent of GDP. Economic growth for 1996 wiU either be negative or
at best non-existent. Unless the Government acts quickly, the country could easily confront a
period of hyper inflation and the threat of widespread default.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND REFORMS
13.   The Government began in May to adopt strong measures to deal with the crisis.
After extensive consultations with the IMF and the Bank, the authorities announced a
program of emergency measures to stabilize the economy, arrest the decline in confidence,
and accelerate the process of reforms. The program contains three broad components: a)
significant macroeconomic stabllization measures; b) a fundamental restructuring of the state
enterprise sector and privatization; and c) reform of the banking sector.
Macroeconomic Program
14.   The comprehensive macroeconomic program, already begun by the Government,
aims to reduce inflation by the end of 1996 to 100 percent, to restrict the budget deficit to
less than 5 percent of GDP for the year (by increasing the primary surplus from 8.6% of
GDP in 1995 to 10.7% in 1996), and to rebuild the level of foreign exchange reserves. The
main measures already adopted by the Government include an increase in the VAT rate from
18 to 22 percent, increases in excise tax rates, the introduction of a temporary import
surcharge of 5 percentage points on final consumption, and substantial increases in the tariffs



-5-
of electricity, transportation and administered prices of fuels. Together these measures are
estimated to yield about 2 percentage points of GDP in the second half of 1996.
15.   The Government is also sharply reducing non-interest expenditures in real terms by
limiting budgetary subsidies to enterprises and by limiting nominal wage increases in the
Central Government and state enterprises. Subsidies will be reduced with the increase in
tariffs and administered prices, especially electricity rates which were raised sharply in real
terms to 3.3 US cents per kilowatt hour (as agreed in combination with an existing World
Bank power sector loan). The price of petroleum derivatives are also slated for increases in
accordance with intemaional prices and movements in the exchange rates. Public sector
wages will be restricted given that end-year wage bonuses have been canceled and a firm
incomes policy framework has been adopted'. Expenditures for social insurance and social
assistance will not be raised as much as envisaged in the original budget.
16.   Total fiscal measures will reduce the net bank credit to Govemment to about 4
percent of GDP, greatly assisting the management of monetary policy. The monetary
program is designed to limit credits from the Central Bank and avoid sustained foreign
exchange interventions. The program also contemplates an accumulation of foreign exchange
reserves for the remainder of 1996, on the assumption that the rapid implementation of the
program will receive considerable international (financial) support and will reverse the flow
of flight capital.
17.   The outlook for the impact of the program on the balance of payments is highly
uncertain. The program envisages an improvement in trade and current accounts in the
coming months, mainly reflecting a contraction of import demand. The capital account is
expected to weaken markedly due to the large amortization payments coming due and
uncertainties about the reflow of capital. As shown in Table 2, the financing requirements
for the next few months can only be met with considerable support from the IMF, World
Bank and other official creditors and by a restoration of confidence in macroeconomic
management.
Financing RequiremLnts
18.   The Authorities have expressed their intention to remain current on their debt
servicing obligations. For these purposes they will need to manage their foreign exchange
reserves and available credit carefully. They intend to approach former CMEA creditors to
renegotiate the terms and timing of a buy-back agreement that requires large payments in the
near future. The Government will also have to resolve the problem of the liabilities by state
banks that face closure or have already been closed recently, particularly the deposits of
households and foreign liabilities.
Real wages in the public sector is expected to decline between 11 to 14 percent in ral terms during
1996.



-6-
Table 2: PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FOREIGN EXCHIANGE, 1996-1998 1/
.         1996                  1997                  1998
1. Sources                                        6364                   7290                  7694
Current Account Receipts                           6645                  7055                  7565
Exports of Goods                               4950                   5242                  5566
Exports of Services                            1556                   1670                  1852
Net Transfers                                   139                    143                   147
Capital Account (cxc. amortization)                -281                   235                    129
Identified                                      475                    633                   478
Disbursement                                 235                    263                   257
Direct Foreign Investment                    100                    350                   200
Export Credits 2/                            140                     20                    21
Others                                         -756                   -398                  -349
2. Uses                                            6996                  7142                  7960
Current Account Expenditures                       6303                  6772                  7288
Imports of Goods                               4501                   4865                  5222
Imports of Seivices                            1802                   1907                  2066
Amortization                                        468                   277                   538
IMF Repurchas-.s                                    225                     94                   134
3. Financial Gav                                   -633                    148                  -266
4. Extraordinary Financina                          455                    556                  280
World Bank                                          130                    150                   69
IMF                                                 220                   293                    73
EBRD                                                 23                     39                   70
G-24                                                 20                      0                    0
Bilateral                                            62                     74                   68
5. Chanoe ii, Reserves                             -178                    704                    14
(+ = increase)
1/ Projected extraordinary financing numbers assume that the Government will fully implement its program and will
receive the expected financial support for the reforms.
2/ Excludes approximately USS150 million repayments by Russia in natural gas under the Jamburg Agreement through
1996.
Enterprise Reforms
19.    The proposed reforms of the state enterprise sector are critical to the stabilization of
the economy and its future growth potential. The objectives of the Government's proposed
enterprise restructuring program are to enhance the economy's productivity potential,
accelerate the privatization process and, most urgently, eliminate the losses being generated
by the state enterprises.
20., The program includes the following actions: (i) the closure of the largest loss making
enterprises and the provision of technical support to facilitate liquidation and/or restructuring
of enterprises; (ii) the isolation and restructuring of potentially viable strategic enterprises in



- 7 -
order to improve their profitability through significant downsizing and enforcement of
financial discipline and management accountability; (iii) the acceleration of the privatization
program especially through more ambitious targets and faster implementation of the mass
privatization scheme, particularly by the inclusion of large enterprises offered for majority
private ownership; and (iv) assistance for the redeployment of redundant workers to
alternative productive employment, using a broad array of active labor market programs
including severance payments, outplacement counseling, labor market information,
retraining, and micro-enterprise development services.
21.   Under the Government's program, 64 enterprises, accounting for 25 percent of state
econonmic enterprises' total losses in 1995, are to be liquidated immediately. Another 70
enterprises, accounting for 50 percent of the enterprise losses in 1995, are to be placed on a
financial isolation regime akin to receivership for a period not to exceed 24 months, during
which they are to downsize and reduce their operating costs. The objectives are, in the case
of utilities and other strategic enterprises, to bring their dependence on budgetary subsidies to
acceptable levels and, in the case of commercial manufacturing enterprises, to restore a
positive cash flow so as to make their privatization feasible, failing which they are to be
liquidated. Approximately 25,000 workers are expected to be laid off by the 64 enterprises
to be liquidated, over the next few months, followed by another 40,000 during the next 6-12
months as a result of the restructuring and downsizing of the enterprises to be isolated, and
of the restructuring and closure of banks.
22.   Enterprise Liquidation Program. The 64 enterprises selected for immediate
liquidation account for 2.3 percent of total employment in public enterprises, and for 4.8
percent of the total assets of SOEs. Their liquidation is to be carried out under the
provisions of the commercial code, which regulate owner-initiated bankruptcies. The process
will be supervised by the courts. Petitions for bankruptcy have already been filed with the
courts for 40 enterprises, and the legal process for the remainder is under way.
23.,  Regardless of the time required to complete the bankruptcy procedures, it is essential
to expedite the actual cessation of operations of these value-subtracting enterprises and the
dismissal of their workers, which is critical to ensure the irreversibility of their closure. At
the same time, it will be crucial to redeploy the displaced workers and idle assets, to the
extent that technology permits, by selling the assets and by assisting the dismissed workers as
described below. The redeployment of the assets and workers would increase the efficiency
of the manufacturing sector.
24.   Enterprise Isolation Program. The other 70 large value-subtracting enterprises
identified by the government for isolation account for over 20 percent of SOE employment.
They cannot be closed immediately either because they provide vital services, or because of
the soc3al and political implications of their closure or because they are deemed to have
reasonable prospects of being restored to financial viability and privatized. For these
reasons, they have been slated for isolation rather than liquidation. The Government is
preparing special legislation that will allow these enterprises to be subjected to a regime akin
to the reorganization process under the bankruptcy law, without having to undergo the
uncertainties and delays implied by the courts' supervision of the process.



-8 -
25.   The 70 state-owned enterprises slated for isolation, are divided into two separate
groups.
*     Group A includes the electric utility, 18 district heating companies, 8 related
coal mines, BDZ (the National Railway Company), and the Sofia City
Transport Company which cannot be liquidated or privatized soon.
*     Group B consists of enterprises that could, in principle, be privatized or
liquidated as soon as they begin to operate in a commercially viable manner.
During the isolation regime, both groups of enterprises will be required to implement
restructuring plans to downsize, shed non-core business, reduce over-staffing to contain their
operating costs. At the same time they will be barred from new credit from suppliers and
banks, but their debt service obligations will be frozen until they have reached a financial
conciliation agreement with their creditors following the implementation of cost-cutting
measures. In addition, Group A enterprises would benefit from price increases augmented
by explicit and direct budget subsidies where warranted and feasible within the macro
economic constraints (e.g., district heating). They would be removed from the isolation
program when they have operated for at least two consecutive quarters without a cash deficit
(including direct budget subsidies). Group B enterprises, on the other hand, will exit the
isolation program only if they become profitable for at least two quarters or if they are
turned around and privatized within two years, otherwise they will be liquidated.
26.   Technical assistance will be made available to the isolated enterprises to prepare and
implement restructuring plans, and to the Government to oversee the process. The technical
assistance will be financed with bilateral grants (where possible) and loans from an earlier
approved Technical Assistance Loan.
27. The Privatization Program. The Government recognizes the need to accelerate
significantly its privatization program. Until now, privatization has been limited by direct
sales or 'cash privatization" as the preferred method of transfer, with preferences being
given to existing managers and employees. The privatization has also been restricted by the
unwillingness of the Government to part with controlling interests in enterprises, by offering
less than two-thirds of shares in any particular enterprise for privatization. 2
28. To improve the prospect of privatization the Government recently introduced a Mass
Privatization Program (MPP) similar to that pursued in the Czech Republic by issuing
vouchers to over 2.8 million citizens so far this year. The first national voucher auction is
scheduled to begin in October. Over 1000 companies with a total capital of Lev 90 billion
are to be offered in the first wave of auctions. Investment funds will be allowed to play a
major role in the program. A fund can own up to 34 percent of the shares of an enterprises
and thus have a strong influence on corporate governance. About 60 privatization funds had
2     Unde the Bulgarian Law, onethird ownership constitutes a blocking minority.



-9 -
their prospectuses already approved by the newly-established Stock and Securities Exchange
Commission.
29.   The major drawback of the MPP, as originally designed, was that only minority
stakes of the larger enterprises were included. Although the MPP was to transfer to private
owners, two-thirds or more of the shares of about 500 small- and medium-sized enterprises,
in the agriculture, services and tourism sectors, the original MPP would have genuinely
privatized only about 6 percent of the assets now in state ownership (if a privatized enterprise
is defined as one in which the remaining state ownership is less than the 1/ blocking
minority).
30.  In light of the current crisis, the Government has decided to accelerate privatization
aiming to privatize SOEs accounting for 50 percent of all SOE assets within the next year. It
intends to do so by: (a) enhancing the target of the MPP by including a majority stake of
larger enterprises in the mass privatization program, and (b) facilitating cash privatization by
extending a deferred payment scheme to all domestic investors, with a small down payment,
a long repayment period and reduced interest rate, and by selling enterprises to managers and
workers on concessional terms. Recent amendments to the privatization law have liberalized
terms for worker/management buyouts. Moreover, valuation procedures will be simplified,
especially for small enterprises. The Government expects to sell under this accelerated
program an additional 5 percent of assets over the next three months and another 10 percent
over the next year.
31.   Employee Redeployment Program. The Govemment is acutely aware of the social
and political cost of some 65,000 employees of enterprises and state banks losing their jobs.
The projected labor retrenchment will represent the largest mass lay off in the history of the
economic transition in Bulgaria. In order to alleviate the associated social costs, the
Government has put together a package of mitigating measures which includes: (i) active
labor market programs to retrain and redirect laid-off workers; and (ii) severance payments
to retrenched workers who lose their jobs as a result of the enterprise and banking reform
program.
32.   Active Labor Market Prgrams. A considerable number of active labor market
programs are already ongoing in Bulgaria. These programs (which as discussed in paragraph
82 are both Government and donor-financed) are being administered by the National
Employment Service (NES) which, in recent years, has focussed particular attention on
developing effective mechanisms for dealing with mass lay offs and, in accordance with its
existing mandate and programs, is opening additional facilities as needed, including in-plant
facilities to accommodate the retrenched workers needing assistance.
33.   The Government of Bulgaria operates an array of redeployment programs financed
through its Unemployment and Retraining Fund (URF).3 The programs carried out under
3     The URF is funded by a five percent payroll tax on employment.



- 10-
the URF include: labor market information, employment counseling, job search assistance,
worker retraining, temporary public works employment, wage subsidy, and self-employment.
As described below, these ongoing activities are being strengthened and expanded to include
small enterprise development, employment creation schemes and temporary work programs
in regions most severely affected by restructuring and closure of state economic enterprises.
34.  In addition, NES is prepared to cope with mass lay-offs through an intervention
program involving the NES structures at the national, regional and enterprise levels.
Regulations and guidelines for mass lay-offs have been drawn up, and the NES has set up a
national team for mass lay-offs which includes experts on active labor market programs, cash
benefits and other related services. At the regional level, rapid reaction teams have been
formed to respond to the needs of the laid off workers in specific state economic enterprises.
These teams, made up of experts in active labor market programs and related social services,
will intervene early in the lay off process and will provide services and consultation to laid
off workers, coordination of placements in temporary work programs, information of
services available, and registration of laid off workers. Finally, within enterprises to be
restructured or closed, non-governmental commissions comprising representatives of the
trade unions, employers and non-unionized workers will also provide to the laid off workers
the appropriate assistance in finding income support (cash benefits), training, counseling and
altemative employment.
35.   Severance Payments. The second area of Government support involves provision of
severance payments to retrenched workers. Under existing Bulgarian law, employers are
responsible for making severance payments to workers who are laid off. In conjunction with
its enterprise reform program, the Govemment proposes to pay retrenched workers a lump
sum severance payment equivalent to six times the average monthly wage for employees with
six months or more of service in the enterprise to be closed/restructured. Employees with
less than six months service will receive three times the monthly average wage as severance
pay.4
Banking Sector Reforms
36.   The Govemment has also moved to deal immediately with the country's current
banking crisis to lay the foundations of a restructuring of the banking system. Besides
closing two large banks and introducing an explicit partial deposit guarantee scheme, the
Government is also introducing a program of limited capitalization and possible privatization,
restricted unsecured financing on the part of the Central Bank, a series of work-out
arrangements to improve capital adequacy, and improved supervision and accounting
practices. The Government recognizes that dealing with the current crisis will be particularly
difficult since it requires restoring confidence by backing the payments of deposits on
demand while limiting the budgetary costs of such guarantee.
4     All laid off workers will have access to all other programs and benefits offered by the NES.



- 11 -
37.   The general approach of the program is to limit the recapitalization of banks from
public funds to the amounts already announced under the "Bulbank scheme" (described
below) except in conjunction with measures to attain sound private governance. Such an
approach implies that the authorities would assist in replenishing the negative net worth of
the bank only when a responsible private buyer is found who is willing to take a significant
stake in the bank's equity, and to assume responsibility for its governance and management.
In addition, the authorities have decided to restrict SSB's lending to other banks and its
involvement in the interbank market. This restriction on SSB is necessary to provide the
public with a safe deposit alternative (deposits in the savings bank are insured without limit)
without increasing future budgetary costs. By having the savings bank only hold government
and/or central bank paper, the savings bank's growth would be limited to the overall increase
in public sector borrowings.
38.   The authorities have already approved a limited recapitalization program for some
problem banks by issuing US$400 million (face value) of bonds. These tradable bonds have
been distributed to selected banks in order to improve their capital adequacy. The bonds can
also be used to obtain secured financing.
39.   A core element of the banking reform program is the work out plans that every
problem bank must present to BNB. To ensure that BNB enforces its existing prudential
standards, and to oblige directors of banks to fulfill their fiduciary obligations, BNB has
signed Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with each of the recapitalized banks and
negative net worth banks. The MOUs contain specific benchmarks for the banks' operations,
including targets for loan recovery and cost cutting. The principal objective of the MOUs is
to commit banks to restrict their operations until performance benchmarks are achieved.
Banks have agreed not to extend any new loans to uncreditworthy borrowers or to enterprises
in the isolation list or pay out any cash dividends. There will also be a schedule to increase
capital from retained earnings and to comply with all BNB's prudential requirements. The
MOUs for state banks with negative net worth specifically prohibit any increase in their loans
outstanding (i.e., they can lend only what they actually collect). For private banks, the
MOUs specify how these banks will meet the 8 percent capital requirement within the next
year.
40.   The BNB will monitor the fulfillment of the MOUs monthly until the end of 1996,
and quarterly through 1997. For state banks already recapitalized (under the limited program
discussed above), the MOUs cease to apply when the banks have achieved an interim target
of 4 percent capital adequacy according to international accounting standards; and for other
banks with negative net worth, lending restrictions and MOUs cease to apply once their
capital is positive according to international accounting standards. The MOUs will specify the
penalties for non-compliance. For recapitalized state banks, the penalty is the replacement of
the bank's board and management and denial of access to BNB refinancing. Illiquidity,
which cannot be satisfied within the refinancing limits, will result in the immediate
appointment of a conservator according to the bank insolvency law.
41.   The Authorities intend to improve supervision and accounting standards. The
supervision of banks will be greatly enhanced by the close (monthly) monitoring of actions



- 12 -
outlined in the Memoranda of Understandings being filed by the banks. The Government
also plans to revise Bulgarian accounting standards, which are not currently consistent with
international accounting norms. The BNB has plans to revise its own accounting practices
and to have banks report in accordance with international accounting standards starting in
January 1997. Finally, information on borrower's creditworthiness will be made available to
all banks country-wide to help with lending decisions.
42.   The package of macroeconomic policy measures, public enterprises, liquidation,
privatization and/or restructuring, along with bank reforms are expected to have an important
stabilizing effect on the economic situation. It should also lead to efficiency and productivity
gains as state assets are redeployed to more productive uses. The program should result in
the elimination of close to 90 percent of the negative value-added (value of output less cost
of material inputs) in the state enterprise sector. Approximately a quarter of this negative
value added will be eliminated up front through the liquidation of the 64 loss making
enterprises. In addition, this liquidation, as well as the isolation from bank credits of the
worst loss making enterprises, should free resources equivalent to about 20 percent of the
total credit to the enterprise sector. These resources could have been made available to
finance viable enterprises which were "crowded out" from access to such credit. The reform
program should help reverse the situation and provide the basis for positive and sustained
real growth.
II. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Objectives and Description
43.   The proposed quick disbursing Rehabilitation Loan will support the initial phases of
the Government's stabilization and reform program (described in part II). The loan in the
amount of US$30 million will help finance immediate costs of the measures currently
underway, important among which is the fiscal burden of assisting the workers being
displaced in the enterprise restructuring and/or liquidation programs. Concerns about the
effects on displaced workers has been a major impediment to reforms, and a stronger social
safety net for these workers is crucial in ameliorating their concerns.
44.   Accordingly, a key result of the proposed loan is to enable the government to
strengthen the social safety net in Bulgaria, a measure essential at this time to permit the
rehabilitation and downsizing of a large number of loss-making enterprises and banks and the
closure and liquidation of others. This is the critical ingredient of the Government's program
of structural reforms. The initial phase of the program being supported by the loan would
have three sets of inter-related effects: (i) it would remove a key obstacle to the
implementation of structural reforms, namely, the adverse social consequences from
increased unemployment; (ii) it would reduce the pressures currently being placed on banks
by politically powerful value-subtracting state economic enterprises to finance their losses, a
root cause of the current financial crisis and; (iii) it would thus allow the banking system,
once it is rehabilitated through structural reforms, to cater to the needs of the emergent
private sector, which has been crowded out by the excessive credit demand of state owned



- 13 -
enterprises. The financing provided by this loan will thus directly facilitate the government's
ability to mitigate the social cost of the reform program.
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
45.   Bulgaria is currently in midst of a financial crisis. The problems of the state
enterprise and banking sectors lie at the heart of the crisis. It is essential for the Government
to re-establish confidence and avert a further deterioration of economic conditions.
Aggressive actions are urgently required to achieve macro-economic stabilization and
enhance private sector development through privatization, imposing financial discipline on
state economic enterprises, strengthening the banking system, while at the same time
providing for a viable social safety net. Due to the current crisis, access to foreign financing
has completely ceased. With large foreign and domestic debt-service obligations coming
due, Bulgaria would not be able to overcome the crises and restore confidence without the
assistance of the IFIs.
46.   The Government is aware of the severity of the crisis and has moved to implement a
far reaching program of macroeconomic stabilization and reforms. The actions taken by the
Government and the plans for further measures over the next few months were identified as
triggers to increase bank lending support to a high-case lending scenario in the latest Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) paper.
47.   As noted in the CAS, the Bank's primary objective in Bulgaria is to facilitate the
country's transition to a market economy in order to achieve long-term growth in a
sustainable, non-inflationary environment. This approach is the most appropriate strategy for
achieving the ultimate objective of raising the living standards in Bulgaria. To pursue these
goals, the Bank assistance was designed to focus on five areas:
i)    facilitating the transition to a market economy and the expansion of private
sector activity through structural reforms, primarily enterprise reform
(especially privatization) and banking reform;
ii)   supporting macroeconomic stabilization to lower inflation further and sustain a
viable balance-of-payments position;
iii)   establishing financially viable and effective social sector policies and
institutions, including a social safety net;
iv)   rebuilding and rehabilitating Bulgaria's infrastructure and improving the
environment; and
v)    improving the effectiveness of Bank operations through improvements in
public administration and project preparation and identification.



- 14 -
48.   The Government's program and the proposed loan are clearly aimed at achieving the
first three objectives. The public enterprise and banking sector reform program will increase
the overall productivity in the economy in the medium term. The liquidation of the worst
loss makers will enhance the transfer of assets to private ownership and increase the
availability of labor for private sector activities, while strengthening the banking sector and
stemming the crowding out of private sector borrowing. Carrying out reforms in a prudent
manner and with due attention to the social implications by providing a social safety net for
redundant workers will ensure public confidence and support for the Government's reform
program.
49.   The proposed loan is the first response by the Bank in a sequential approach to
support the Government's efforts. The loan will assist with the initial phase of the reform
implementation process. The Bank is also preparing a Financial and Sector Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan (FESAL), which could be presented to the Board later in 1996 after actual
completion of key elements of the reform program. The FESAL would thus support the
larger program of reforms being contemplated by the Government.  Movement to a high-
case lending scenario would be considered only after fulfillment of the conditions outlined in
the CAS for adjustment lending (page 24 of the CAS). One of the key pre-requisites for
considering high-case lending scenario was the Government's demonstrated commitment to a
strong macroeconomic stabilization program. The Government has begun to implement such
program as evidenced by the measures taken so far and by the successful conclusion of
negotiations on a 20-month IMF Standby Agreement, which is expected to be approved by
the IMF's Board of Directors on July 19, 1996.
Loan Administration
50.   Terms and Conditions. The proposed loan, in the amount of US$30 million
equivalent, would be made to the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of twenty years,
including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's single currency LIBOR based floating
interest rates in US dollars.
51.   Disbursement and Procurement. The Loan will be disbursed in one tranche upon
effectiveness. It will finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures associated with the reform
program of the Government described in the Letter of Development Policy, except for items
specified in the negative list in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. The total amount of the
Loan will be disbursed into a Ministry of Finance foreign exchange account with BNB
especially set up for this purpose.
52.   Accounts and Audit. BNB would maintain the account for the proposed Loan in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The Ministry of Finance will prepare a final
report on the progress of the program six months after the closing date of loan, and submit
the report to the Bank. The account and disbursements under the program would be audited
within six months from the end of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank within six months from the end of
the fiscal year.



- 15 -
53.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environment Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been
placed in category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits and Risks
54.   Benefits. The support from this operation for the initial phase of the reform program
would assist the Government to introduce its far reaching macroeconomic stabilization and
restructuring programs by mitigating the adverse social impact resulting from the job
displacement of workers. Rapid introduction of the program is critical to help restore
domestic and international confidence and help stem the current banking and foreign
exchange crises. The reform program is designed to reduce macroeconomic instability, and
to address deep-seated structural problems in the enterprise and banking sectors, and to
sustain the stabilization program and advance the transition to a market economy. The
restructuring and liquidation and/or restructuring and privatization of loss-making state
economic enterprises would reduce fiscal deficits and release resources to more productive
purposes thereby enhancing overall economic growth. It would also help improve the
viability of the banking system and re-establish a framework in which private sector
investment can flourish.
55.   The reduction of losses that would result from the closure and downsizing of
enterprises would exceed two percent of GDP. This estimate of the benefits of the loan does
not consider the possible gains from re-employment within the first two years of any workers
being displaced by the program. It also does not incorporate the possible revenues and
productivity improvements that would be obtained through the sale of assets from liquidated
enterprises.
56.   Risks. Because of the crisis situation in Bulgaria, any lending operation at this point
carries significant risks. There are essentially three classes of risks confronting the proposed
loan: a continued deterioration of the financial crisis; political instability; and failure to
proceed with the reform program.
57.   The crisis currently confronting Bulgaria will only ease once confidence in the
banking sector and on the Government's economic program is re-established. This will
require sufficient financial resources to respond to the public's demand for withdrawals of
deposits. The proposed loan is designed to help re-instill confidence. The loan is part of a
developing program of support by the Bank, IMF and other official donors. Macroeconomic
stability will not be achieved if the crisis in the financial sector does not subside, and many
of the benefits to be derived from the existing operation may be jeopardized. These risks
would be partially mitigated by the visible support of the International Financial Institutions
with loans to help strengthen the fuindamental reforms being introduced by the program.
58.   There is also the risk that public backlash against the reforms could lead to political
instability or to a change in commitment by the current Government to pursue a far reaching
structural reform program. Bulgaria has had several governments since the fail of
communism in 1989. The current Government has been in office since late 1994 and it has



- 16 -
taken the Government more than a year-and-a-half to recognize the urgent need for structural
reform and to announce a meaningful set of policy measures. The success of these
measures, as well as the continued implementation of a strict stabilization program, will
depend on the political will of the Government which, until recently had been hesitant to
introduce fundamental reforms. Powerful economic groups with vested interests will
continue to try to slow down the reform process. Any postponement of actions at this time,
however, would imply a further deepening of the crisis with all its detrimental affects on
growth, incomes, and the country's international credit standing.
59.   Finally, there is the risk of certain policy reversals, such as failure to proceed with
the liquidation of enterprises that cannot be turned around and privatized or that enterprises
would rehire employees who had previously been laid off and paid severance. To ensure
greater compliance with the established program, the Bank is also discussing with the
Government a much larger proposed FESAL that would be linked to progress in the
liquidation restructuring and privatization program. The Government has put in place a
program of close monitoring of the employment by enterprises and has provided assurances
(see Letter of Development Policy) that it will enforce the provisions of the program.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
Bank's Assistance Strategy
60.   The Government's progress in implementing major aspects of the adjustment
program--imposing financial discipline on state enterprises, reforming the banking sector and
privatization--has been limited so far. This has constrained the Bank's ability to provide
balance of payments support and affected the implementation of most investment projects.
The Bank's assistance strategy, as set out in the CAS approved on April 9, 1996, proposed
a strategy designed to encourage the Government to address the country's serious structural
adjustment issues. The strategy included a core lending program of four projects for US$125
million in FY97-99. When the Government adopts and carries out the required structural
reform program, the Bank would be prepared to increase its support with two additional
adjustment operations up to a total of US$300 million and a guarantee operation of up to
US$75 million.
61.   In addition to the adjustment operations mentioned above, significant progress on the
macro front would be required for an additional Bank investment lending of five projects
during FY97-99. This additional lending would further depend on implementation progress
in Bank projects through improvements in the disbursement ratio to 8 percent in FY97, 10
percent in FY98 and 12 percent in FY99. An Action Plan was agreed to reduce and then
eliminate from the portfolio the projects that are rated as "unsatisfactory." These projects
will be eliminated through restructuring and/or cancellation, with the cancellation offsetting
the increased exposure from the proposed Rehabilitation Loan. The target would be to
reduce the number of projects rated unsatisfactory to no more than three in FY97 and two in
FY98.



- 17 -
62.   A Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan for US$200 million is currently
being prepared. It aims to support the implementation of a reform program that would help
stem the current banking and foreign exchange crisis, restore macroeconomic stability and
address deep-seated structural problems in the enterprise and banking sectors.
Portfolio Implementation
63.   Bank commitments in Bulgaria total US$839 million as of May 31, 1996. The
existing lending portfolio in Bulgaria consists of eight projects in the amount of US$464
million (including a Health Sector Restructuring Project, which was approved in the last
quarter). The performance of the portfolio has been poor on two counts: (a) Slow
disbursements. Only US$47.9 million of the investment loans was disbursed as of May 31,
1996, leaving an undisbursed balance of about US$416 million. Disbursements for FY96
total only US$15.7 million, yielding a disbursement ratio of 5 percent. The low
disbursement ratio for investment loans of about 5 percent has remained unchanged in the
last four years. (b) A further deterioration in the quality of the portfolio. About 50
percent of the portfolio received unsatisfactory implementation performance and development
objective ratings compared to 50 percent and 25 percent last year. The main reason for the
unsatisfactory portfolio performance is the lack of reform in three major areas--banking,
enterprise and agriculture sectors.
64.   The Department held its first annual review of project implementation in 1995. This
review highlighted some generic and project specific issues. It resulted in an Action Plan
designed to accelerate project implementation and speed up project processing. Actions
agreed to be taken to address generic and project specific issues were successful in
improving the implementation of the majority of Bank projects. The Department launched a
second annual review of project performance in April. The Bank and the Government
agreed on a detailed position paper. Besides outlining measures to improve project
implementation, the Bank and the Government discussed possible balance of payment support
in accordance with the preparation of the Government's macrostabilization and structural
reform program. The Government and the Bank also agreed on a restructuring of the Water
Companies Restructuring Project which will result in cancellation of a portion of this loan
thus offsetting the increased exposure of the loan being proposed here. Finally, the Bank and
the Government agreed on the extension of the Closing Date of the Technical Assistance
Loan, previously scheduled to close on June 30, 1996. This extension will help finance
much needed technical assistance in support of the enterprise restructuring and banking
reform program that the Government has recently launched.
Previous Adjustment Operations
65.   A Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) in Bulgaria was approved in August 1991 and
completed in October 1994. It was designed to support the ambitious and comprehensive
adjustment program initiated by a broad-based coalition Government in February 1991. This
adjustment program was intended to reverse the severe economic deterioration--rising
inflation, declining GDP and growing external imbalances--that beset the country because of
the political changes that swept Bulgaria and the rest of Eastern and Central Europe in 1989.



- 18 -
It was also designed to help initiate the transition from a command economy to a market
economy. The SAL was part of a comprehensive package of international financial support
for Bulgaria's reform program. This support included an IMF Stand-by Arrangement and a
Compensatory Contingency Fund Facility (CCCF), and substantial balance of payments
support from the EU/G-24, which included US$375 million in EU loan assistance and a
US$100 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) as co-financing of the
SAL.
66.   The outcome of the SAL was satisfactory. The economy was extensively liberalized.
A basic legal and institutional framework for a market economy was established. A legal
and institutional basis for transferring assets to the private sector was also established.
Moreover, significant assets transfer occurred through the restitution of urban properties and
agricultural land, although progress to date in the privatization of state enterprises is
disappointing. External imbalances were substantially reduced. Despite the favorable effect
of the measures taken under the SAL to reform the banking system and corporatize state
enterprises, controlling fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits still remains a major challenge to
policymakers. Since the SAL was approved very early in Bulgaria's political and economic
transition, it is inevitable that some measures supported were inappropriate or too ambitious.
Most measures have yielded important and tangible benefits. At the same time, project
sustainability could be at risk due to the insufficient structural reforms (especially
privatization, public finances and social safety net). Further substantial intensification and
broadening of structural reforms is therefore necessary.
67.   The Bank also extended a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (DDSR) to help
the government reduce its significant debt burden. This was achieved through three
instruments: a buyback option, a 30-year discount bond, and an 18-year Front-Loaded
Interest Reduction Bond. The DDSR loan was designed to assist the Government to finance
a portion of the up-front costs of US$715 million of the DDSR Agreement. The Bank's loan
of US$125 million was part of a joint effort with the IMF and the Government of the
Netherlands. The IMF provided an additional US$101 million to the DDSR Agreement.
The Government of Netherlands also provided 15 million Guilders (about US$8.6 million).
Official support for the DDSR agreement totalled about US$241 million, leaving US$474
million to be financed from Bulgaria's international reserves.
68.   Implementation of the DDSR was satisfactory. It was fully disbursed in one tranche
in October 1994. The DDSR agreement was successfully completed in a relatively short
time and has largely achieved its immediate objectives. However, the loan accomplished less
in advancing pivotal long-term reform, and several core development issues remain to be
tackled. These could ultimately undermine the benefits of the loan and jeopardize
sustainability.
Creditworthiness
69.   As a result of the DDSR operation, Bulgaria's creditworthiness indicators have
improved. Total external debt at end-1995 was US$10.2 billion (82 percent of GDP),
compared to US$12.1 billion at end-1992 (139 percent of GDP). Also, the debt-to-export



- 19 -
ratio declined from 240 percent to 156 percent over the same period. The debt service ratio
was estimated at 16 percent in 1995 and projected to rise to 19 percent in 1996 (well below
the Bank's guidelines of 25 percent.)
70.   Medium term projections suggest a manageable debt service level--as long as the
Government proceeds with fundamental structural reforms and accelerates the process of
privatization. Under this scenario, the debt service as a percentage of export earnings
(liquidity ratio) would reach 15 percent by the end of the decade and would continue to fall
further, reaching 9.8 percent by the year 2006. These projected ratios are well below the 25
percent threshold level for sustainability. The IBRD liquidity ratio is very small - about 0.7
percent in 1995, rising to I percent in 1996--and will remain under 1.5 percent for the next
decade--well below the Bank's exposure guidelines of 4 percent. With the exception of the
preferred creditor ratio which meets the Bank's guidelines of 35 percent in 1996, Bulgaria's
creditworthiness indicators would remain comfortably within the Bank's exposure guidelines.
Finally, Bulgaria's 'solvency ratio' of 185 percent is below the 200 percent threshold for a
manageable debt situation, as suggested by cross country experiences. [The 'solvency ratio'
is computed by taking the ratio of the present value of debt service on existing debt stock as
of end-1995 (discounted at a rate of 7.2 percent) to average exports for the past three years.]
71.   As is common in many debt reduction operations, the DDSR agreement has left
Bulgaria with an inflexible debt service profile that persists over the medium term. Thus, if
debt service difficulties do arise, options for restructuring debt will be extremely constrained.
In any case, the likelihood of debt servicing difficulties to the IBRD is relatively low. The
IBRD debt service constitutes only 6.5 percent of total inflexible debt service in 1996. (A
measure of the inflexibility of debt service is the preferred creditors (e.g., IMF, IBRD,
EBRD) share of debt service and the debt service on bonds.) This ratio is expected to rise to
about 12 percent toward the end of the decade.
Role of IFC, MIGA and FIAS
72.   IFC has pursued a number of investment prospects in Bulgaria in the infrastructure,
agribusiness, tourism and capital markets areas as well as a number of privatization advisory
assignments. To date only two investments have been approved. IFC had an investment in
the EuroMerchant Balkans Fund, a venture capital fund which closed in December 1994 with
US$27.3 million of subscribed capital. It also became a shareholder in Interlease with an
equity participation of US$400,000. Interlease is a newly established leasing company
specializing in financing of productive equipment. By November 1995, the Euro Merchant
Balkans Fund's Board had approved three investments. However, because of the very slow
pace of privatization and the very limited foreign direct investment that has taken place in
Bulgaria, it has been extremely difficult for IFC to find medium and larger sized projects in
the private sector.
73.   As the pace of privatization increases and the number of local private sector
companies is expanded, IFC expects to be able to increase its activities in both the direct
investment and the advisory roles. IFC is currently exploring several joint-venture
possibilities in hotel and management projects and has had preliminary discussions to explore



- 20 -
investment opportunities in the power sector, if the Government moves ahead with plans to
privatize the enterprises.
74.   IFC's involvement in the financial sector will depend to some extent on the pace of
progress made in restructuring of existing institutions. The IFC is currently working on a
project to establish a leasing company. A leasing company would provide financial support
for small and medium-sized companies. This is a component of Bulgaria's private sector that
is growing most vigorously, but is most constrained by the weak financial system.
75.   The Bank and IFC have worked closely together, and fielded a joint mission, in
preparation of a Private Sector Assessment (PSA) report for Bulgaria. The Bank, with the
assistance of EDI and IFC, will collaborate closely on disseminating the messages of the PSA
to a wide audience and in identifying further measures to promote private sector
development.
76.   The Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) has been assisting the Foreign
Investment Agency (FIA) in the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development. In
FY94, FIAS conducted a diagnostic study of the environment for foreign direct investment in
Bulgaria. This was followed in FY95 with assistance for the establishment of a national FDI
statistical system.
77.   In response to a request from the authorities, FIAS is developing a program of
assistance for the following activities: (i) the development of a national investment
promotion strategy; (ii) support to the institutional building of the recently established
Foreign Investment Agency; (iii) identification of impediments to the establishment of joint
ventures with state-owned enterprises, and recommendation to addressing them; and (iv)
support in introducing and implementing changes to policies, laws, regulations and
procedures with a view to enhance the FDI environment.
78.   Bulgaria became a member of MIGA in 1992. MIGA has insured three projects in
Bulgaria in the manufacturing and banking sectors. The banking project involved Banque
Nationale de Paris' investment in BNP-Dresdner Bank. MIGA issued a guarantee to ING
Bank of the Netherlands for a loan to its branch in Bulgaria. To date, MIGA has registered
five other projects in Bulgaria representing an aggregate potential investment of US$109
million. MIGA has also concluded a Legal Protection Agreement and a Use of Local
Currency Agreement with the Government of Bulgaria.
V. COORDINATION WITH OTHER MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS AND
OFFICIAL DONORS
79.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in assisting the Government to design the
macrostabilization and structural reforms program underlying the proposed loan. The IMF
Standby Arrangement is predicated on a successful program of structural reforms, supported
by the Bank. Conversely, Bank support requires a sound macroeconomic program, based on
an agreement reached with the Fund. The Fund is relying on the Bank to help the



- 21 -
Government implement its enterprise reform program and both institutions are providing
technical support in dealing with the current banking crisis.
80.   In addition, several other Multilateral Organizations and official donors have
expressed their readiness to mobilize additional resources to support the Government's
structural reform program. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Union (EU) and USAID are
currently supporting major investments in Bulgaria. The EBRD is prepared to move forward
with a restructuring/ recapitalization operation for the United Bank of Bulgaria, once the
banking sector reform program has been agreed and is under implementation. Other donor
support is of two kinds: technical assistance for enterprise restructuring and active labor
redeployment programs.
81.   Donor-assisted programs are already in place to provide technical support to the
enterprises affected by the Government reform program. EU-PHARE is providing grant
financing (US$10 million equivalent) for technical assistance, upon request, to enterprises
undergoing restructuring. On short notice, technical assistance can be provided in the
following areas: production management, marketing, financial management, waste
management, and language training for employees. An on-going USAID program is
providing approximately US$300,000 to finance support for closures of non-viable
enterprises or the restructuring of viable enterprises. This program has been expanded to
respond to the Government's need for technical support to implement its recently developed
enterprise and banking sector reform program. The support consists of policy advice and
assistance to develop a liquidation and restructuring strategy for enterprises, assistance in
defining the sequence in which enterprises should be liquidated, and development of model
Financial Recovery Plans for several enterprises to be isolated. In addition, EBRD/UNDP
is providing financing (about US$350,000 equivalent) to support a program--Turn Around
Management (TAM)--which provides business advice to potentially viable enterprises aimed
at strengthening management's ability to manage successfully the transition to a market
economy. In developing the proposed program to support implementation of the state
economic enterprise reform, the Bank has worked closely with the Government and other
donors, in particular EU-PHARE and USAID.
82.   Donors are also providing financing for the development of active labor market
programs. First, a major effort is underway to support small business development. USAID
is providing financing in the amount of US$55 million to a Bulgarian Enterprise Fund to
provide credit to small enterprises for business development projects. And EU-PHARE is
helping to set up small business assistance centers in two cities and intends to replicate this
program in four of five other locations. Second, the ILO/UNDP and the Dutch Government
are providing US$0.5 million (for 1996) to assist regional economic development and reduce
pressure in regions that are particularly affected by the Governmlent's reform program.
Third, USAID is providing financing for an employment services and dislocated workers
program (US$300,000 for 1996/97) which includes (i) building the institutional capacity of
the NES; and (ii) support for the mass lay off mitigation mechanisms and redundant workers'
reintegration into the work force. In addition, the German Government is considering
assistance (US$300,000 equivalent) to establish an "employment and training company"



- 22 -
(ABS), modeled on companies set up in the former German Democratic Republic to cushion
the transition of redundant workers in a socially supportive manner in conjunction with
privatization and restructuring of enterprises.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
83.   I am satisfied that the Proposed Rehabilitation Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser



Annex 1
BULGARIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
July 15, 1996
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    This Letter of Development Policy describes the economic reform program that the
Government of the Republic of Bulgaria intends to undertake to accelerate structural
adjustment in the enterprise sector and the general transition to a market economy. This
Letter focuses on the Government's proposed enterprise reforms, including substantial
acceleration of privatization, which comprise one of the key components of our overall
reform efforts. Here, we limit the description of the policy measures to enterprise sector
reform for the purpose of the Rehabilitation Loan that we are seeking. To meet the
immediate challenge of enterprise reforms, the Government is hereby requesting the World
Bank's financial assistance in the form of a Rehabilitation Loan, to support the initial phase
of our broad reform program which we hope will marshall additional financial and technical
support of the World Bank in the near future.
Background
2.    The Government of Bulgaria has developed a stabilization package with strong
confidence-building and banking reform measures, which has been agreed in principle with
the International Monetary Fund and the Bank. The stabilization and banking reform
package is designed to re-establish the confidence in domestic currency, reduce inflation and
establish a viable fiscal and external position while taking decisive measures in the banking
sector, including closures of unviable banks.
3.    Meanwhile, in parallel with the stabilization and banking reform measures, we are
significantly accelerating structural reforms in the enterprise sector. These reforms include
closures and isolation of loss-making SOEs and privatization. The implementation of these
reforms has started in earnest. To mitigate the inevitable social costs that these reforms
entail, the Bank's immediate assistance in the form of a Rehabilitation Loan is crucial.



-2-
Enterprise Reforms
4.    The Government of Bulgaria is firmly committed to reforming the state enterprise
sector. We believe that the long term stability of our economy and its future growth
potential crucially depend on the success of our enterprise reforms. The objectives of our
enterprise restructuring program are to enhance productivity, eliminate losses of state
enterprises, re-establish financial discipline, and accelerate privatization.
5.    To achieve these objectives, we intend to take four sets of key reform measures:
(i) closing some of the largest loss making enterprises;
(ii) isolating and restructuring of potentially viable enterprises in order to improve
their profitability through significant downsizing and enforcement of financial
discipline and management accountability, with a view to their eventual privatization
or, in case of utilities and other strategic enterprises to the restoration of their
financial viability;
(iii) mitigating the social costs of the inevitable retrenchment of workers from closed
and/or downsized enterprises by providing severance payments and assistance for the
redeployment of redundant workers to alternative productive employment, using a
broad array of active labor market programs including severance payments,
outplacement counseling, labor market information, retraining, and micro-enterprise
development services; and
(iv) accelerating both the mass privatization program and the cash privatizations,
particularly via the inclusion of large enterprises offered for majority private
ownership, and easing the conditions for the sale of shares for all domestic investors.
6.    Under our program, 64 enterprises, accounting for 25 percent of state owned
enterprises' total losses in 1995, will be liquidated immediately. Another 70 enterprises,
accounting for 50 percent of the SOE losses in 1995, will be placed on a financial isolation
regime akin to receivership for a period not to exceed 24 months, during which they are to
downsize and reduce their operating costs so as to bring within acceptable limits their
dependence on budgetary subsidies in the case of utilities and other strategic enterprises or,
in the case of commercial manufacturing enterprises, to restore a positive cash flow so as to
make their privatization feasible, failing which they are to be liquidated. Approximately
25,000 workers are expected to be laid off by the 64 enterprises to be liquidated, over the
next few months. This will likely be followed by another lay-off of approximately 40,000
workers during the next 6-12 months as a result of the restructuring and downsizing of the
enterprises to be isolated, and of the restructuring and closure of banks. The Government
will mitigate the costs of these lay-offs by providing adequate severance payments and
assistance in the re-employment of those workers in the private sector.
7.    EnterDrise Closure Program. The liquidation of the 64 enterprises, included in the
list which has been provided and agreed with the Bank, will be carried out under the
provisions of the commercial code, which regulates owner-initiated bankruptcies. This



-3-
process will be supervised by the courts. Petitions for bankruptcy have ahready been filed
with the courts for 40 of these enterprises. The legal process for petitions of the remainder is
under way and is expected to be completed in a matter of a few weeks.
8.    The completion of bankruptcy procedures will take time. But we believe that it is
essential to expedite the cessation of operations of these value-subtracting enterprises, with
dismissal of their workers in the shortest time, to ensure the irreversibility of their closure.
At the same time, it will be crucial to redeploy the displaced workers and idle assets, the
extent that technology permits, by selling the assets and by assisting the dismissed workers as
described below. The redeployment of these assets and workers will increase the efficiency
of the manufacturing sector.
9.    Enterprise Isolation Program. The 70 large value-subtracting enterprises slated for
isolation cannot be closed immediately either because they provide vital services, or because
of the social and political implications of their closure, or because they are deemed to have
reasonable prospects of being restored to financial viability. The Government is now
preparing special legislation that will allow these enterprises to be subjected to a regime akin
to the reorganization process under the bankruptcy law without having to undergo the
uncertainties and delays implied by the court's supervision of the process.
10.   These 70 state-owned enterprises are divided into two separate groups: (i) Group A
which includes the electric utility, 18 district heating companies, 8 related coal mines, BDZ
(the National Railway Company), and the Sofia Transport Company, which cannot be
liquidated or privatized soon; and (ii) Group B which consists of enterprises that could, in
principle, be privatized as soon as they begin to operate in a commercially viable manner,
failing which they would be liquidated.
11.   Under the isolation regime, both groups of enterprises will be required to implement
restructuring plans to downsize, eliminate non-core businesses, and reduce redundant
employment. They will also be barred from new credit from banks and suppliers. Their
debt service obligations will be frozen until they have reached a financial conciliation
agreement with their creditors following the implementation of cost-cutting measures. In
addition, Group A enterprises will benefit from the already undertaken and new, planned
price increases augmented by explicit and direct budget subsidies where warranted and
feasible, within the macro economic constraints (e.g., district heating). Such enterprises will
be removed from the isolation program only if and when they have operated for at least two
consecutive quarters without a cash deficit (taking into account direct budget subsidies).
Group B enterprises, on the other hand, will exit the isolation program only if they are
turned around and privatized within a year, otherwise they will be liquidated.
12.   To implement the closure and isolation programs, isolated enterprises will need
adequate and timely technical assistance designed to help them prepare and implement their
restructuring plans. And the Government will require technical assistance in overseeing and
coordinating the process. We anticipate that such technical assistance will be financed with
bilateral grants (where possible) and loans from an earlier approved Technical Assistance
Loan from the Bank.



- 4 -
13.   Employee Redeployment Program. The Government is acutely aware of the social
and political cost of some 65,000 employees in enterprises and state banks losing their jobs.
The projected labor retrenchment will represent the largest mass lay off in the history of the
economic transition in Bulgaria. To alleviate these social costs, the Government has put
together a package of mitigating measures which includes: (i) active labor market programs
to retrain and redirect laid-off workers; and (ii) severance payments to retrenched workers
who lose their jobs as a result of the enterprise and banking reform program.
14.   Active Labor Market Programs. A considerable number of active labor market
programs are already ongoing in Bulgaria. These programs, both Government and donor-
financed, are being administered by the National Employment Service (NES). In recent
years, NES has focussed on developing effective mechanisms for dealing with mass lay offs.
And, in accordance with its existing mandate and programs, it is opening additional facilities
including in-plant facilities to accommodate the retrenched workers needing assistance.
15.   The Government also operates an array of redeployment programs financed through
its Unemployment and Retraining Fund (URF). The programs carried out under the URF
include: labor market information, employment counseling, job search assistance, worker
retraining, temporary public works employment, wage subsidy, and self-employment. These
ongoing activities are being strengthened and expanded to include small enterprise
development, employment creation schemes and temporary work programs in regions most
severely affected by restructuring and closure of state economic enterprises.
16.   Severance Payments. The second key area of Government's effort in mitigating the
costs of downsizing and adjustment of targeted SOEs consists of severance payments to
retrenched workers. Under the law, employers are responsible for making severance
payments to workers who are laid off. In conjunction with our enterprise reform program,
the Government has decided to pay retrenched workers a lump sum severance payment
equivalent to six times the average monthly wage of the employees with six months or more
of service in the enterprises to be closed/restructured. Employees with less than six months
service will receive three times the monthly average wage as severance pay. We have
safeguards in place to prevent the recipients of severance payment from being rehired by the
same enterprises. We intend to use the counterpart leva funds which will be freed by the
proposed loan to finance the cost of mitigating the social effects of labor retrenchment,
including, in particular, severance pay.
17.   The Privatization Program. The Government recognizes the need to accelerate
significantly the privatization program. So far, our privatization program relied heavily on the
sales method (cash privatization). Much has been accomplished in initiating the process and
opening several thousand privatization transactions. Unfortunately, however, we recognize
that the overall process has not moved at the speed that is necessary to support the
macroeconomic stability and long-term viability of the enterprise sector. Therefore, to
accelerate privatization, the Government has recently introduced a Mass Privatization Program
(MPP) and has issued vouchers to over 2.8 million citizens so far this year. The first national
voucher auction is scheduled to begin in October. Over 1000 companies with a total capital of
Lev 90 billion are to be offered in the first wave of auctions. Investment funds will be



-5-
allowedl to play a major role in the program. A fund can own up to 34 percent of the shares
of an enterprises and thus have a strong influence on corporate g ovomance. The newly-
established Securities and Stock Exchange Commission has alreakty approved prospectuses of
about 60 privatization funds.
I8.   To accolerate privatization even further, in June 1996, th  Government has decided to
privatize SOEs accounting for 50% of all SOB assets within the next year. We intend to do
so by: (a) raising the target of the MPP by including a stake gre ter than two-thirds of shares
of some of the larger enterprises in the mass privatization progr*n, and (b) facilitating cash
privatization by extending a deferred payment option to all domestic investors, with a small
down payment, a long repayment period and reduced interest ra*e, and (c) selling enterprises
to managers and workers on concessional terTns. Recent amendtientu to the privatization law
have eased the terms for worker/management buyouts. MoreovEr, valuation pro(. !dures will
be simplified, especially for small enterprises.
19.   *he set of enterprise reform measures (closures, isolatiorl and privatizationi) are
expected to help stabilize the economic situation and generate soctor-by-sector and economy-
wide productivity gains. The program should result in the elimi nation of close to 90 percent
of the negative value-added (value of output less cost of materio 1 inputs) in the state
enterprise sector. Approximately a quarter of this negative valuC added will be eliminated up
front through the liquidation of the 64 loss making enterprises. ]3lirnination of these losses and
productive redeployment of assets and workers from these enterprises will improve
producwvity and resource allocation.
20.   The reforms described above constitute an important step in accel-ating fmdarnental,
structural reforms in Bulgaria. The implementation of thse reforms will require considerable
effort by the public and the Government. But the Govemment is firmly comminred to carry
them out and believes that these reforms will establish a solid b%sis for accelerawing, private
sector-led, non-inflationary growth. The Government also believos that the timely financial
support of the World Bank will be critical in consolidating thesD reforms and ensuring their
long-term success. The support of the World Bank via the Reh biIitation Loan wIll be critical
to making possible the mitigation of the immediate social costs of adjustment. Such reforms
and the Bank's support would also set the stage for the other cc mponents of our broad reforn
efforts (particularly banking sector reform) to proceed in a timely fashion.
Sincerely yours,
Dimitar Kostov
Minister of Finance
Republic of Bulgaria



Annex 2
Page I of 3
BULGARIA: REHABILITATION LOAN
Government's Action Plan
POLICY AREA                        OBJECTIVES                           MEASURES TAKEN                       FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
I. Macroeconomic Program        Re-establish confidence and          A program of measures to stabilize the    Maintain a sustainabk fiscal and external
macroeconomic stability and promote    economy, arrest the decline in confidence    positions.
economic growth and private sector   and accelerate the process of reforms was
development.                         introduced in May 1996, after consultation
with the World Bank and the IMF.
a) Fiscal Policy             - Reduce budget deficit from 5.7% of  - Increased value added tax rate from 18 to  - Enhance efficiency of tax system and tax
GDP in 1995 to 3.1% in 1997 and      22%. Doubled excise taxes on wine and     and customs administrations by
limit the borrowing requirements of  beer, and increased taxes on hard liquor  equalizing corporate income tax rates on
the consolidated government budget.    and tobacco by 50%.                     all enterprises; reducing dividend taxes;
- Reduced non-interest real expenditures in    and restricting tax preferences.
1996 to 26.5 % of GDP by lirniting    -  Limit non-interest expenditures in 1997 to
subsidies to SOEs while allowing for     less than 28% of GDP, by further
increased social spending especially those    reducing subsidies and transfers while
associated with labor retrenchment       increasing social expenditures, wages and
policies.                                maintenance and operations.
b) Pricing Policies          - Adjust prices and tariffs in order to    - Doubled electricity tariffs to the equivalent - Increase further and maintain electricity
limit subsidies to strategic enterprises    of US3.3 cents/Kwh and increased fuel  tariffs at US3.5 cents/Kwh. Continue to
and maintain their financial viability.    prices to reflect intemational prices and  adjust fuel prices on a monthly basis in
exchange rate movements.                 line with international prices and most
recent exchange rate movement.
c)  Monetary & Foreign       - Restore confidence in the domestic    - Raised basic Central Bank interest rate to  - Limit growth of broad money to levels
Exchange Policies           currency and lower the rate of        108% (180% annualized).                  consistent with declining inflation targets
inflation.                         - Restricted foreign exchange intervention  in the context of market determined
and allowed exchange rate to depreciate b    floating exchange rate. Use more
close to 100% in the last two months.    extensively open market operations for
- Sharply lowered availability of refinancing    monetary management.
to weak banks.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
POLICY AREA                        OBJECTIVES                          MEASURES TAKEN                        FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
II. State-Owned Enterprise      Strengthen flnancial discipline in SOEs
Reforms and Privatization    and acelerate the process of
privatzation.
a) Liquidation Process       - Eliminate 25% of the losses of state-  - Filed court bankruptcy petitions for 40 of - Complete bankruptcy petitions and the
owned enterprises by liquidating     the 64 enterprises identified for closures.    liquidation of the enterprises, pursue
(either through closure or           Trustees appointed in each of the 64     privatization of remaining assets, and assist
privatization) 64 of the worst       enterprises.                             workers in process of retrenchment.
performing SOEs.
b) Isolation Process         - Isolate and re-structure 70 large and   - Identified key SOEs that will be isolated   - Have new legislation governing isolation
potentially viable state-owned       through a government process- supervised    restructuring process approved.
enterprises in order to improve their  reorganization                       - Finalize and implement individual plans to
profitability through significant  - Drafted new legislation for the process   downsize, eliminate non-core businesses
downsizing, enforcement of financial    akin to bankruptcy procedures.         and reduce red.
discipline, and management         - Sharply reduced credit to identified   - Continue to adjust prices to maintain
accountability with a view of eventual   enterprises.                         financial viability.
privatization or restoration of financial - Raised electricity tariffs and fuel prices to - Liquidate identified SOEs that are not
viability.                           improve financial viability.              turned around or privatized within two
- Established period for isolation to be no  years.
more than 24 months.
c) Privatization             - Accelerate the process of privatization - Distributed vouchers to 2.8 million  - Expand the privatization program to
through an expanded voucher 'mass    citizens.                                include SOEs accounting for 50% of all
privatization' program. Include 1000 - Scheduled first auction for October 1996.    SOE assets.
companies with total capital of Lev 90 - Established new Stock and Securities  - Enhance the mas privatization program by
billion in first wave of auctions.   Exchange Commission.                      including majority private stake position in
- Prospecnses approved for 60 privatization    large enterprises.
funds that can own up to 34 % of shares in - Facilitate cash privatization by extending a
any one company.                         deferrd payment scheme to al investor,
selling enterprise to managers and workers
on comoemional terms.
d) Labor Market Program      - Alleviate social costs associated with  - Issued the decree goveming the     - Notify and pay severance to procted
labor retrnchment under enterprise   retrenchment prograL                      65,000 workers affected by the
liquidation and isolation programs by  - Established national and rapid response  govemment program.
providing support to retrain and     teams in National Employment Service    - Use the unemployment and retraining fund
redirect laid-off workers and extend  agency to deal with layoffs and provide  and support from others donors to provide
severance payments to those affected  retraining program                      labor market information, employment
by downsizing.                     - Established the program to and affect     counselling, retraining, and small
severance payments and magnitude of      enterprise development skills to workers
payments.                                dislocated by the reform program.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
POLICY AREA                        OBJECTIVES                          MEASURES TAKEN                      FUTURE POLICY ACTIONS
tll. Banking Sector Reforms    Re-establish the soundness of the    - Closed two banks.                      - Adhere to programs outlined in
banking system through a program of                                             Memorandum of Understanding, including
closures, restructuring and improved  - Placed 3 banks in conservatorship.      prohibition of any new lending by banks
asset position, and to strengthen the role                                      with negative networth.
of supervision and improve accounting   - Approved law and established new policies
praetices.                              governing deposit guarantees.         - Adhere to program requiring banks to
achieve specified capital adequacy
- Introduced lirnited program of bank      positions under new accounting standards.
recapitalization.
- Prohibit any bank without 4% capital
- Restricted Central Bank refinancing      adequacy standard to pay dividends.
credits.
- Increase staff and training of supervisory
- Signed Memorandum of Understanding       agencies.
with IS banks to be recapitalized or with
negative net worth. Memoranda outline
targets for bank operations including goals
for loan recovery and cost cutting
measures.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Bulgaria at a glance
~~F  :3,......  -......   i. .... . .
: - :.: ,.'',' ','' .'' ' p- ' ..........  .....  ..   '.:'--.
1S76     1S86  l 1S 4$tw          O    h _        el"        N
(XG 5 Gp                                                 Gross
lied.. .. ..t....     .                                                                                       -
Servit  t. 25.5  52.7     53.2 .\
Privab concumplbn59t 81                               641     60 7     oo         \
tmor doo  cdnnao  ek                           4 2        3      451a to sf water
Femadurlne         '   't                                  9?a    1*l
STRUCTURE~~ of th ECOOM
G% dof   el GDP)t                                 -79  8   11964    29 5      low  rsq ~wI6w"Al
Agrbcufure                                      I `1.     12.7 1.conm0    ri
Serv'ioft                          25.6      52J~~*0  531
Privateconsupton                                   4.      1 4.1   8.      Sa7 nsInebia
Geneal goemmenOP  oosmpin*.                                150*4    14' NA&-O
TmpoI def gossewandxnorats  seve                  432       5311    171
(Swa   -uG,IW)   m                      1976-8  119161i    194    isw        GOmwS rmte ofeapwtnd lavsbst (%3
Agriculture                                ..    1.9        12.7    12.9     2
Industry                                   ..    46.5      34.6    33.9 
Manufactring..                                     . 
Services                                   ..      6.      52.7    53.2    -40
Private consumption                        ..    35.8      64.      60.7
Genera government consumption               ..     .5      115.0    14.5
Imports of goods and non4astor' services   ..     243.2    53.1    45.1301
(erage nannunal prodct-32                                     .33)
Thndustry    hw                             ..ke ndao  I hecugr n od -4.9p    -4.0h    0.0 @no1ru ava. 9dsw   i"   w Wv
Prvae nconsmptin                            .    -38        17       .



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria
PmCu nd oovsmw PiUeC
-1       .        13       13 66
Conrmnpt                                      ..      .. pa6.0    62.6
h,llidtOodelr                                ..    -12       82A      50.5
oDVWmment 9h,mce'
(%of GDP)
Cunrint  enuw                                 ..    562       37.7    362
Cuew  budg banoe                              ..     02        -4.7     4                U      t    U      U     S     U
Ovwal aupkM a                                 ..     0.0       4.0      4.7    I                    . _CP
TRADE
(nmoa USS)                                                                            t  d  kg I bw|In.U#$
Toal upote (lob)                              ..  10,        4,19    4,652      Is"
Oter mt                                      ..   2,125     1,063    1,146       t-
Othwr1colture                               ..   1,731      1,135   11,2r6
_tnfnus                                      ..      ..        ..       .. 
Total hmpde (ON)                              ..  11.135     4.00D    4,316
Import pJO* ldi (198710                       ..     1         132      141                      I    a  
Tems of trade (17100)                         ..    161         73       73                   oEU    HN mbpa
SAANCE of PAYMIT
(nin  US$)                                 1373    1W         1364    1W Cm _asaMubalanetoOP raftl%)
Exporf opod.  d nn dreo                       ..  11,761     5,427     3,6         .
Imporbs of goode    nonW Sc                   ..  11,72      5,411    5.3
Resource bance                                ..   -112         16      486        S
Neot rlo hm,                                  ..   -101       -211    -577
Not rI'nzbtni  s                             ..      74       175      106     43
CuFrent accowud boala  e4
befe otoW tr     m                           ..      ..      -21       16
FinancIng lNWm (net)                          ..       ..      227      436      4
Change I not                                  ..   -423       -206     410
Uwueo :                                                                          ___
Rwn     nludn Vgold (mK US)                   ..      ..    1,311    1,518
Con  lo(n Fte IcaUNS)                         ..      1.      63.7      7.8
EXTERNAL DEBT ed RESOURCE PLOW
filu USSJ ~~~~137                        166       133      136zf4llH "
(ffn1,n  USS)                                                                    CampodUs of UNW d.bt 1664 ImUl. U53)
ToWt dM oubstnd  end dlsbud                  20    3.352    12,326   10,516                      0   A
ORD                                         0        0       15U      420                     54 420    c
IDA                             ~ ~~          ~~~~0  0  0   0                                941
Tota delbt svi                                2    1,178       295      732                                      D
IIRD                                        0        0        12       16                      \019
IDA                             ~ ~~~~~0  0         0       0
Campoo d nat r_aecurs t
OlRo4Wm                                     0        0        47      102 \
Oilolrgdtor                                 0       74         6      281                                     1452
Prste rediors                              1      U17       -34    .467
Fotrelg dlred _weu                          0        0        so      106            F
PO, dobquit 0                                       0         0        6
World 1nr program
Commitmnt                                   0        0       178      176      A-NM                         E-Um
0       0         3      246       1-1A    O - OhWs,uuetu      F-t r    .
PrInotplsinrw                               0        0         0        0      C-r                           -
Ndt fh                                      0        0         3      246
hb ieredpm!0 e                              0        0        12       15
Not Nlodo                                   0        0        4       230
hbrnaIon  EconIes Dspwhu                                                                                           4'11



Annex 4
B.bqrts -Page  1 of  2
MO        urns      im        urn       1DM        im         rni                            am       3 26
A. In cum   Fae      LCU.
GDPrAr _kdpruk                      454       231.1     206.0     239       543.0      W.5    1416.8    20133        2749      41253    200423
Nd hiemt Tauem                     -1.9       5.7       12.2      14S       52.1       9.       161.2     2313       334.4     435.2    2467.2
GDP Fait rOwCt                     473       1253      190.7     n43       495.9     7454      12553.6    171.7    2540.6    3640.4   17575.2
Agrkbe                             3.1      20.1      21.2      17.2      069       107.9     135.       2643      376.9     538.2     50.0
hIskooy                          233        52.1      90i      103.2      13m       2343      480.1      673.9     960.9    1172.1    6743.9
diuh mh m1in1                     NA       NA         NA        NA        NA        NA         NA        NA        MA         NA        NA
S8tv                              14.1      4.1       *4.0      U.S       2U.7      4463      751.1    1069.9    1537.1    2215.2   12790.6
Rm e, Bmldmee                       -1.6       104       -7.2     -25.        0.9       41.7      30.2     103.2      115.9     126.4     434.9
. (MMS                            16.7      544       1243      160.7     290.7     401.0      706.1    1002.6    1200.0    1430.0    601.5
Eh_t (<N8                          15.0      64.3      1173      135.2     291.6     442.7      763      1105.3    1315.9    1556.5    64963
Tb Epamam                           47.0      120.7     210.1     3243      547.1      796.3    U36.6    1910.0    2759.0    3999.1   19607.5
C      _mmojiha                     35A4        4.1     164S      26.3      433A4      21.9    1055.3    14963       20013     2991.0   1530.3
3_3      203       333       51.6       82.2     121.6     202.6      27.9      4023      5673     270.7
Paivas                             27.2      63.5      1313      2153      351.2     5003       353.2    12104      1599.0    2423.7   13115.1
GasDomshIa                          11.6       3A.6      453       57.6     113.7      174.9     230.3     411.7      757.6    100M.1    376.7
Goval_                              1.0       1.1        4.9       74       13.0      20.1       32.1      47.1      UA        117.0     430.6
N  .a*mmt                           8.7      23.0       344       523       92.1      141.7     226.6     33.0      624.2      826.5    3041.9
TOWhl fixod hvm                     9.7      24.t       393       60.0     10W.2      161.7     25366     380.2     7123       943.5    32.5
TOdIhve       a _  c                2.0       11.1       6.0      -23        36        13.1      22.2      31.6      45.1       64.7     314.2
Domic A  '9                         10.0      47.0      38.1      32.1      114A      216.5     361.0      515.0     3.5    1134.6    4221.7
+ NodtP ab bar, (NFY)             -3.6     -11A        43.7      -5i      -11.2     -319       -55.2     403       -23       -101.1    -233.5
+N  Owre Trmhg CVi                 0.7       13        1.0        1.0       94        39       17.1       23.2      263       30.2      96.3
Niuu 318hp                          7.1       36.6      354       273       112.1     193.6     322.9     457.7      3073     1063.6    4037.0
*Ow  N_A P tod                      41S       119.5     199.2     293.1     IN.8       36.6    1361.      1932.3     2323      40244    1909.0
Oax NaIqo D*bs        ciyo          42.5      120.7     20.2      294.1     546.2       15.5    1373.6    1956.0    239.0    4054.6   19907.3
B. absem of GDI (nconrat mke)
GDP tD markat pk                   100.0      10.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0     I00.0      100.0    I0.0      1O0.0
NotIetTjjm                         -4.2       44         6.0       4.9       93        11.1      114       11.5      11.6       11.3      123
Askpml  vab added                 17.7      15.4      13.9      124        12.7      12.9      13.1      13.1       13.1      13.0       2.5
r           roiy vak. added      513        48.0      44.7      363       34.6       33.9      339       33.7       334       333       33.6
ofWW& Uin,aebakg                NMA        KA         NA        N         NA        NA         MA        NA        NA        NA        NA
Seivia. yoe addad                 31.0      36.7      414       51.0      52.7       53.2      53.0      53.1       535       53.7      63.8
Rn3.m Balsm                         -3.6        79       433       43         0.2        5.0       5.7       5.1       4.0        3.1       2.2
h   i (GNFP                        36.7      413        613       53.7      53.1      47.8      49.8       49.8      41.7      34.7       30.2
ExOd (OIH4                         33.1      49A4       37.       45.2      53.2      52.5       5535      54.9      45.3       37.7      324
Told Expm_iare                     103.6       92.1     1063      1035       99.3       95.0      943       94.9      96.0       96.9      97.3
Omam _eoe.uEim                     18.2      15.7       16.5      17.2      15.0      143        143       143       14.0       13.1      13.5
Paivaoawmda                        59.3      485        64.7      72.0       24.      529.7      60.2      60.1      55.6       51.7      GSA
GJOVerau.ed  myg,                   2.2        1A        24        235       24        24         23        2.3       3.1        2.3       2.1
N1oovine iav a.                    19.1       173       17.0      17.6      Idi        16.9      16.0      16.5      21.7       20.0      15.2
rows D icd  Sins                    22.0      35.8      13.3       10.7      20.9      25.3      255        25.6      304       273       21.1
Grov Notgl S rmp                    15.5      21.0      I7i        9.1       204       23.1      22.3       22.7      2.1       25.8      20A
(In N      _a1a Prodoa              92.1       91.2      96.2      96.1      ".0       ff.2       96.1      96.0      MA.2       975       96.3
Gmeh NIalD_oubbbm                   93. 6      92.1      96.7      964        9.7       973       9733      97.2      97.7       963       993
PWm hike. (S_ ebe)
GDP defir                          26.2     226.9       64.7      53.7      80.1      50.0       63.9      40.0      40.0      40.0       20.0
C     pike kda                     64.0     23.9        82.6      72.3      96.0      52.6       63.9      40.0      40.0       40.0      20.0
Tdal GDP (pEhcmcwra US3)         20726.5    7367.7   3,65.2   108333    A199.4  12,3664   11,51U.7  12,422.1   15.9513   2067244   37209.5
Cven adwr and ,CU/13*                2.2       17.3      253       27A       53.7       67.3     123.0     162.1     130.2      20.0      538.6
Pwcqmke3maikea2probl               2,180      15        1,30      1,172     1,63       1,340        ..        ...
(Ada ulod:  1967 USS
m:VbuWaftfANXEXI.XLS                                                                                                      7imem P



Annex 4
augw1ia                                                Page 2 of 2
R&DEiINVIn Lem
Ng_AMmah                                                           Cl Page 2
19        1" 19                19         194        199       19         1           1996     1999       2006
C. in C   ent 1"9  P.m r      LCUs)
GDP atai pdIm                         454       40.1       37.7      36.1       366        37.3      374        37.9       38.7      39.6       49.6
ODP atPow Cot                       47.3       37.7       33.8      32.5       29.5       21.9      28.7       29.0       29.5      30.1       37.2
Agri_Iha                            *.1       .7        8.0        7.3       7.6        7.8        7.9       8.1        8.2        8.4      10.3
hwaay                              23.3      18.9       17.6       16.1      15.5       15.5       15.5      15.6       15.8       16.1      204
of wid     mAug                     ..        ..          .         ..        ..         ..        ..  
Sarvis.                            14.1      12.5       12.1       12.7      13.6       14.1       13.9      14.2       14.6       15.1      18.9
R_MfadI                               -1.6       3.2        2.8        1.8       3.4        4.8       4.6        4.7        4.9        5.1       6.5
_ tm(GMV)                            16.7       5.8        8.0       8.7        7.9        8.2       7.8        8.2        8.6       9.1       12.2
Bqmts (ONI                           15.0       9.0       10.7      10.5       11.3       13.0      12.4       12.9       13.6      14.1       18.7
TOWl Zxp3.A.                          47.0      36.9       34.9       34.3      33.2       32.6      32.8       33.2       33.8       34.6      43.1
Coimapmm                              354       25.3       26.1      26.8       24.8       24.0      24.6       24.6       22.6      23.9       32.8
Owart                                *.3        7.3        6.7       6.7        5.9        5.8       5.7        5.8        5.8       5.8        7.2
Privis                              27.2       18.2       19.4      20.2       18.9       18.2      18.9       18.8       16.8      18.1       25.6
Grg  DomuikIany.m.                    11.6      11.3        8.8       7.5        .4 A.6               8.2        8.5       11.2       10.7      10.3
Oovuci                               1.0        0.6        1.0       1.0        1.1        1.1       1.1        1.2        1.2       1.3        1.4
N       r                            8.7        7.2        6.6       6.9        6.6        6.7        63        6.6        9.2       8.6        7.9
TdI fixed kv     -                   9.7        7.7        7.6       7.9        7.6        7.8        74        7.8       10.4       9.9        9.4
TOa ihenv_ iias                      2.0        3.6        1.2   4 0.4          0.7        0.7       0.7        0.8        0.8       0.8        1.0
Term ofd (ha&  ) uiMet                0.0       -2.1      -3.2       -3.2      -34        -3.9       -3.7      -3.9       -4.1       -4.3      -5.6
Or. dam_ih WANE                      45A        38.0      34.5       32.9      33.2       33.4       33.6      34.0       34.6       354       44.0
D-Mfti  .v  (rraITs*m                10.0       12.4        S4        6.1        84        94         9.0       9.4       12.0       11.5      11.2
Not hor imom                           -4        -4         -1         -1        -1         -1         -1        -2         -1         -1        -1
(MP at kd Wpri                         42        37         37        35         36         36        36         36         37        39         49
D. Annua md  a. (199 mi
GDPuat=rkAp.ieo                      -9.1      -11.7       -6.0      -4.2        1.4        2.0       0.0        1.5        2.0       2.5        3.3
Agirkul   -                        -3.7       7.7       -7.7       -9.0       4.0        3.0        1.8       1.8        1.8       2.0        3.0
Iahaiay                           -12.5     -18.6       -7.0       4.5       -4.0        0.0       0.0        1.0        1.1       2.0        3.5
dwhic Mu&cawhg                    NA         NA        NA         NA         NA        NA         NA        NA         NA         NA        NA
8eevic                             -6.1     -11.3       -3.3        5.3       6.8        3.7      -0.9        1.9        3.1       3.3        3.2
-   (GNF)                           -69.5     -65.4       37.9       9.6       -9.9       4.6       -5.7        5.6        5.4       5.0        4.4
E--t (ONP8)                         -71.4 A    40.2       19.3      -2.2        7.5       15.1      .4.9        4.6        4.8       4.2        4.1
TelaIE _pinr.                         -9.8     -21.6       -5.3       -1.7      -3.3       -1.8       0.6        1.3        1.7       2.5        3.3
*      -rfdm                         5.1      -27.9        2.3       2.7       -7.4      -3.3        2.5        0.2       4.4        6.1        3.3
hvci                                -37.0      -2.3      -22.3     -14.7       11.4        2.5      -4.         4.7      31.0       -4.9        3.3
*r3a  d.Aiio hmom                    -9.5      -16.3      -9.3       .4A        0.8        0.7        0.6       1.2        1.7        2.3       3.2
orn drMON& my.                      -394        24.7     -32.9      -26.6      37.0       12A4       4.1        3.8       28.2      .4.8        3.0
Pe Caks mvwth air
Pw pchpaGDP )                         -5.4     -11.0       -5.3      -3.7        1.7        2.2       0.5        1.9        2.5       2.9        3.7
Pw eqopa NW cmwde.                    9.4     -274         3.0        3.3      -7.1       -3.1       3.0        05        4.0        6.5      -14.2
Pere OpAprivaieocau.dea               -6.8     -324         7.6       4.2       -5.7       -3.7       4.2        0.1      -10.5       8.4        3.6
E. Perird A1asm Indkolm                      194-8    1969-4    1994-"
Magihl *    n uwav  rat                         -0.1        0.5        1.2
ImmeasmI cvqWia pt sdo                           0.0       -4.5       14.8
pet edl*                                        -0.2       2.0        1.8
m:VxuWadMXEXI .XLB                                                                                                              7MOOt.37 PM



Annex 5
Bulgaria
E4-f -d Ipoir                                                               C2
adual                                                         ptelection
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994       1999      1996       1997       1996       1999       2006
A. Value in Currmnt cries tUSS ( Ilons)
Total Merhandise Exports (FOB)       3,743      3,141      3,956      3,727      4,159     5,110      4,950      5,242      5,566      5,914      9,186
PrhNkfy products                    2,270      1,660      2,026      2,030     2,194      2,411      2,564      2,765      2,981      3,209     4,815
CP.X.MBT.X                        1,380        890        978       980       1,059     1,145      1,238      1,335      1,439      1,549      2,588
CP.X.OAGRI                          890        770      1,048      1,050      1,135      1,266     1,326      1,430      1,542      1,660      2,226
cr.                                   ..............
Manufactured goods                                                ..              ..         ..         ..         ..              ..
Other goods                         1,473      1,481      1,930      1,697     1,965      2,699      2,386      2,477      2,585      2,705     4,372
Tot Merchandise Imi    (CIF)         4,661      2,491      4,169      4,612      4,008     4,679      4,501      4,865      5,222      5,584      8,674
Food                                  150        358       942       1,042       906      1,057      1,017      1,099      1,180      1,262      1,960
Other Conomer Goods                   529        167       429        475        413        482        464        501       538        575        893
POL and Odher Enegy                 1,392        495      1,026      1,135       986      1,151      1,107      1,197      1,285      1,374     2,134
Intermediate Goods D.e.i.             884        208       567        627        545        636        612        662       710        759       1,180
Primay Goods                         884       208        567        627        545        636        612       662        710        759      1,180
Manufactwued Goods                                          ..        ..         ..         ..         ..         ..              ..
Capital Goods                       1,706      1,263      1,205      1,333     1,158      1,352      1,301      1,406      1,509      1,614     2,507
B. Value In Constant 19S7 Priete IUSS mIlons)
Toal Merchandue Expors (FOB)         7,061      7,892      4,215      3,986     4,315      4,619      4,776      4,959      5,157      5,356     7,103
KP.X.MET.X                          2,659     2,972      1,587      1,501      1,625      1,739      1,799     1,867      1,942      2,017      2,275
KP.X.OAGRI                          2,354     2,632      1,405      1,329      1,439      1,540      1,593     1,653      1,720      1,786      2,014
KP.                                   ..                                          0          0          0          0          0          0         0
K.P.                                                                    ..        0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Manufctures                             0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
Other Exports                       2,048      2,289      1,222      1,156     1,251      1,339      1,385      1,438      1,496      1,553     2,814
Toal Merchandise Import (CIF)       11,593     18,451      3,249      3,608      3,041     3,134      3,176      3,366      3,539      3,699     4,905
Food                                  517        823       145        161        136        140        142        150       158        165        186
Other Consumer Goods                  994      1,583       279        309        261        269        m          289       304        317        357
POL and Other Eney                  1,569      2,498       440        488        412        424        430       456        479        501        563
ntermediateGoods n.e.i.             1,168      1,859       327        363        306        316        320       339        356        373        419
Primay Goods                       1,168      1,859       327        363        306        316       320        339        356        373       419
Manufactured Goods                    .          ..        ..         ..          .
Capital Goods                       7,345     11,689      2,058      2,286      1,927     1,986      2,012      2,132      2,242      2,343     3,380
Memorandum Itenm:-
Exportvolumnegrowthrate              -32.6       11.8      .46.6       .5.4        8.3       7.0        3.4        3.S        4.0        3.9      12.8
Import vohune growth rte (CIF)         3.0       59.2      -82.4       11.1     -15.7        3.1        1.3        6.0        5.1        4.5      12.5
C. Price Indies (1967   100)
MerchandiseExport                      53         40        94         93         96        111        104        106       108        110        129
Mercbandie Import                      40         13        128       128        132        149        142       145        148        151        177
MerchandiaeTermsofTrade               132        295        73         73         73         74         73        73         73         73         73
D. Non-Factor Servne
(indices bae 1987 = 10U
Exporl of NFS - vobue index              2          1          1        10          5          7         -1          7         8          5          3
Export of NFS - price index              0          0        237       236        244        254        262        267       273        279        327
Impcxt of NFS - volume index             I          I          1         4         12        -16         -3          4         7          7          5
Impots of NFS - price index              0          0        279       278        286        299        306        314        320       328        384
m:%butnauliWMNXEX1 .XLS                                                                                                           718V2:37 FM



Annex 6
Bulgafla
ReaabI*sSms La",
BDaaM   ePsjmsas  (ABUtSd US1[)                                                     C3
aetual                                                       uproleedon
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994       1995      1996       1997       1996       1999 -200
Toal Exports of 0N1S                 4,433      3,559      5,026      4,898      5,427     6,530      6,393      6,823      7,301      7,781     12,061
Mercbhdi (FOB)                      3,743      3,141      3,956      3,727     4,159      5,110      4,950      5,242      5,566      5,914      9,186
Nan-Factor Services                   691        418      1,070      1,172      1,268     1,420      1,443      1,581      1,735      1,867      2,875
TOW bnmpour of ONPS                  5,165      2,991      5,334      5,823      5,411     5,915      5,741      6,186      6,658      7,149     11,253
Merhadie (FOB)                      4,660      2,491      4,169      4,612     4,008      4,679      4,501      4,S65      5,222      5,584      8,674
Non-FwAcor Services                   504        300      1,165      1,211      1,403     1,236      1,240      1,321      1,436      1,565      2,579
RecoureBalane                         -731        569       -308      -925         16        615        652        637        643        632       807
Nd Factor Income                      -613      -1,163      -159      -210       -208       -470       -449       496        -513       -505      -433
Factor reccipb                        110         62        62         93         84        150        113         89        116       103        152
Fctor Paymcats                        723      1,230       221        303        292        620        562        586       629        608        585
Total Ineret DUE (sched )          510        159        990        803        391       596        531        546        556        519        402
Interst Paid                      452       104        990        S03        391        596        531       546        556        519        402
Due but not paid                  58         55          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Other Factor Paymnts               213       1,071      -769       -500        -99        24         31         40         73         89        183
NdprivateCu'rcntTranfera               113         70         43        37        174        132        139        143        147        151       183
CurrctkReceips                       200        124        114        286       348        132        139        143        147        151        183
of whicb wo,ter' rcniuancea          0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0
Current Pyments                      -87        -54        -71       -249      -173          0          0          0          0          0         0
Net offical curret tmnsfers              0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0         0          0
Current Aecount Balasc              -1,231      -530       -424     -1,098        -18       277        342        284        77         277        557
Official capitalgrant                   0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0
Private investment (net)                 4         56        42         55        100         82        100        350        200       200        200
Direct Investmeat                       4         56        42         55        100         82        100       350        200        200        200
Porfolio inve bnent                     0          0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0
Net LT Borrowing                         3        276        322         9        476       -118       -233        -14       -281      -232       -m
Disbursanets per DRS                 S76       391        461        152        554         67       235        263        257        282        299
LT Repaymnts (schduled              872        114        138        143       336        185        468        277       538        514        571
Pricipal repaid                   872        114       138        143        336        185       468        277        538        514        571
Due butnorpaid                      0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0
Other log-term bflows (net)            0          0          0          0       257          0          0          0          0          0         0
Adjustnents to Schoduled debt wrvie     58         55          0         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0
Debt Servicenotpaid                   58         55          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Reductioan im arr/prepatymm(-)         0          0          0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Other Capital Flows (nct)              755        272        468       719       -348        189       -462       -378      -328       -107         30
NotShort-Term (ST) Csphl               0          0       -143          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          1
Capitl Plows n.e..                     0          0        616       719       -348        189       -46?.      -378       -328       -107        29
Erromn cmd nissians                  755        m            0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0         0
Chage in no intemn'l reserves          411       -130      .408        315       -209       -430        254       -242        132      -139       -515
(- indicates increae in assets)
Memorandum Itemn:
Toal Grors Rceerves, of which          702        832      1,240       969       1,311      1,476     1,197      1,619      1,406      1,386     2,749
Tots Rcesrves minus geld               ..                               ..        ..         ..         ..         ..
Gold (at yeor end London price)                                    ..                   ..         ..        ..         ..         ..
Totl Gros Resrvc in manthi mpo          1.6       3.3        2.8        2.0        2.9        3.0       2.5        3.1        2.5        2.3        2.9
Exch-e roe
Annual Aveage (LCU/US$)               2.2       17.8      23.3       27.6       53.7       67.8      123.0      162.1     180.2      200.0      538.6
At end year (LCU/USS)                 2.2       21.8      24.5       32.7       65.0       79.3      143.9      189.6     210.9      234.0      630.2
miexre rlavcryoX-Rste(1991-1           ..      100.0      117.7     178.5         ..         ..         ..        ..
CurrentAccount lalnce as % ODP         -5.9      -7.2       -4.9      -10.1       -0.2        2.2       3.0        2.3        1.7        1.3        1.5
m:AbuPWaliAANXEX1 .XLS                                                                                                            7w0e3 PM



Annex 7
Budsaria                                            Page  1  of  2
RahabU&*n Lm
Edara Dh  SSNk and _wm *(Mku   t US$)                                          C4 Page 1
1990      1991       1992      1993      1994       1996      1996       1997      19S        1999      2006
A. Gros Dabbunemeub
Publc & Pubicly Omrateed          875.6      390.9     264.0       53.4     549.0      67.0      234.6     263.0      256.9     282.0      299.0
a. Mukilaerl                    43.7      261.2      92.0       214      347.0       27.0     152.6     189.0      138.9     152.0      189.0
of which IBRD                0.0      58.2       92.0       3.0      243.0       0.0      129.6     150.0      68.7       83.5     105.0
of which EBRDIE1B            0.0       0.0        0.0      IS.4      104.0      27.0      23.0       39.0      70.2       68.5      84.0
b. Bilaterl                      36.4      10.3      172.0      32.0      202.0      40.0       82.0      74.0       68.0      80.0      60.0
Priva creditor                  795.5      119.4       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      50.0       50.0      50.0
of which bonds                   64.5       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
PrivateNon4xursnted                 0.0        0.0     196.6       98.3       5.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Totl LoDg-Term Diburemts          875.6      390.9     460.6      151.7     554.0       67.0     234.6     263.0      256.9     282.0      299.0
Net Sbot-TenM Cpital                0.0        0.0    -147.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        OA        0.4       0.4        0.5
EMP Pua                             0.0      395.8     282.0      44.0      324.6       0.0      220.0     293.3       73.3       0.0        0.0
Todl Dium. (LT+flBS+ST)           875.6     786.7      595.0     195.7      878.6      67.0     454.6      556.7     330.6      282.4     299.5
D. Amocdtio
PublicAPublkcly Ouant             872.4      114.4      41.0        6.0     263.3      97.0      323.0     236.7      531.0     507.0      571.5
a. Muilel                       29.9       24.3       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      19.0       33.7      65.3       82.6     151.6
of which IBRD                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       19.0      33.7      43.3       50.6     114.1
of wbich EBD/EIB             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      22.0       32.0      37.5
b. BiLatual                       0.7       0.7       22.0       6.0        6.0      77.0       96.0     151.0      413.7     392.4      105.2
Private credir                   841.8      89.4      19.0        0.0     257.3       20.0     208.0       52.0      52.0       32.0     314.7
of which bonds                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      20.0      208.0      52.0       52.0      32.0       0.0
Private N      cn-Oua,aited         0.0        0.0      97.4      137.0      72.4      88.0      145.0      40.0        7.0       7.0        0.0
Total Long-Trm Amoiations         872.4      114.4     138.4      143.0     335.7     185.0      468.0     276.7      538.0     514.0      571.5
IMFR qurchases                      0.0        0.0      S5.0        0.0      65.0     246.0      225.0      94.0      134.0     137.0        0.0
Toal Amofeiatins (LTT+IMR)        872.4     114.4      223.4     143.0     400.7      431.0     693.0      370.7     672.0      651.0     571.5
C. Nd Disbcnements
Public A Publicly Cuuamteod         3.2      276.5     223.0      47.4      285.7     -30.0      -S84       26.3    -274.1    -225.0    -272.5
a. Mukilateal                    13.8     236.9      92.0       21.4     347.0       27.0     133.6      155.3      73.6       69.4      37.4
of which IBRD                0.0      58.2       92.0       3.0      243.0       0.0      110.6     116.3      25.4       32.9      -9.1
of whic BBRRD/BIB            0.0       0.0        0.0      18.4      104.0      27.0      23.0       39.0      48.2       36.5      46.5
b. Bilaal                        35.7       9.6      150.0      26.0      196.0     -37.0      -14.0     -77.0    -345.7    -312.4       45.2
Private creditor                -46.3       30.0      -19.0       0.0    -257.3      -20.0    -206.0      -52.0      -2.0       18.0    -264.7
of which bonds                   64.5       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0     -20.0    -208.0      -52.0      -52.0     -32.0        0.0
Private No-uaranted                0.0        0.0      99.2      -38.7     -67.4      48.0    -145.0      -40.0       -7.0      -7.0        0.0
ToWllmLg-Term NotDib.               3.2      276.5     322.2        8.7     218.3    -118.0    -233.4      -13.7    -281.1    -232.0    -272.5
Not Sho9Term Capil                  0.0        0.0    -147.6        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       04         0.4       0.4        0.5
Not ue of MP Credt                  0.0      395.8     197.0       44.0     259.6    -246.0       -5.0      199.3     -60.7    -137.0        0.0
Toa not Disba. (LT+IMF+9T)          3.2     672.3      371.6      52.7      477.9    -364.0    -238.4      186.0    -341.4    -368.6    -271.9
D. Intt
Public A Publicly OGued           451.7      103.6     955.0      695.0     309.5      476.4     451.8     475.4      483.1     458.1      405.2
a. Muilaeal                      13.3      49.3      89.0       48.7      27.4       54.5      57.5       66.0      75.0      79.3       87.0
of which IBD                 0.0       0.0        6.0      22.3      26.1       46.3      47.3       54.2      60.4       61.2      52.7
of which EBRD/EIB            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.3       8.7      10.6       12.3      15.0       18.5      34.3
b. Bilateral                      0.3       0.5       75.0     101.1       96.9     132.5      126.3     132.3      131.5      97.6       12.7
Puivai ecditar                  438.1       53.8     791.0      545.2     185.2      2894      268.1      27.1      276.7      281.3     305.5
of wbih bonds                    15.5       10.3      15.0      22.0       22.0      22.0       20.0       7.0        4.0       1.0        0.0
Privaft N on-3uasateed              0.0        0.0       0.0       47.2      16.0       9.0        4.0       3.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Interest n Lt-Tesm T        451.7      103.6     955.0      742.2     325.5      485.4     455.8     478.4      483.1     458.1      405.2
Interest en S9od-Tea. Debt         58.0       49.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1        0.3
DO Cahues                           0.0        6.1      35.0       60.6      65.7      110.6      75.2      67.4       73.3      60.8       -3.2
Toal lIow   (LT T+IF+SI)          509.7     158.7      990.0     802.       391.2     596.0      531.0     545.9     556.5      519.0     402.4
m:%buossJiikANXEX1 .XL8                                                                                                      7I02:37 PM



Annex 7
Bulgaria                                             Page  2  of  2
R.habg*lots LAM,
Edero DDa  USwe andFlow (mwu ef US$P                                              C4 Puga 2
acua                                                        roFctIion
1991      1991       1992       1993       1994       1995      199        1997       1994       1999       2006
E. Riternal Debt
Public & Publicly  uarnteed        9816.6    9990.4   10854.3   11247.7    9090.8    9099.3    9010.9    9037.2    8763.1    8538.1    6277.3
a. Multael                       615.9     852.1      773.3      833.3    1219.3    1284.8    1418.4    1573.7    1647.3    1716.8    1200.2
of wbich IBRD                 0.0       60.5      152.0     155.0      398.0      398.0      508.6      624.9      650.3     683.2      671.4
of which B1RD/IBD             0.0        0.0       0.0       18.4      122.4      149.4      172.4      211.4      259.6     296.2      528.8
b. Bilatemal                    1045.9    1160.7    1475.0    1525.0    1740.0    1703.0    1689.0    1612.0    1266.3             953.9      117.1
Private creditor                 8154.8    7977.6    8606.0    S889.4    6131.5    6111.5    5903.5          5S51.5    5849.5    5867.5    4960.0
a. Bonds                         327.3      339.6      351.0      351.0     351.0      331.0      123.0       71.0       19.0      -13.0      -31.0
Private Ncouaraoteed                 0.0        0.0      631.0      592.3      524.9      436.9      291.9     251.9      244.9      237.9      228.9
Total 1.g-Term DOD                 9816.6    9990.4   11485.3   11840.0    9615.7    9536.2    9302.8    9289.1          9008.0    8776.0    6506.2
Sho,-Term Debt                     1054.7    1569.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.4        0.7        1.1        4.2
Uwe olfMP Credit                      0.0     413.7      589.0      633.0      902.0      656.0     651.0      850.3      789.7      652.7      -51.6
TOl DOD (LT+IMF+ST), of which    10871.3   11973.4   12074.3   12473.0   10517.7   10192.2    9953.8   10139.8    9798.4    9429.8    6458.8
Principal Arrea                     355.9    1443.3    5024.5    5984.7           ..         ..        ..         ..
Indtcra Arem                      225.1      766.3      796.0      516.6         ..         ..        ..         ..
F. Debt and debt Burden Indicators:
Total debt scrvice (mil USS)         1382.1     273.1     1213.4      945.8      791.9    1027.0    1224.0       916.6    1228.4    1170.0        973.8
lterest (LT + ST + IMI)           509.7      158.7      990.0     802.8      391.2      596.0      531.0      545.9      556.5      519.0     402.4
Pr-cipal (LT + IMF)                 872.4     114.4      223.4      143.0      400.7      431.0      693.0     370.7      672.0      651.0      571.5
For total DOD and Total debt  rnice (1S):
DOD/ExportsofNFS                    245.2     336.4      240.2      254.7      193.8      156.1      155.7     148.6      134.2      121.2       53.6
DOD/ GIDP                            52.5     162.5      138.9      115.1      103.1       82.4       86.4      81.6       61.4       45.7       17.4
TDS/Expons of ONFS                   31.2       7.7       24.1       19.3       14.6       15.7       19.1      13.4       16.8       15.0        S.1
EBRD exposure Inricators:
IBRD Debt Service/PubLic DS           0.0       0.0        0.5        2.9        3.7        5.0        6.2      10.1        8.5        9.6       17.1
Pref Creditor D/Public Ds             0.0       2.7       11.3       10.9       22.5       44.3      35.1       29.9       28.5       31.0       24.2
IBRD DS/Expoe of GNFS                 0.0       0.0          0        0.5        0.5        0.7        1.0       1.3        1.4        1.4        1.4
Cttxy Sham ian BRD Porfolio           0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1        0.1       0.1        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.3
m:AbuI%amJi#VAXEX 1 .XLS                                                                                                          7AMea37 PM



Bulgari                                       Annex  8
1S*W&dm Lemn
Pbk Ab.. (&L LCV)                                                               CB
im         1191       im        ism         1994       1m         19su       1ir 123,316
ToWd Curremt R-aues                      24         55         71        111        220        302        514        742       1064       1513       7511
Ditect                                  9         28         21         31         63         31        128        175        250        359       1712
Indirectta                                        20         31         52        109        147        260        3J5        566        821       4170
On domestic goods sd wvie             8         IS         27         43         94        126        219        323        413        711       3717
On hatmt    trade                     0          2          4          9         15         21         41         62    U 3            103        453
Nn-Tax Receip                           6          8         19         28         49         74        126       1I1         248        333       1560
Toal Curern   xpomdlurs                  27         64         S7        131        243        340        565        770       1101       1551       714S
haute on exzunalddot                   0          1          3          3          7         23         47         67         76         S6         21
lnte a domestic debt                   0          S         10         25         67         96        171        169        211        264       1037
Tnalfe to priwvaectar                 10         25         33         52         77         96        160        252        36S        521       2637
Trufna to dw NFPS                      0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Subsidie                               7          5          4          6          1          9         11          I         11         16         12
Crnumptim                             10         24         37         52         U          115       176        274        434        657       3364
Wages md slsrie                      2          7         12         19         29         39         Ss         95        141        202       1009
Odoercoauaphien                      a         is         26         33         56         76        IIS        179        293        455       2355
BDdgda  gaviup                           -3         -8         -9        -27        -23        -31        -52        -28        -37        -38        364
Capm Rew.uss                              0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Totl CapbalE ,zpsmd                       1          3          6          6          9          9         16         24         43         71        366
Capitaltrenss                           0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Budgetmy fixed iteveima                 1          3          6          6          9          9         16         24         43         71        366
Overal balsee (- - de                    -4        -11        -14        -33        -32        48         -67        -52        -S0       -109         -2
Seresaof  llnaadn(+)                      4         11         14         33         32         48         67         52         S0        109          2
Offtwia CiaaGrab                         0          0          0         0           0         0           0          0          0          0          0
Extenl Borwieg (^                       -2         11          9         -1          6        -19        -34        -45        -50        -55       -100
Moetaz SyaN Cmedit (1e0                  6        39         37         104         13         -7        101         97        129        164          0
Odier Domtscb Bowg                       0        -39       -31        -71         -57        74           0          0          0          0        102
Shame o GDP at corret nue
Cumrnat revenue                       52.3       42.3       38.3       37.2       40.2        36.0      36.3        36.8       37.0       36.7       37.5
Cimt expediure                        58.9       48.7       42.7       46.2       44.3       40.5        39.9       38.2       38.3       37.6      35.7
Budgeay savigs                         4.0        44         -4.3       -9.0      -4.1       -4.6        -3.6       -1.4       -1.3       -0.9        1.1
Capit revenues                         0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Capit  expaditu-                       3.1        2.0        2.8         1.9        1.6        1.1        1.1        1.2        1.5        1.7        1.3
Oveall Balano (- - de"e               -9.1        4.4       -7.1      -10.9       -5.5        -5.7      -4.7        -2.6       -2.3       .2.7        0.0
Official capitl sr                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Extal BWMriCg v                      -4.4        1.0        4.5       -OA         1.1       -2.2       -24         -2.2      -1.7        -1.3      -0.5
)dAe       Syd cb4it c               12.9       30.0       13.1       34.9       15.1       -0.9        7.1        4.1        4.5        4.0        0.0
Odir  Dome" Bwig                      0.6      -29A       -15.5      -23A        -104        1.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.5
Government Dot (DOD at the mi f tlhe e
Extenal Debt in bifks of LCU           24         213       212        344        565        691        1224       1643       1766        U116      3477
Exe Dnal Debt m millns o US$         1071       11973      12074      12473      10518      10192      9954       10139       979"       9429       6455
Debt To Mduy SyaM  (.U biD              14        53          90        194       277        269         370       467         596        761        927
Odiw Dam_irDebt (1.UbiD                 0           0        40          13       22         334         535       702         365       1001       1112
Total Govenenat debt                   37        266        411        622        1114      1295       2130        2813       3227       3648          0
TotAlGovemnmentdebtuspeate             13        203        203        20S        203         154        150        140        112         U           0
Ta burden Incaton  M%
Directt  I GDP                        20.9       21.1       13.7       104        11.4        9.7        9.0        1.7        *.7        1.7        5.9
ldi trxes Ca domestic GAS / GDP       17.6       14.0       13.3       14.3       17.2       15.0       15.4       16.0       16.3       17A4       1.5
lndirt euan dam GS piv Cm             29.5       28.9       20.5       19.9       26.3       25.1       25.6       26.7       30.2       29.6       28.3
tue iItltrabdl /  _mh                  0.5        0.3        04         0.9        0.6        0.6        0.7        0.7        0.3        0.9        0.9
m:%buIAsdItANXEX1.XL8                                                                                                               715nu FM



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BULGARIA
IBRD LAs mad IDA Credt  i. the Opmro0   Portfolo
a of June 30. 1996
Differemce         Lat ARPP
Original amount                      between actual   Superwiion Ratli,?
Project    Lan or   FlAl                                                       [a 1   miuso$ n                       and expected      Dev.      Imp.
ID      Credit No.  Year         Borrower               Parpmne        IBRD  IDA   Canceilations  Undabhurned   diabursemensb'   Objectives  Progren
No. of Cloned Loan/Credit   2
Active Loans:
BO-PA-9307    L33840    1991  Republicof Butgnri     Teac alAua A wacc    17.00                          10.74            10.74           U          U
BG-PA-S321    L35630    1993 Natinal Elcric Co.    Pzpy/Envirw. mnt    93.00                              76.06           53.91            U          S
BO-PA-4322   135920    1993 Bujgoni Telccc Co.  Telon.uaiatia              30.00                          24.10           20.90            S          S
BG-PA-8312    L36310    1993 Rqublic Of Buiafia    Priv. Inv. A Exp. Fin.  55.00                          39.57           33.32            U          U
BG-PA-8319   L37390    1994 Republic of Bulgaria     Water Compeics Rea. 91.00                            93.37            10.83           S          U
BG-PA-8309    L37710    1994 Rerblic of Bulgt"       Agrla Dcv.            50.00                          50.00           25.34            S          U
BO-PA-8315   L39220    1996 Bulgarian Stto Raihvays Railway Rhabilitation   95.00                         95.00            4.16            S          S
BO-PA-8318   L40000    1996 Republic of Bulgaria     Heakto Sector Rehab.    26.00                        26.00            0.00            S          S
TOTAL                                                                 464.00                          414.S4          159.20
Acdive Loans        Closed Loans         Total
Totsl disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                  49.16               375.00       424.16
of which repaid                               0.00                  5.75         5.75
Total now hedd by IBRD and IDA                 464.00               369.25       833.25
Amount gold                                      0.00                 0.00          0.00
of whicb repaid                               0.00                 0.00         0.00
Total undisbursed                              414.84                 0.00        414.84
*1 Intended disburemt  to date minus actual dibursemnt to date u projned at apptscal.
b/ Following the FY94 Anmal Roview of Portfolio Perfonmance (ARPP). a lotter-based yatm was introduced (HS-higly satisfactory; S-ctisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory;
Hubhighly inastimfactory; -e Pred Inprovmnu  Lx Prcject ad PWflo Pelonnme PaMg Mdhahdoloy(SccM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disburenment data are updated at the end of te ftrst week of the month.



Annex 9
Bulgaria - Statement of IFC Investments                        Page 2 of 2
As or June 30, 1996
(USS millions)
Original Gross Conmitments
Fiscal                                                    IFC    IFC                     Held by  Held by   Undisb. incL
Year               Obligor              ripe of Business  Loan  Equity Participants Totals  IFC  Participants Participants
1995 EuroMerchant Balkan Fund SICAV     Financial Services      5.00              5.00   5.00                  4.00
Total gross commitments b/                          0.00   5.00      0.00     5.00
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments & sales                                  0.00   0.00      0.00     0.00
Total commitments now held c/                       0.00   5.00     0.00     5.00   5.00      0.00        4.00
Pending Commitments
INTERLEASE INC.                                     3.50   0.40              3.90
Total pending commitments                           3.50   0.40     0.00     3.90
Total commitments held and pending commitments      3.50   5.40     0.00     8.90
Total undisbursed commitments                       0.00   4.00      0.00    4.00
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investment.



Annex 10
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING STEPS
(1)    Time taken to prepare      12 days
(2)    Project prepared by        Bank Staff (*)
(3)    Concept Meeting            June 28, 1996
(4)    Loan Committee             July 5, 1996
(5)    Appraisal                  July 5, 1996
(6)    Negotiations               July 8, 1996
(7)    Board Presentation         August 1, 1996
(8)    Closing Date               July 31, 1997
I#    This Loan was prepared by a Bank staff team comprised of Eduardo Somensatto (Leader),
Zeljko Bogetic, Franco Batzella, Neri Mangosing-Koeppen, Fareed Hassan at Headquarters,
and Alberto Musalem (Res. Rep.), Elaine Patterson, Lubomir Mitov, Galina Sotirova at the
Bulgaria Resident Mission. Galina Mikhlin from the Legal Dept. was also a key member of
the team. Ernestina Madrona provided invaluable support under a very tight deadline.
Christiaan Poortman is the Division Chief, Frank Lysy, Lead Economist, George Zaidan,
Project Adviser, and Kenneth Lay is the Department Director.



MAP SECTION






IbRD 26532
22- \ ~~~~~~23'                                      24-                            25'                           i6                           27'                            2Fe,5 
A4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
43*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A3
T. Z,-KOD                      -             S                                                                                                              Aln,oLoo
A2                                            Elogoorod                                      Krconnr ~  bsooo   k  COuh.,hn                                                                         _4 >
FYR ~ ~ ~               G             A      O: C              io pOy         Srolyo         -:  Ge          0           -                                     -sA                   oOrod         
MACEDONIA|   T  o S uS _  TodoNu,o,                                                                                                                                                     BULGARI
HUrEMY~~~~\, G   MnolR   E   E  C   FTKon;;ovO/,;                                                                                                       _                                        NAIOA  CA  _  XhPITL
*2 kRcodo                                                                                                        5-                                                                               01 Khosk hormon ADS-T k-
ROW~~~~~NIA~~                   Dhb            -j                                                                                                                                PORTS Mfvo >     -_   7      URKEY   8  
FD    . E                                                                                                                             - RE.                    .
OF                                                                                                                                   NS- O-F
YUGOSLAVIA
43S*                                                                                                                                                                              O3 SLOETERS
22-O\                    |       23- .2*                                                                                                                                                        OBLAST CAPITALS
GUCREEC                                                                                                                                                                            or ooo.tone Gf Roo E    boTK   oni9 NATONALAPTA
-  2-_4  OBAT ONDRE
-. YUGOSfAVIA6. --C E
!~~~~~     ~~~                 k-6         0                            K                         n    sea0                                                                  2       *        0       a       0
Jf~~~~~~~~~~~- 0                                                      Tn\/j)-TeburSw. Zor.dnmndn n n ^ nooo
AL8NIr    -T  RK  r                                                                                                                                                         ,ow o ^s opdo ofimhyon^  or ofTh Wrf anDGrup
. ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      X             v                                                      n ugoto  eba b,ofoyhruy  royednmw
T.; K-K                                                          42S                                                             ;'o c poc  f,hbzer0
P.i-k. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DCME -d994









IMAGING
Report No, P-   6965 BUL
Type: PR



