Report No. 1153-SP
Spain: Appraisal of an Industrial Research,
Development and Engineering Project
April 22, 1977
Industrial Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency: Pesetas (Ptas.)
Years
1960-66        US$1.00           =       Ptas. 60
1967           US$1.00           =       Ptas. 60.83
1968-71        US$1.00           =       Ptas. 70
1972           US$1.00           =       Ptas. 64.4737
1973           US$1.00           =       Ptas. 58.0263
1974           US$1.00           =       Ptas. 57.50
1975           US$1.00           =       Ptas. 57.40
Since February 9, 1976
US$1.00           =      Ptap. 66
Pta. 1            =      US cents 1.515
Ptas. 1,000,000  =       $15,150
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
ASINEL       Asociacion de Investigacion Industrial Electrica
CAICYT       Comision Asesora de Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnica
CENIM        Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Metalurgicas
CETME        Centro de Estudios Tecnicos de Materiales Especiales
ICGE         Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores
INE          Instituto Nacional de Estadistica
INI          Instituto Nacional de Industria
INIA         Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agronomas
INTA         Instituto Nacional de Tecnica Aeroespacial
JEN          Junta de Energia Nuclear
P., Ptas.    Pesetas
R&D          Research and Development
RD&E         Research, Development and Engineering
SEAT         Sociedad Espanola de Automoviles de Turismo, S.A.
SEFINNOVA    Sociedad Espanola de Financiacion de la Innovacion
SERCOBE      Servicio Tecnico Comercial de Constructores de
Bienes de Equipo.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF AN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........ . . . . . .   ................................. .  i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..............                .... .  . .........................    1
II.    THE ECONOMIC SETTING  .....................................                        2
A.    The Economic Transformation of Spain
Through the Early 1970's  ..........................                     2
B.    Recent Economic Developments  ........................                      3
C.    Industrial Performance  .......  ..................... ........             4
III.    CHARACTERISTICS OF INDUSTRIAL RD&E IN SPAIN AND
THE NEED FOR MODIFICATION  ............           .. ..................           5
A.    Industrial RD&E ......           .................. .                       5
B.    Spain's RD&E Gap  ....................................                      6
IV. THE INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT                                ..                         7
A.    The RD&E Unit  ..............................*........                       7
B.    Selection of Areas for Initial Concentration
of the RD&E Work  .......           .............................    10
C.    Criteria for the Selection of Subprojects  ...... .....    11
D.    Defining  the Minimum Critical Effort  ..............                ..    11
E.    Project Cost, Financing,  Procurement and
Disbursement  ......................................    13
1.    Cost Estimate  .........           ....................    13
2.    Financing Requirements  .......... ..........    14
3.    Sources of Financing  ...................             ...    16
4.    Procurement          ................................    16
5.    Disbursement  ...          ...........................    16
6.    Audits       ....................................             17
F.    Project Justification,  Economic Benefits and Risks...    17
V.    AGREEMENTS  ...............................................    18
This report was prepared by: F. Moore, D. Carpio, C. Weiss, Jr., and
W. Wipplinger.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



ANNEXES
Table of Contents
ANNEX 2.1    ECONOMIC SETTING
A.  Growth and Transformation of Spain's Economy
B. Industrial Performance and Development Pattern
in Manufacturing
C. Manufactured Exports and Industrial Competitiveness
D. Changes in Competitive Conditions of Industry
E. Transfer of Technology and Spanish R&D Efforts
STATISTICAL ANNEX
ANNEX 3.1    GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF R&D IN SPAIN
A. The Climate in Spain for Industrial Research
and Development
B. Public Sector Industries
C. National Fund for the Development of Scientific
Research
D. Research Associations
E. Universities and Institutes of Higher Education
F. Government Industrial Research Institutes
G. The Research Centers of the Patronato
"Juan de la Cierva"
H. Center for Nuclear Energy (JEN)
I. The National Institute of Aerospace Technology (INTA)
ANNEX 3.2    DIRECT GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN TECHNOLOGICAL
DEVELOPMENT
A. Introduction
B. Evaluative Observations on Governmental Mechanisms
C. Some Implications for Development Agencies
ANNEX 3.3    LEGISLATION ON THE PURCHASE OF FOREIGN TECHNOLOGY
ANNEX 3.4    INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROGRAM SIZE AND COST ESTIMATE
A. Introduction
B. Determining a Minimum Critical Effort - A Micro Approach
C. Determining a Minimum Critical Effort - A Macro Approach
STATISTICAL ANNEX



- 2 -
ANNEX 4.1   THE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING UNIT
A. Structure and Functions
B. Administration
C. Evolution of a Project of the RD&E Unit
D. Institutional Relationships
ANNEX 4.2    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS:  POWERS, INDEPENDENCE,
AND LIMITATIONS IN SPANISH ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
A. Introduction
B. General Comparison of Types of Organizations
C. Autonomous Organizations
D. Public Services
E. National Enterprises
ANNEX 4.3    INDUSTRIES OF PREFERENTIAL INTEREST
A. Introduction
B. Electronics
C. Food Industries
ANNEX 4.4    AREAS OF INITIAL PROJECT EFFORT
A. Electronics Industry
B. Mechanical Engineering Industry
C. Food Industries
ANNEX 4.5    INCENTIVES TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROVIDED
TO FIRMS PARTICIPATING IN "JOINT ACTION PROGRAMS"
(ACCIONES CONCERTADAS)



SPAIN
APPRAISAL OF AN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       This report appraises a project to support research, development,
and engineering (RD&E) of new products and processes in industry. The
total cost of the project is about US$40 million, to which the proposed Bank
loan would contribute an equivalent of US$18 million. Although the project
and its cost are related to a specific time frame of five years, it is in
effect only a part of what is intended to be an ongoing process of acquiring
the technical knowledge necessary to improve economic well-being and ability
to compete.
ii.      Spain reached its current level of development primarily due to
very rapid growth since the early 1960s, rather than through slow accretions
over a long period. During 1961-74 GNP in real terms expanded on average by
7.3% per year, one of the highest rates achieved among developing countries,
although the growth rate has declined sharply since the onset of the world
recession, to 5% in 1974 and 1% on average in 1975-76.
iii.     Much of the past growth, particularly in industry, was based on
imported technology, through foreign investment and licensing. Rapid growth
probably could not have occurred in any other way, but the result is an in-
sufficiency of domestic activities to strengthen indigenous RD&E of new
products and processes. The extent of the dependence is indicated by the
technological balance of payments. In 1974 payments by Spanish industry for
licenses, royalties, and technical assistance amounted to US$316 million,
whereas the income received from transfer of Spanish technology was only US$36
million. In 1975 payments for imported technology had risen to about US$500
million.
iv.      Compared to other countries at a similar stage of development,
Spain does very little RD&E of new products. Its expenditures have amounted
to about 0.3% of GNP, which is comparable to that of countries with far lower
levels of per capita income (such as Korea, Portugal, and Turkey) and is far
below the levels in its chief competitors, the countries in the EEC. There is
a gap or shortfall in what normally would be expected of a country at Spain's
level of per capita income and the amount that may be expected based on
historical experience. In quantitative terms, the gap is in the order of
US$60 million annually. The qualitative deficiencies in the programs are of
even greater significance. The proposed project is to help correct these de-
ficiencies and to provide some new institutional bases and program directions.



- ii -
v.       The industrial RD&E project is the first of its kind to be under-
taken by the Bank. It is intended to provide a model that can be replicated
(with appropriate changes) in other countries.
vi.      The project involves (a) establishment of a new organization to
direct and control the RD&E activities; and (b) formulation of a program of a
size that will supply a minimum critical effort that can, after a time, be
self-sustaining.
vii.     The new organization (called here the RD&E Unit) will initially
be created by decree, in the Ministry of Industry as a "centralized public
service without legal personality". This form of organization has only
slight differences from any office of the Ministry and thus has limitations
on its ability to earn or receive income outside the ordinary budget; there-
fore, within two years the RD&E Unit will be reconstituted by law as an
autonomous organization, which has the necessary flexibility and powers to
carry out the project effectively.
viii.    The RD&E Unit will consist of a managing director, a permanent
staff of about ten professionals, a Board of Directors, and various ad hoc
task forces, recruited for specific periods of time, to carry out the
project tasks. Stated briefly, the Unit, under the leadership of the
managing director, will survey the available technology and resources in
Spain, will select product areas for investigation that seem the most
promising, will organize task forces to undertake specific product
investigation, and in general, will commission and supervise the neces-
sary RD&E studies and pilot plant operations leading to commercially
viable new products. These tasks will be done in close collaboration
with industry, and most of the actual contract work will probably be
done by industrial firms.
ix.      After a review of the performance of specific industries, and
by agreement with the Government, it is proposed to give preference in
the RD&E work initially to three industries: electronics, mechanical
engineering, and food industries. This selection in no way precludes
acceptance of subprojects in other industries; the selection simply
gives a focus to the initial efforts.
x.       To be successful the industrial RD&E project must be of a
minimum critical size. This concept has three aspects: first, the project
should be able to generate enough commercially successful products to support
the program at the same level of activity in the future; second, the number of
commercial successes must be sufficient to have a demonstration effect and
encourage industry to undertake more RD&E investments; third, the program
should fill a measurable portion of the gap in RD&E expenditures.



- iii -
xi.       At the macro level, the project should fill about 10% of the
estimated US$70 million gap in RD&E expenditures between a target level and
an extrapolation of past trends. With the average cost of a representative
subproject estimated to be US$745,000 over a three-year period, a minimum
critical size of program of nine subprojects annually has been established,
and is based on the following considerations. On average it will take three
years to complete the RD&E phase of the work and another two years to bring
a new product to full commercial exploitation. It is estimated, based on
experience in Spain and elsewhere, that the proposed program of nine sub-
projects annually could have a success ratio of one-third; then the prob-
ability is less than 3% that all of the nine subprojects financed each year
would be failures. A program with nine subprojects per year would spend
about US$7 million annually, including administrative costs, and would thus
represent about 10% of the projected gap in RD&E expenditures, most of
which is a deficiency in industry. These figures provide a "model" of how
the process might work and are not intended to impose conditions on the actual
project decisions with regard to size and length of the RD&E work required.
xii.      Given the estimated success ratio and the period of five years
that is necessary for commercial maturation, one can calculate that the
annual program of about US$7 million could be self-sustaining after eight
years if the successful subprojects paid royalties of about US$580,000
annually for a period of four years (which is a conservative assumption).
xiii.     Of the total cost of the project of about US$40 million, the Bank
loan will finance US$18 million of largely imported specialized test equipment
and machinery plus foreign services. The proposed Bank loan would be made to
the Government of Spain and transferred in the form of grants to the institu-
tion administering the project.
xiv.      Based on the agreements with the Borrower, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$18 million for 13 years including three years of grace.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This is a project to support research, development, and engineering
of new products and processes in industry. This is the first time in Spain
that a deliberate program, involving systematic outside assistance, has been
devoted to the purpose of strengthening the capabilities of Spanish industry
to compete successfully in the world market. The proposed Bank loan for the
project is US$18 million. The total costs amount to about US$40 million over a
five-year period. But, unlike the usual project in industry, whose limits are
largely marked by the bounds of its assets, research, development, and engineer-
ing (RD&E) activities cannot be delineated so precisely, nor can their benefits.
Consequently, this project is viewed as providing foundations -- and a demon-
stration -- for programs that should continue vigorously for many years;
therefore also the costs -- and the benefits -- of the phases of work covered
in this project are but a fraction of the ultimate totals.
1.02      The economic transformation that has occurred in Spain in the last
decade is generally known. In industry in particular growth has been very
rapid, and the range of industries has broadened, so that the fabric of indus-
trial activities has become quite dense, with few major gaps. But much of
this growth has been imported, in the form of foreign investment and licensing
that carries its own technology and is subject to its own constraints. This
importation of the technical basis of industrial growth supported an impressive
record of achievement, but it also occurred at the cost of an almost complete
lack of domestic capability in product and process development. Spain has now
reached a level of development in industry where this lack may seriously
impair its ability to continue to grow and to compete in world markets,
particularly the EEC. The correction of this condition is the chief economic
rationale for this project. Without the assistance provided by this project,
the correction would be delayed and possibly be too little and too late to be
effective in avoiding interruption in growth.
1.03      There is no "habit" of undertaking research and development in
Spain; it is often regarded as an activity undertaken by academicians. But
this attitude is changing and is perhaps best summed up in the following
quotation: "The world of ideas, in the sciences and in letters, in the arts
and in technology, has today as always, a great obligation to society. This
developing society, which is looking for new solutions, now more than ever
needs guidance." 1/ Thus the economic rationale for the project is backed by
the political realization of the necessity to take appropriate steps.
1.04     This project was first appraised in December, 1975 and followed up by
an additional mission in 1976, and subsequent further discussions with the
Borrower. The mission consisted of F. Moore (Chief), D. Carpio, C. Weiss,
Jr., W. Wipplinger, and T. Bamford (Consultant). The mission was preceded by
earlier missions, dating back to 1973, that prepared the foundations.
1/   First speech by King Juan Carlos I (December 6, 1975).



II. THE ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   The Economic Transformation of Spain Through the Early 1970's
2.01      Spain's economy has advanced very far from the conditions that
existed prior to the 1960s, when extensive economic controls and foreign
exchange constraints put severe limitations to a fuller and more rational
use of the country's productive potential. In the relatively short time of
15 years Spain has become an industrialized economy, closely interdependent
with the rest of the world, and, in particular, the European Common Market.
And in terms of her GNP per capita -- estimated at US$2,700 in 1975 -- Spain
has reached the lower stratum of the high income countries. Annex 2.1
describes in more detail the country's economic setting, particularly its
industrial performance, and the changes that have affected competitive
conditions of Spain's industry.
2.02      Facilitated by economic liberalization and growth-oriented eco-
nomic policies, and supported by rapidly rising foreign exchange inflows from
tourism, workers' remittances and foreign private investors, Spain's economic
growth record has been outstanding. During 1961-74, GNP expanded in real
terms on average by 7.3% per year, one of the highest rates achieved among
developing countries, and the second highest, after Japan, among OECD coun-
tries. Industry, the leading sector, grew at an average rate of 9.6%.
After import substitution lost its main stimulating power, industrial growth
was further sustained by exports of manufactures. Manufactured exports in
1970 surpassed the volume of Spain's traditional exports of agricultural and
mining products.   In this context it is important to note that most of the
industrial exports found their way into highly industrialized countries,
notably in the,EEC. In part this was facilitated by comparative advantages
in labor costs and a considerable supply flexibility. But a rapidly growing
external demand for industrial goods and the lowering of trade barriers
vis-a-vis the EEC also contributed. In 1970 the EEC concluded a Preferential
Trade Agreement with Spain.
2.03      As a result of the dynamic industrial development in Spain, the
share of industry in GNP at constant 1970 factor cost rose to 41% in 1974,
from about 30% in 1960. Industry also became a more important employer than
agriculture, formerly the main source of employment in Spain. The service
sectors, leading in both combined value added and employment, appear to
have maintained their relative weight in the economy, accounting for about
48% of GNP. But agriculture declined significantly, as its share in GNP
dropped to about 10% in 1974, a ratio typically found among many developed
countries.
2.04      The sharp decline of Spain's rural labor force, from almost 5
million in 1960 to 3 million in 1974, involved unprecedented migratory move-
ments to urban centers and abroad and profound changes in the country's social
structure. Urbanization accelerated dramatically, creating new needs for
physical and social infrastructure and expanded social services. Change was



-3-
further intensified by the growing number of foreign tourists visiting Spain
which culminated in over 34 million in 1973 -- about the size of Spain's
population.
2.05      Spain's industrialization and changes in demand stemming from rising
standards of living have, since the early 1960s, resulted in persistently high
deficits in the country's balance of trade. These deficits averaged some
US$1.8 billion a year during 1965-70 and US$2.5 billion during 1971-73. How-
ever, owing to rising earnings from tourism and workers' remittances, Spain
was in a position to keep balance of payment deficits on current account
during the 1960s at tolerable levels and to even generate surpluses during
1970-73. The favorable development of Spain's balance of payments on current
account, combined with substantial net inflows of medium and long-term capital,
mostly from private sources, has until 1973 also led to a strong accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves. At the end of 1973, total net reserves stood
at US$6.8 billion, equivalent to seven months' imports of goods and non-
factor services.
B.   Recent Economic Developments
2.06      Sharply increased petroleum prices and the recession in other OECD
countries have, since 1974, caused a reversal in Spanish economic conditions.
First to be affected was the balance of payments. Because of much higher
payments for imports, stagnating earnings from tourism, and a decline in
workers' remittances, Spain's balance of payments on current account reversed
from a surplus of US$558 million in 1973 to deficits of around US$3.1 billion
in 1974, US$3.5 billion in 1975 and approximately US$4.0 billion in 1976.
Only through a substantial increase in foreign borrowings, particularly from
suppliers and capital markets, could a critical loss of foreign exchange
reserves be avoided. Net reserves stood at US$5.5 billion by the end of
October, 1976, equivalent to less than four months' imports of goods and
non-factor services.
2.07      Primarily to promote exports and tourism but also to discourage
less essential imports, the Spanish Government decided earlier in 1976 to
devalue the peseta against the US dollar. Effective February 9, 1976, a
parity of Ptas 66 per dollar was established replacing the previous parity of
Ptas 58.3 per dollar which had been valid since February 1973. The exchange
rate has been floating since February 9, 1976.
2.08      Spain entered the recession later than the other OECD countries.
In 1974, the real growth rate of GNP was still 4.9%, down from over 8% in
both 1972 and 1973. In 1975, however, GNP growth came to a virtual stand-
still as real value added in manufacturing and construction declined.
Developments in 1976 suggest a continuing stagnation of growth, resulting
from the sharp drop in fixed investment in 1975 and the currently further
depressed investment climate.



-4-
C.   Industrial Performance
2.09      The most important contributors to growth in manufacturing since
1960 have been non-traditional activities. National accounts data suggest
that basic metals, metal products and machinery, transport equipment, and
chemical products contributed together about 45% to the absolute growth in
manufacturing value added during 1961-70, with their direct contribution
to manufacturing growth increasing to 57% during 1971-75. The leading
growth sectors were transport equipment (during 1961-70) and the metal
transforming and engineering goods industries (during 1971-75). As a
result of the strong growth performance of the non-traditional activities,
their share in total manufacturing value added, expressed in constant 1970
factor cost, reached 52% in 1975. On the other hand, light industries
lagged behind total manufacturing growth. The food industry, for example,
in the 1960s the largest individual subsector in manufacturing, currently
contributes less to manufacturing value added than the metal transforming
and engineering goods industries or the transport equipment industry. Par-
ticularly lagging throughout the period under consideration have been tex-
tiles, wood, cork and furniture, while apparel and footwear, after having
grown about in line with total manufacturing value added during the 1960s,
have been slackening in recent years.
2.10      The emerging new industries were mostly large-scale and capital-
intensive utilizing up-to-date equipment and the most recent foreign tech-
nologies available. In many cases, direct foreign participations provided
immediate access to new technological developments and the know-how needed
in processing and marketing. Despite the rapid development of new large-size
industries, Spain's industrial structure remains, however, dominated by the
small-scale, family-based enterprise, which in the past has been able to
remain competitive because of relatively low labor costs and its capability
to produce in small individual series and with a high product flexibility.
2.11      In the 1960s, industrial growth was induced mainly by rapidly
expanding domestic demand. Exports of industrial goods virtually did not
start rising until 1964, but have since increased dramatically, particularly
since 1968 when slackening domestic demand and the incentives given by the
peseta devaluation of November 1967 caused many Spanish manufacturers to
look abroad for markets. In 1974, about 14% of manufacturing output was
exported as compared to 5% in 1961.
2.12      Industrial exports, which amounted to US$150 million in 1961, ex-
ceeded US$4.4 billion in 1975. Their share in total commodity exports in-
creased during the same period from 21% to 66%. As Spanish industry was
becoming more diversified, a large array of new export products emerged,
some of which were assuming major positions in world markets. Outstanding
examples of Spain's export surge have been ships, tires, shoes, and many
new products of the engineering and transport equipment industry. The EEC
became an increasingly important outlet, absorbing in 1974 about 42% of
total Spanish industrial exports.



- 5 -
2.13      Many of the comparative advantages on which Spain's industrial
successes were based are gradually diminishing, however. For example,
Spanish labor costs, including social security costs, have increased very
rapidly in recent years and will probably continue to rise faster than in
other Western European countries. With labor costs now getting closer to
those in other West European countries, Spanish industry can no longer
depend for its competitiveness on cheap labor. This has implications also
on the capability of Spanish firms to accommodate small orders with varying
specifications.
2.14      The gradual disappearance of previously important comparative
advantages occurs during a period of increasing integration with the EEC
and changed economic conditions in OECD countries. These developments have
put additional competitive pressures on Spanish enterprises and given further
evidence of the serious weaknesses in Spain's industrial structure and in
industrial management. Concentrated efforts from industry and the Govern-
ment will be required to prevent a further erosion of current competitive
positions. In view of the prospects of a much closer economic integration
with the EEC, vigorous and selective efforts must begin now to develop tech-
nologically improved processes and products in areas in which Spain can expect
to be competitive.
III.  CHARACTERISTICS OF INDUSTRIAL RD&E IN SPAIN AND THE NEED FOR MODIFICATION
3.01      Although expenditures on RD&E have been rising fairly rapidly in
the last few years, the total allocations are still small, are spread too
thinly over too many fields, and are supporting too many institutions which
are often very small in size and lacking in significant impact on technological
improvements. In 1974 the expenditures on total research and development
activities amounted to about US$280 million, which was equivalent to 0.3% of
GNP; this is in the range typical of countries with a much lower level of per
capita income and is comparable to the ratios in Korea, Portugal, and Turkey.
It is substantially below countries in the EEC that have increasingly become
its main competitors, where the range in 1970/71 was 0.9 to 2.3% of GNP and
2.6% in the U.S. (Annexes 2.1 and 3.1).
A.   Industrial RD&E
3.02      Industrial growth has been based primarily on the adoption of
foreign technology through the acquisition of licenses, patents, and for-
eign assistance services. In 1974, payments by Spanish industry for licenses,
royalties, and technical assistance amounted to about US$316 million; by com-
parison in the same year the income from transfer of Spanish technology was
US$36 million. The deficit in the technology balance of trade (US$280 mil-
lion) was one of the highest among OECD countries and compared unfavorably to
developing countries such as Korea, which has developed industry very rapidly.
Compared to other countries at about its stage of industrial development,
Spain does very little research, development, and engineering of new products.



-6-
The dependence on importation of foreign technology has been high, and often
at the cost of conditions imposed by the foreign seller that have limited the
ability of Spanish enterprises to export and to compete in foreign markets.
With the expected closer ties to the EEC these competitive limitations impose
burdens that may seriously hamper growth of Spanish exports to the most im-
portant markets.
3.03      There is not now any institution in Spain with responsibility for
the systematic support and exploration of industrial research and develop-
ment opportunities and the engineering of new products. There are, indeed,
scattered programs of support, but all this support lacks breadth of cover-
age in problems and sector representation, and procedures are generally slow
and cumbersome. This applies in particular to the Government support pro-
vided through the Comision Asesora de Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnica
(CAICYT) to manufacturers and private research associations. Of industrial
RD&E spending estimated at about US$126 million in 1974, only little more than
half is accounted for by private enterprises. The remainder is spread over
more than two dozen public research institutions, various public enterprises
of the Instituto Nacional de Industria (INI), institutes of higher education,
and 17 private research associations, all of which are operating with limited
scope and, possibly with the exception of INI enterprises, under important
operational constraints (Annex 3.1). There are currently also no tax or other
incentives that are designed to promote research activities.
3.04      The course of technology development by importation was probably
the most logical and natural for Spain to adopt during rapid industrial
growth, but as experience in many other countries has demonstrated it will
not suffice for the future. This is understood in the Government and in
industry, but inertia in Spanish RD&E is difficult to overcome without special
effort, and there are some policies that may be inimical to such an effort;
for example, in the interests of encouraging more efficient, larger scale
producing units in industry, there are some limitations on the entry of firms
below a certain size in certain product lines.  Yet successful RD&E is not
closely associated with only larger firms. Lack of venture capital, the con-
servatism of the banking system, and the fragmentation of existing programs
are also inhibiting factors. Thus an RD&E program must provide resources and
the institutional means that as yet do not exist in Spain for breaking through
the inertia, and this must be accompanied by a review of those policies and
procedures that constrain such an effort now. If progressive firms and agen-
cies in selected industries can be formed as an initial nucleus, the effort
can be launched with reasonable probability of success (Annexes 3.2 and 3.3).
B.   Spain's RD&E Gap
3.05      To estimate the RD&E gap that can be expected in Spain during the
next five years, target expenditure levels have been established taking
into account the country's projected level of income, development and RD&E
resource availability. The concept of a target level is normative and
the values calculated in Annex 3.4 must be interpreted as guides to



- 7 -
the likely range of values and as order of magnitude indicators. The term
target expenditure is used for simplicity and the amounts indicated do not
imply precision but rather rough estimates that can be used for general
national planning purposes.
3.06      Estimates derived from target and extrapolated (historical)
values suggest the gap in RD&E expenditures to be in the order of
US$70 million annually during the period of project implementation.
The details of these calculations are shown in Annex 3.4.
3.07      The historical base for the extrapolated values is only six years
(1969-74) and corresponds to a period of exceptionally rapid economic growth.
Consequently, the extrapolated values for RD&E expenditures may tend to be
high.  However, existing programs are largely of the basic research type
which does not fill the technological challenge facing Spain.  Thus, while the
expenditure gap is not quantitatively large, there is a far more substantial
qualitative gap which the proposed program will attempt to help bridge.
3.08      The program that the project is intended to assist should fill a
meaningful portion, say 10%, of the expected expenditure gap. This would mean
a budget of about US$7 million equivalent annually in constant 1976 US dollars.
The proposed program size (as described further below) would cost on average
about US$7 million each year, representing 10% of the expected gap and on
these grounds would thus be considered a minimum sized program. Other justi=
fications for this size of program are presented later.
IV. THE INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
4.01      The project to support research, development and engineering in
industry is new and the first of its kind that has been undertaken by the
Bank.
4.02      The project is composed of three principal elements that together
make up an "operational system" to support new product development. These
elements are: (1) establishment of a new organization (hereinafter called the
RD&E Unit) to direct and control the project activities; (2) selection of
areas for initial concentration of the RD&E work and criteria for the selec-
tion of subprojects; and (3) build-up of a program of subprojects which will
represent a minimum critical effort that can, after a time, become self-
sustaining.
A.   The RD&E Unit
4.03      The new Unit will be established initially within the Ministry of
Industry. In general, the Unit would operate as follows. As a first step
it would survey available technology and resources of Spanish industry with
the purpose of evaluating its capacity to develop particular products and



- p
processes, based largely on Spanish technology, that would be commercially
competitive in future markets. It would then select industrial fields or
opportunities of maximum commercial promise for further research and develop-
ment work during the subsequent 3-5 years. Such opportunities are likely to
be found in supporting product lines for industries in which Spain is already
strong, as described further below (para. 4.13 and in Annex 4.1).
4.04      For each field thus selected, the RD&E Unit would carry out, with
maximum cooperation of industry, detailed studies of potential markets, and
would identify product lines and a marketing strategy to compete in them,
using external expertise, if necessary. The Unit would review available
foreign technologies for design and production, and select those most appro-
priate to be obtained under license as part of a strategy intended to lead to
increased reliance on Spanish technology. It would commission and supervise,
but not itself perform, the necessary research, development, design and en-
gineering activities needed to master these technologies, to adapt them to
Spanish conditions, and to improve them. These activities would be carried
out for the most part in Spanish institutions (including laboratories) of
the public or private sector, although specialized studies may be contracted
abroad. In practice, most of the RD&E work would probably be carried out
in industrial firms.
4.05      The RD&E Unit will carry the work only to the point of commercial
exploitation of the results of its efforts but will not engage in commercial
activities in any form nor provide funds for that purpose. These will be
left to public and private enterprises. However, the Unit will, as one of
its guiding principles, at all stages of its work enlist the support of
industry and will promote commercial production through advice and technical
assistance, including supply of drawings, specifications, information on
production processes, markets, and such other information and assistance
as is required.
4.06      The creation of new products and processes will result in items that
are patentable and hence give rise to property rights. When the products or
processes are produced wholly or dominantly through the funds and contracts of
the RD&E Unit, the patent right will belong to the Unit. Licenses to use
patents will be made freely available to all domestic firms upon payment of a
reasonable royalty, as determined by the Unit's Managing Director and approved
by the Board of Directors. Non-patented information resulting from the
program will be made freely available to all domestic firms. A domestic firm
means all those licensed to operate and produce in Spain.
4.07      Ideally, the RD&E Unit should be an autonomous organization from the
beginning to give it maximum independence in its actions and also to enable it
to receive income from sources other than the Government budget, for example,
through the sale or licensing of technology (Annex 4.2). However, it is not
possible to obtain the necessary law from the Spanish legislative authorities
in time for the RD&E Unit to begin operations during calendar year 1977 as is



intended. For this reason and since in any case the Unit will not be receiving
outside income for the first few years of its existence, it will be organized
initially as a servicio publico centralizado sin personalidad juridica.
However, legislation will be proposed to reconstitute the Unit as an autono-
mous organization as soon as possible. Agreement has been reached on all
points necessary for the creation and subsequent transformation of the RD&E
Unit as well as its principal policies and functions as described further
below. Specifically, these points include:
(a) Prior to the effective date of the loan, a decree will be
issued creating a servicio publico centralizado sin
personalidad juridica with powers to receive and administer
the project funds, and a competent Managing Director of the
RD&E Unit acceptable to the Bank will have been appointed;
(b) The Unit's policies, its operating procedures, organizational
structure and delineation of responsibilities between the Unit's
management and its Board of Directors have been agreed upon with
the Government;
(c) As soon as possible, and in any case not later than December 31,
1979, a law will be drafted and submitted to the legislative
body to transform the Unit into an autonomous organization to
further direct and control the project and with otherwise
equal functions and responsibilities as established under
(b) above.
4.08      The RD&E Unit will consist of a Managing Director, a permanent staff
of about 10 professionals, ad hoc task forces, and a Board of Directors as
described below. Paragraphs 4.09-4.12 set forth the intentions of the
Government.
4.09      The Managing Director will have extensive experience in private
industry and will be recruited for a fixed term and will be paid sufficient
salary to attract a man of outstanding qualifications comparable to those
of the managing director of a large private industrial enterprise. He will
report initially to the Director-General for Industrial Promotion and Tech-
nology of the Ministry of Industry but upon transformation of the Unit to
an autonomous organization he will be responsible only to its Board of Direc-
tors. He shall only be removed for substantive failure to carry out the RD&E
program. This provision is specifically intended to ensure the continuity
of the management through possible changes in the Ministry of Industry and
the Directorate-General of Industrial Promotion and Technology which will be
represented on the Unit's Board. Within the framework of existing Spanish
law, the Managing Director will be in charge of all operational activities,
and will have authority to hire and dismiss members of the staff, to launch
and terminate studies, to allocate the budget to the particular RD&E projects
to authorize contracts for outside research activities, and to approve
arrangements for participation of industry. The major conditions of employ-
ment and the responsibilities of the Managing Director, as outlined here, have
been agreed upon with the Government.



- 10 -
4.10      The staff will consist of:  (a) experts who will normally be on
permanent assignments with the RD&E Unit and who will be familiar with tech-
nologically oriented market forecasting; the assessment and management of new
product and process potentials and their development; the promotion of new
technologies to industry; and (b) ad hoc task forces which will not form
part of the Unit but be independent bodies on contract in order to main-
tain a flexible staffing pattern. The task forces will be formed by tem-
porary recruitment of specialists from industry, universities, research
agencies, consulting firms and other appropriate sources within Spain and
outside, for terms ranging from a few months to a number of years depend-
ing on the particular research or engineering project to be undertaken.
Each task force will act as an arm of the RD&E Unit for carrying out func-
tions of supervision, control and technical assistance in the execution of
a particular project. In many cases, a private or public enterprise will
act as a prime contractor and may subcontract particular activities to other
entitites, under the supervision of the task force.
4.11      The task force will maintain close contact with industry, both
producers and prospective purchasers of the Unit's efforts, from the begin-
ning. Should industry not participate from the outset, the task forces will
at appropriate later stages (e.g. as soon as a prototype product is ready)
seek to find such industrial partners who are willing to share future develop-
ment costs. The patterns for the initiation and conduct of RD&E work are not
limited to those described above. Private or public firms or institutions may
initiate action by proposing specific projects to the RD&E Unit. The latter
may then create a task force as above and contract the execution of the work
to the initiating entity.
4.12      The Board of Directors will be composed of not more than ten pro-
minent leaders, of Spanish industry, directors of leading laboratories and
consulting firms, and representatives of the Ministry of Industry; at least
half will be from industry.  The Director General for Industrial Promotion and
Technology in the Ministry will be its Chairman. The membership of the Board
would change every few years, by a system of staggered terms. This system
would ensure a continuous flow of ideas between the RD&E Unit and other
Spanish institutions concerned with industrial technology.
B.   Selection of Areas for Initial Concentration of the RD&E Work
4.13      From the review of Spanish industrial performance and conditions
under which it works, it has been concluded and agreed with the Government
that the electronics industry, the mechanical engineering industries, and
the food industries are among the most promising industrial subsectors in
which to promote further technological development. Two of them have al-
ready been declared by the Government to be of "preferential interest" in
its program to stimulate industrial development (Annex 4.3). While it is
intended to give these industries preference in the initial selection by
the RD&E Unit of subprojects for investigation, it is important to emphasize
that this choice is intended to provide merely a focus for the work in the
Unit's initial stages and is not to preempt the whole of the program. Sub-
projects of particular merit will no doubt be identified in other industries,
and will be accommodated in the total program on a priority basis. The main



- 11 -
criterion for choice is that there should be an area for technological de-
velopment of new products and processes that is reasonably close to solution
and that builds on Spain's comparative advantages in existing industries.
The three industries chosen have the appropriate characteristics (Annex 4.4).
C.   Criteria for the Selection of Subprojects
4.14.     The criteria for the selection of subprojects has been agreed upon
with the Government. The subprojects will be of a kind that can be absorbed
and improved on within existing Spanish industry. They would have to be
innovative, and subprojects that aim primarily at aesthetic improvements would
not qualify. They should also help to maintain or improve the international
competitive position of Spanish industry. In considering a subproject, infor-
mation will be prepared on the technical improvement in the product or process
that is being sought; the physical, engineering, or other limitations that
have to be overcome; the approach to and organization of the work; the qualifi-
cations of the personnel to work on the subproject; the market value or other
benefits of a successful effort; the costs of undertaking the subproject and
the estimated costs of adopting or using the innovation. Based on this
information, an evaluation of the proposed subproject will be made and several
types of criteria and tests will be applied to assess the risks and technical
feasibility of the proposed work. The aim is to try to find subprojects where
the probability of success is high and the commercial payoff is also high.
The costs of the subproject and the investment and operating costs of using
the innovation will be assessed and compared to the commercial payoffs in the
market. The subproject will also be assessed in terms of the capabilities of
the personnel and the institutions that will undertake the work, and finally,
the specific benefits to Spanish industry in strengthening its competitive
position, particularly vis-a-vis European markets, will be evaluated. The
evaluation procedure will give weight to each of these points in arriving at
a final judgement to either accept or reject the proposed subproject.
4.15      The following RD&E subprojects provide an illustration of the
type of work that is anticipated under the proposed project. Examples in
electronics are the development of certain types of numerical control systems
for machine tools, a measuring and discharging device for electrostatic loads
in empty petroleum and product tankers, and thyristors and related semi-
conductor products; in mechanical engineering prototypes of continuous and
high temperature dyeing machines for textiles, high speed railway bogies, and
an improved hydrodynamic wrench for use in coal mines; and in food industries
a new canning process using no liquid media, and processes aimed at utilizing
the husks of grapes for the production of proteins.
4.16      As part of the Bank's effort to help the Unit find its focus, the
definition of the work program during the initial three years will be made in
consultation with the Bank whenever specific tasks are estimated to require in
excess of US$500,000.
D.   Defining the Minimum Critical Effort
4.17      To be successful the Unit's industrial RD&E program must be of a
minimum critical size. This concept has three aspects: First, the program
should be able to generate enough commercially successful subprojects so that



- 12
the royalty payments or cash returns are adequate to support the program, at
least at the same level of activity, after a reasonable period of time.
Second, the number of commercially successful subprojects must be sufficient to
have a demonstration effect, thereby encouraging Spanish industry to undertake
more RD&E investments. Finally, the program should fill a measurable portion
of the gap between the target or desired level of national RD&E effort and the
level that would otherwise be attained if only historical trends and existing
programs are relied upon (para. 3.06).
4.18      The realization of these objectives depends on several factors:
(a) the proportion of the RD&E gap that should be filled by the Unit's program;
(b) the cost of a representative subproject (i.e., its capital and operating
costs); (c) the success rate that is achieved (i.e. the proportion of sub-
projects that become commercial successes and therefore bring revenues to the
Unit through royalty or other payments); and (d) the average length of time
it takes to complete subprojects and obtain revenues on them. Once these
main parameters are established, the total size of the program and its chief
characteristics are defined (Annex 3.4).
4.19      As mentioned previously (para. 3.08), it is judged that the program
should aim at filling about 10% of the expected gap of US$70 million per year
in R&D expenditures in Spain over the next few years since much less than
this would diminish the program's demonstration effect unduly. The average
cost of a representative subproject within such a program is estimated at
US$745,000 (in constant 1976 terms) over a three-year period, which is the
period estimated to complete the RD&E phase of the work. It is further
estimated that an additional two years are needed to commercialize the results.
This has been derived from the experience of Government-supported industrial
research projects (CAICYT) submitted during 1974-76, the experience of INI en-
terprises, and the Bank's own evaluation of the composition of expenditures
in other similar research projects. It is realized that there may be fairly
wide dispersion of actual subproject costs around this average. For example,
the recent range in CAICYT projects was from US$50,000 to US$4,000,000.
Therefore, the average figures used above are merely illustrative.
4.20      The proposed project is emphasizing work at the development and
engineering end of the spectrum rather than the research end; that tends
to increase the cost of a typical subproject, since it involves more pilot
plant type operations and thus requires more equipment.
Illustrative Average Subproject Cost Over Three Years
(in thousands of constant 1976 US dollars)
Foreign Exchange
Cost          Local Cost      Total        %
Capital Costs                 310                85           395        53
Operating Costs                50               300           350        47
Total                   360               385           745        100
In percent               48                52           100



- 13 -
4.21      A minimum program size of an average of nine subproject starts per
year was determined based on the following considerations. It is estimated
that the proposed program could have an average overall success rate of
one-third, i.e. similar to that experienced by CAICYT; then the probability is
less than 3% that all of the nine subprojects begun each year will be failures.
Thus, nine subprojects would provide a high level of confidence that at least
one successful subproject will materialize. In practice, the probability of
success is likely to be higher already at the beginning of the program. This
is concluded from recent findings of the Ministry of Industry which indicate
the existence of a substantial range of project opportunities thus permitting
choice and the selection of those projects with the best chances for success.
A program with nine subprojects per year would - after a three-year build-up
- spend about US$7 million (in constant 1976 US dollars) annually including
administrative costs and would represent about 10% of the expected gap in
national RD&E expenditures. The estimated budget and financing of the program
during the initial five-year period are discussed below. It should be emphasized
that this characterization of the program provides a "model", and the figures
cited are not intended to impose conditions or constraints on actual decisions.
E. Project Cost, Financing, Procurement and Disbursement
4.22      The procedures for deriving cost estimates and financing needs
are based on probabilistic or expected values because this project type
is new and inherently cannot be easily related to a set of specific project
activities at this time.
1.   Cost Estimate
4.23      As discussed in para. 4.21 above, the minimum critical size of the
RD&E program is based on nine subproject starts per year, each costing
US$745,000 on average over a three-year period. The estimated cost for the
program over a five-year period is discussed in detail in Annex 3.4 and
summarized below:



- 14 -
Summary Cost Estimate for Five Year Period /a
Foreign    Local            Foreign    Local
Exchange  Currency  Total  Exchange  Currency Total   % of
Cost /b   Cost      Cost     Cost /b   Cost    Cost   Cost
(millions of pesetas)      (millions of US dollars)
Subproject Costs
(9/year)
a.  Capital Costs         924        251   1,175    14.0         3.8     17.8    56
b. Operating Costs
(primarily
services)           119        713     832      1.8       10.8     12.6    39
Sub-Total        1,043        964   2,007    15.8       14.6      30.4    95
Administrative Costs /c       -         99       99     -          1.5       1.5     5
Base Cost Estimate /d    1,043       1,063   2,106    15.8        16.1      31.9   100
Provision for Price
Escalation (26%) /e       264        290      554     4.0        4.4       8.4    26
1,307     1,353   2,660    19.8        20.5      40.3   126
/a   At an exchange rate of Ptas. 66 = US$1.0.
/b   Includes indirect foreign exchange requirements of US$5 million equivalent.
/c   Estimated at US$300,000 per year.
/d   In 1976 prices.
/e   Assumes annual escalation rate of 8% in 1976; 7.5% in 1977-79 and 7%
in 1980-82.
4.24      The proposed RD&E program is thus estimated to require about US$40
million (Ptas. 2,660 million) equivalent over the initial five-year period
including about US$20 million (Ptas. 1,307 million) in foreign exchange, all
in current terms. The cost estimate, due to its very tentative nature does
not show a contingency reserve separately. Nevertheless, the above estimate
is considered conservative since it assumes annual funding for the nine
subprojects from the very beginning of the Unit's existence (1977/78) while
in practice a slower build-up must be expected, with the level of the nine
subprojects being reached (or surpassed) only in the third or fourth operating
year. The cost estimate also assumes that about 56% of the base cost estimate
will he needed for capital costs mostly in the form of pilot plant and testing
equipment and the remaining 44% for operating costs of the subprojects and
administrative expenditures of the Unit. The estimate contains a provision of
26% for price escalation.
2.   Financing Requirements
4.25      The following table shows the financing requirements or budgetary
support needed for the above program and the time when the program may be
expected to become financially self-sustaining, assuming nine subprojects
are started each year (with a success ratio of one-third), that the royalty
payments are made only during four years (which is conservative), and at a
breakeven level set at about US$0.58 million (in constant 1976 dollars) per



- 15 -
successful project. The table also shows that under the above assumptions, the
program will be self-sustaining after eight years. If the royalty payments
are higher or the period of payments longer, the time when self-sustained
operation is reached will be shorter. 1/ Conversely, the time will be longer
if the opposite is true or the project build-up slower than assumed in this
model. (For details of calculations see Annex 3.4).
Estimated Annual Budgetary Support for RD&E Program /a
Project &  Receipts from   Annual    Cumulative  Annual         Cumulative
Admin.     Successful   Budgetary  Budgetary  Budgetary   Budgetary
Year      Expenses      Projects      Support    Support    Support        Support
----(in millions of constant 1976 US$)--------- ----(in millions of
current US$)----
1 (1977/78) 4.9             -           4.9         4.9         5.3         5.3
2           6.0             -           6.0        10.9         6.9         12.2
3           7.0             -           7.0        17.9         8.8        21.0
4           7.0             -           7.0        24.9         9.4         30.4
5           7.0             -           7.0        31.9        10.0        40.4
6           7.0            1.8          5.2        37.1         8.0        48.4
7           7.0            3.5          3.5        40.6         5.7        54.1
8           7.0            5.2          1.8        42.4         3.1        57.2 lb
9           7.0            7.0          -          42.4         -          57.2
10          7.0            7.0          -          42.4         -          57.2
/a  Based on the equivalent of nine average subprojects financed each year
with a success rate of one-third and receipts set at a break-even level
of US$0.58 million (in constant 1976 US dollars) per successful subproject
over a four-year royalty period.
/b The foreign exchange portion is about US$37 million.
1/   The average royalty rate in Spain is estimated at 4% of a product's gross
revenues annually. It is assumed that royalties are paid for four years.
Under these conditions if each successful subproject pays a royalty of
US$583,000 annually, after eight years the revenues generated in this way
would match the annual financial outflow (constant 1976 US$).



- 16 -
4.26      From the current flow of project proposals into CAICYT and dis-
cussions with industry, it appears that there will be no difficulty in find-
ing nine subprojects even in the early years; however, if for reasons of
administrative constraints of the newly formed RD&E Unit one assumes that
the build-up is gradual, starting with three subprojects the first year,
then successively six, nine, twelve (for three years) before settling at a
steady state of nine subprojects annually, the program changes are small.
Budgetary support in current terms for the first five years would be US$37
million (instead of US$40) and the program would take nine years to achieve
self-sufficiency (instead of the eight mentioned in para 4.25). These cal-
culations are shown in detail in Annex 3.4.
3.   Sources of Financing
4.27      The initial five-year budget of the RD&E Unit of about US$40 mil-
lion will be financed by a direct Government grant of the same amount in-
cluding the proceeds of US$18 million from the proposed loan, which is some-
what less than the estimated foreign exchange component of the project (i.e.
US$ 19 million). This portion of the Bank loan will be made to the Government
at an interest rate of 8.2% for 13 years including three years of grace. The
Government in turn will pass on the loan proceeds in the form of a grant. The
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk of repayment of the Bank loan.
The Government has given assurances that: (a) it will provide the US$40
million to the Unit as a grant under conditions acceptable to the Bank as well
as any additional grant money as may be needed to fully utilize the Unit's
potential during the first five years of operations; and (b) it will support
the Unit financially as needed for a maximum of three additional years since
this total period thus provides an adequate test of the program.
4.   Procurement
4.28      The Bank funds for the project are expected to finance US$15.7
million of largely imported equipment and materials and US$2.3 million of
foreign exchange expenditures of foreign consultants, all under Bank guide-
lines. Domestic equipment suppliers will be granted a preference margin under
international competition for purposes of bid evaluation. International
competitive bidding will be applied, except for: (a) items and packages
costing US$100,000 or less; or (b) proprietary, limited, or long lead time
items critical to the timely completion of the subprojects, which will
be procured through international shopping. Items procured by international
shopping are not expected to be a substantial fraction of the total, but no
specific estimate of the amount can be made. Ownership of equipment and
materials will be determined in the contracts between the RD&E Unit and the
firms and/or institutions undertaking the actual work.
5.   Disbursement
4.29      The US$18 million Bank loan would be disbursed against 48% of
expenditures for specialized test equipment and materials and consultant's
services, excluding the Unit's staff salaries, office expenses and other ad-
ministrative costs. Disbursements by the Bank are expected to be completed by



- 17 -
end 1982. No precise schedule for disbursements can be given since disburse-
ments will be made against invoices submitted under specific sub-projects,
when these sub-projects have been approved under the guidelines established in
para. 4.14 and 4.16. It is, however, anticipated that the loan will be
disbursed approximately as follows: 1977 - 5%, 1978 - 20%, 1979 - 30%, 1980 -
20%, 1981 - 20% and 1982 - 5%.
6.   Audits
4.30      The Unit's accounts and financial statements will be audited by the
Borrower's Intervencion General de la Administracion del Estado; this is
acceptable to the Bank.
F.   Project Justification, Economic Benefits and Risks
4.31      It is not possible to calculate either a financial or an economic
rate of return for this project. Such a procedure would be circular at best,
because it would simply calculate a return based on factors, such as number of
subprojects, success rates, etc., that themselves have been used as the basis
for establishing the total size and funding required by the project. The
economic benefits are non-quantifiable, but subproject selection should not be
biased against projects which yield benefits that are difficult to quantify.
4.32      The project has clearly stated objectives and includes measures
of the performance that is expected. It initiates a systematic effort to
develop new products and processes leading to early commercial exploitation
where none has existed before. It creates an institutional organization and
set of procedures for controlling and directing the work that can be perpet-
uated as a part of Government policy for development. By encouraging the
participation of the private sector, as well as the public sector, it tries
to inculcate the habit of undertaking RD&E activities as a means to maintain
a strong competitive position in foreign as well as domestic markets. And
by establishing a norm of self-sustaining performance, it demonstrates the
feasibility of meeting a test of its effective use of resources. For these
reasons, it is judged that the project will yield potentially abundant--indeed
essential--benefits to a country at an appropriate stage in its industrial
development.
4.33      In a number of the semi-industrial countries, the level and com-
plexity of the industrial structure makes it logical and justifiable to under-
take projects that are aimed at improving the capabilities to undertake indi-
genous technological development. Spain is considered to be in an excellent
position to succeed in this type of project; consequently, this project may
well serve as a model for similar projects in other countries.
4.34      Many countries have adopted programs to develop indigenous techno-
logical capability rather than relying solely on licences for imported tech-
nology which, as was noted earlier, frequently contain clauses that limit
the user's ability to compete effectively in world markets. A brief study



- 18 -
was made of the programs to support indigenous RD&E in a sample of six coun-
tries and some developing countries that have been successful in penetrating
foreign markets (i.e. France, Sweden, United Kingdom, Canada, Korea, Brazil).
All of these countries have support programs, but they frequently differ in
size, scope, and emphasis of objectives; each country has adopted a "style"
of its own, but there are also elements in common. The programs typically
cover financial incentives, direct government support, schemes to reduce
the costs of innovation, or to reduce the risks of failure, increased re-
wards for successful innovators, and programs to restructure industry and
management along more efficient lines. The basic elements of the proposed
project in Spain are very similar to those adopted by these other coun-
tries, and the project will help establish Spanish industry on a reasonable
parity with the advantages available to their competitors in the EEC and
other markets. It has not been possible to quantify the exact benefits of
these support programs, but the costs and disadvantages of relying solely
on imported technology are well known and have caused countries to seek ways
to mitigate their most onerous effects (Annex 3.3).
4.35      There are risks, or more accurately, uncertainties in the project.
One such uncertainty is whether the success ratio of subprojects will be as
high as anticipated, but this would not fundamentally imperil the soundess of
the project; it would simply delay the time when the Unit's program is self-
sustaining and also raise the projected level of budgetary support for the
program. The greater uncertainty is whether the whole program will, for
economic and other reasons, elicit the kind of response from entrepreneurs
that is necessary. This potential danger may not be wholly forestalled, but
it should be reduced by providing for greater supervisory effort by Bank staff
(and consultants as needed) to help launch the project, particularly during
the early formative years.
V. AGREEMENTS
5.01      The legal documents will record the following major agreements and
assurances:
(a) A decree will be issued prior to the effective date of the loan
creating a servicio publico centralizado sin personalidad
juridica with powers to receive and administer the project
funds (para. 4.07).
(b) Prior to the effective date of the loan, a competent Managing
Director of the RD&E Unit acceptable to the Bank will be appointed
(para. 4.07).
(c)  The Unit's policies, its criteria for the selection and focus
of the RD&E projects, its operating procedures, organizational
structure and delineation of responsibilities between the Unit's
management and its Board of Directors have been agreed with the
Government (paras. 4.03-4.16).



- 19 -
(d)  The law necessary to transform the Unit into an autonomous
organization will be drafted and submitted to the legislative
body not later than December 31, 1979 (para. 4.07).
(e)  As part of the Bank's effort to help the Unit find its focus,
the definition of the work program during the initial three
years will be made in consultation with the Bank whenever
specific tasks are estimated to require in excess of US$500,000
(para. 4.16).
(f)  The Government will (a) provide the US$40 million required for
the initial five-year budget of the RD&E Unit as a grant under
conditions acceptable to the Bank as well as any other grant
money as may be needed to fully utilize the Unit's potential
during the first five years of operations and (b) further
support the Unit financially as needed for a maximum of three
additional years (para 4.27).
5.02      In view of the above agreements and assurances, the Industrial
Research, Development and Engineering Project provides a suitable basis for a
loan of US$18 million for a period of 13 years, including three years of
grace, at 8.2% interest.
Industrial Projects Department
April 22, 1977






ANNEX 2.1
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
ECONOMIC SETTING
A.   Growth and Transformation of Spain's Economy
1.        The years between 1960 and 1974 stand out as a period of rapid eco-
nomic growth and structural change which saw Spain rising to the lower strata
of the high income countries and its transformation into an essentially indus-
trial nation. During 1961-74, GNP expanded in real terms on average by 7.3
percent per year, one of the highest rates achieved among developing countries,
and the second highest, after Japan, among OECD countries. Spain's GNP per
capita, growing at an average annual rate of about 6.1 percent during this
period, reached $2,300 in 1974. 1/
2.        Industry, the leading sector, grew at an average rate of 9.6 percent
per year during 1961-74. As a result of this dynamic development, the share
of industry in GDP at constant 1970 factor cost rose to 41 percent in 1974,
from approximately 30 percent in 1960. The service sectors, also reflected
in their share in GDP at constant factor cost, appear to have maintained their
combined relative weight in the economy, hovering around 48 percent. Agricul-
ture, however, declined significantly in importance, as its share in GDP dropped
to about 10 percent in 1974, a ratio typically found among many developed coun-
tries.
3.        The intensity of these structural changes involved major shifts in
the composition of Spain's labor force and the emergence of unprecedented
migratory movements, with almost every second Spaniard changing residence
during 1961-74. The resulting impact on the pace of urbanization and the need
for transport and social services can only be indicated here. During 1961-74,
Spain's agricultural labor force declined by 1.9 million to 3.0 million in
1974, and its share in total labor force dropped from 42 percent in 1960 to
23 percent in 1974. While the share of the labor force engaged in industry
increased only from 30 percent to 36 percent during this period, reflecting
the largely capital-intensive nature of emerging new industries, the service
sectors became the most important source of domestic employment. In 1974,
about 40 percent of Spain's labor force was engaged in service activities,
compared to 27 percent in 1960. However, substantial underemployment became
a consequence of government policies aimed at avoiding open unemployment.
Mainly as a result of domestic employment creation and a labor legislation
inhibiting the discharge of redundant workers, open unemployment has not been
1/ Calculated according to the modified Atlas methodology.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 2
a serious problem in the past. The employment situation was furthermore al-
leviated by a substantial emigration of labor abroad, mainly to Western Europe,
and a comparatively low participation of female labor.
4.        Spain's impressive economic surge has been effectively stimulated
by the drastic change in orientation of Spanish economic policies after 1960,
bringing to an end over two decades of policies of self-sufficiency that were
forced upon Spain by her political isolation in the years following the Civil
War (1936-39) and World War II. The new orientation, which was essentially
facilitated by the success of the 1959-60 Stabilization Program and the
rapid rise of earnings from tourism and remittances from emigrant workers,
led to a gradual liberalization of economic policies and to the promotion of
economic growth, through extensive investment and production incentives, in
the framework of long-term development objectives. As the economy was opened-
up to foreign goods and capital, involving a considerable transfer of new
technologies and know-how, a strong impetus was given to increasing invest-
ment and production. This process of integration with world markets has now
advanced very far from the conditions of the past. However, with institu-
tional and structural changes in Spain lagging behind this process of inte-
gration, Spain is likely to face some difficult problems of adjustment in
the future, particularly in view of the expected much closer relationship
to the European Common Market. A good many of the inherent institutional
and structural weaknesses-of the Spanish economy, such as the relatively
small public sector and the deficient tax system, the important structural
and managerial weaknesses in industry, and, what follows from the latter, the
neglected efforts to strengthen industrial capabilities in product development
and marketing, all these have been less evident and apparently less urgent to
overcome as long as the Spanish economy drifted on the leeside of a fast grow-
ing world economy.
5.        These conditions, however, no longer exist.  Since about mid-1974,
Spain has been seriously affected -- as other countries -- by economic reces-
sion and a deterioration of its balance of payments. Real growth of GDP at
market prices fell from a rate of 8.4 percent in 1973 to 5 percent in 1974,
and it was at barely 1 percent in 1975. In addition, the balance of payments
on current account reversed from a surplus of $557 million in 1973 to deficits
of over $3.1 billion in 1974 and almost $3.5 billion in 1975.
6.        The exceedingly strong reversal of Spain's balance of payments on
current account, after surpluses during 1970-73, is not only a reflection of
the substantially increased external dependence of the economy but also of
some failures in Spain's import and export behavior of the past. The latter
is discussed separately with particular reference to industrial imports and
exports (paras. 38-40). For the understanding of past and current balance
of payments conditions and the need of their strengthening, some general
observations are, however, necessary at this point.
7.        Spain has, since its turn-about in economic policy orientation of
the early 1960s, persistently experienced high balance of trade deficits.
These deficits, averaging some $1.8 billion during 1965-70, $2.5 billion



ANNEX 2.1
Page 3
during 1971-73 and over $7.1 billion during 1974-75, reflect largely the very
strong growth of imports of investment goods, raw materials and semi-manufac-
tures that went along with the country's industrialization and modernization.
The dramatic increase of the trade deficit in 1974-75 is primarily the result
of the price increases of petroleum and industrial imports. Rising food im-
ports also contributed as Spain's food balance turned to a deficit. On the
whole, imports of raw materials and semi-manufactures explain 58 percent of
the absolute growth of commodity imports during 1962-74. Their weight in
total imports has been rising, particularly in recent years. Investment
goods accounted for 21 percent of the absolute growth of imports during the
same period, but their incidence in Spain's import growth has -- as may be
expected -- shown a declining trend. Despite the strong overall growth of
imports, Spain has been able -- until recently -- to cover an increasing
proportion of its import demand by exports. This has been largely due to
the successful expansion of industrial exports (semi-manufactures, invest-
ment and consumer goods) which contributed over 60 percent to the absolute
export growth experienced during 1962-74. Foodstuffs, the traditional
basis of Spain's exports, accounted for only about 20 percent of Spain's
export growth during this period.
8.        Earnings from tourism and workers remittances have in the past been
the most important offsetting items to Spain's large trade deficits. The for-
eign exchange inflow from these sources has kept the balance of payments def-
icit on current account during the 1960s at tolerable levels and even generated
surpluses during 1970-73. On the average of 1965-73, net earnings from tourism
alone helped offset 77 percent of the trade deficit and paid for 35 percent of
Spain's commodity import bill (f.o.b.). In 1973, when Spain was visited by
34.6 million tourists, net earnings from tourism reached a volume of almost
$2.9 billion. Workers' remittances have grown at a slower rate than tourism
earnings, reaching $0.9 billion in 1973. However, as the major industrial
countries entered a recessionary phase in 1974, earnings from tourism and
workers remittances suffered sensible setbacks. Both sources have since
1974 no longer been adequate to offset the surging trade deficit, giving
rise to the re-emergence of very large deficits on current account.
9.        Owing to substantial net inflows of medium and long-term capital,
primarily from private sources, Spain's basic balance showed surpluses from
1967 to 1973. The net inflow of private medium and long-term capital aver-
aged about $640 million a year during this period, of which 74 percent was
accounted for by direct, portfolio and real estate investments. Public
medium and long-term capital inflows have been at moderate levels through-
out the period, with amortizations exceeding disbursements during 1970-73.
10.       The favorable development of Spain's balance of payments on cur-
rent account, together with an overall surplus on capital account during
1970-73, led to a strong accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. At
the end of 1973, total net reserves stood at $6.8 billion, equivalent to
seven months of imports of goods and non-factor services. However, this
favorable trend could not be maintained after 1973. Although a substantial
increase in foreign borrowings, particularly from suppliers and international



ANNEX 2.1
Page 4
capital markets, helped to stem the effects of the sharp deterioration of the
balance on current account, net foreign exchange reserves declined to $5.8
billion by the end of November 1975. This was equivalent to less than four
months imports of goods and non-factor services. On February 9, 1976, the
Government decided to devaluate the peseta against the US dollar. A parity
of Ptas. 66 per dollar was established replacing the previous parity of Ptas.
58.3 per dollar which had been valid since February 1973.
B.   Industrial Performance and Development Pattern in Manufacturing
11.       The rapid progress of industry since the early 1960s and the pattern
of industrial growth have been strongly influenced by special factors, includ-
ing:
the pent-up needs of the Spanish economy, including industry,
accumulated in more than two decades of supply constraints;
-    the attraction of the Spanish market to foreign firms owing
to its comparatively large size, the prevalence of low labor
costs, and the proximity to EEC countries;
-    and the acceleration in the 1960s in the growth of world
trade in industrial products.
12.       It should be recalled that Spain's industry production of the early
1960s compared unfavorably with other European countries, both in terms of
its diversity and in standards. At that time, a good many industrial firms
were operating with obsolete equipment. Sales of manufactured goods abroad
were small, with only 5 percent of total manufactured output being exported
in 1961. As the gradual liberalization made it possible to import capital
goods and industrial imports more freely and domstic demand increased rapidly,
this provided a strong incentive to industry to expand and renovate a large
part of its capacities and to shift production increasingly to more sophis-
ticated goods. The intensity with which this process took place explains
the very high growth rates of industry experienced in the early 1960s. The
specific patterns of growth in industry in these earlier years, as well as
its impact on industrial exports, are discussed in para. 15 below. At this
point, it is important to bear in mind, that it was essentially the utiliza-
tion of up-to-date equipment and of fairly recent technical know-how that
provided a good deal of the initial push in industrial output and subse-
quently in exports. The quite sweeping process of replacing older industrial
equipment also contributed to improve the competitive position of many Spanish
manufacturers over their foreign competitors. This was mostly in addition
to already existing advantages provided by lower labor costs, the virtual
absence, during most of the 1960s, of labor conflicts, and the great flexi-
bility in producing to changing specifications.
13.       A large part of the overhaul of capacities and the introduction of
new technological processes was attributable to growing foreign participa-
tions in Spanish enterprises, both through direct and portfolio investments.
Foreign investors were mainly motivated by the opportunities of the rapidly



ANNEX 2.1
Page 5
growing Spanish market. Also the creation of the EEC in 1958 and expecta-
tions of future improved access to the EEC market were important factors
behind the decision of foreign manufacturers, notably from the U.S., to
gain footing in Spain. While foreign participations in Spain were essential
for the introduction of important technological, managerial and organizational
changes on the enterprise level, they also brought about some important dis-
advantages to Spanish firms, which now have become more evident as Spain's
industry is facing significant marketing limitations with respect to its
current range of products.
14.       Finally, industry's past record of growth may be linked to the
acceleration in the growth of world trade in manufactured goods, in which
Spain was able to participate. Manufactured exports developed faster than
Spain's industrial production, and world manufacturing output. In 1974,
Spanish manufacturers exported about 14 percent of their output as compared
with 5 percent in 1961.
15.       Based on national accounts data, real growth in manufacturing was
at an average annual rate of close to 10 percent during 1961-70 and at 7.1
percent during 1971-75. Three periods of outstanding growth performance may
be distinguished since 1960. The first one covered the years 1961-66. This
was a period of rapid and "easy" growth with virtually all industrial subsectors
participating in these booming developments. During this relatively long
cycle, which saw manufacturing value added growing at a rate of almost 12 per-
cent per year in real terms, structural weaknesses remained largely hidden.
The recession of 1967-68 brought an end to the 1961-66 cycle. As domestic
demand slackened during 1967 many Spanish firms entered export markets for the
first time. The second growth cycle lasted only two years, from 1969-70, and
development patterns among the various subsectors were -- contrary to the
situation during the first cycle -- much more differentiated. In particular,
the metal transforming and engineering goods industries expanded much more
slowly than most other subsectors as the need for market demands to catch up
to the previous rapid expansion of the production capacities arose. After
a deceleration of industrial growth in late 1970 and the first half of 1971,
which was linked to uncertainties as to the direction of the Government's
monetary and balance of payments policies, Spain's manufacturing sector passed
during 1972-73 through a third -- and for the firt time being last -- cycle of
very strong expansion. During these two years, real growth in manufacturing
exceeded an average of 13 percent per year, with the highest growth rates
experienced in the non-traditional heavy industries. In 1974, this cycle
weakened rapidly. The downturn was further accentuated by external factors,
notably the dramatic rises in prices for energy and raw materials. Later
than other industrial countries, Spain plunged in 1975 into severe recession,
when manufacturing value added fell in absolute terms by 2.5 percent. The
above description of the cyclical pattern of growth in Spanish manufacturing
may help to explain later in this report some features of the export behavior
of Spanish manufacturers in the past.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 6
16.       The most important contributors to growth in manufacturing
since 1960 have been non-traditional activities. National accounts data
suggest that basic metals, metal products and machinery, transport equip-
ment, and chemical products contributed together about 45 percent to the
absolute growth in manufacturing value added during 1961-70, with their
contribution to growth increasing to 57 percent during the period 1971-75.
The leading growth sectors were transport equipment (during 1961-70) and
the metal transforming and engineering goods industries (during 1971-75).
As a result of the strong growth of the non-traditional activities, re-
ferred to above, their share in total manufacturing value added, expressed
in constant 1970 factor cost, reached 52 percent in 1975. On the other
hand, light industries lagged behind total manufacturing growth, which re-
sulted in a decrease of their shares. The food industry, in the 1960's
still the largest individual subsector in manufacturing, is currently con-
tributing less to manufacturing value added than the metal transforming and
engineering goods industries or the transport equipment industry. Parti-
cularly lagging throughout the period under consideration have been tex-
tiles, wood, cork and furniture, while apparel and footwear, after having
grown about in line with total manufacturing value added during the 1960s,
have been slackening in recent years.
17.       Despite the rapid expansion and diversification of industry and
the profound changes in the overall economic environment of Spain, the coun-
try's industrial structure continues to be characterized by the predominance
of small enterprises, mostly family-owned firms. Although there appears to
be sufficient evidence now that concentration in manufacturing has been
taking place, this process has been rather slow and mostly related to the
disappearance of small firms and growth of larger units. According to the
most recent official survey of the largest industrial enterprises 1/, there
were in 1973 only 429 manufacturers in Spain which either had a turnover of
more than Ptas. 400 million (about $6.9 million) or employed more than 1,000
persons. These enterprises employed only 20 percent of the labor force en-
gaged in manufacturing and their contribution to total manufacturing value
added of that year was 37 percent. Of the same group of large enterprises
only 336 were also exporters. These latter firms accounted for slightly
more than half of total exports of the manufacturing sector.
18.       The degree of industrial concentration is also reflected in the
share of sales of the largest five firms as compared to the total volume of
sales in a given branch of activity. Official estimates for 1973 suggest
the largest degree of concentration for oil refining (89 percent) and ship-
building (81 percent), followed by motor vehicles (46 percent), iron and
steel (38 percent) and the electrical engineering industry (32 percent).
At the lower end were the food and textile industry (4 percent each) and
the mechanical engineering industries (12 percent).
1/   Ministerio de Industria, Las 500 grandes empresas industriales espanfolas
en 1973, Madrid, 1974.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 7
C.   Manufactured Exports and Industrial Competitiveness
19.       Exports of industrial goods have been growing rapidly since 1964,
with the highest rates, however, being achieved since 1967/68, when slug-
gish domestic demand and the incentives given by the peseta devaluation of
November 1967 motivated many Spanish manufacturers to increase sales abroad.
In this latter period, outlets in other countries have frequently been es-
tablished for the first time.
(a) Exports of Investment Goods
20.       Spain has been particularly successful in expanding her sales of
investment goods, which in 1974 reached a volume of over $1.3 billion com-
pared with less than $100 million in 1965. The share of investment goods
in total commodity exports rose during the same period from 10 percent to
19 percent. Exports of investment goods for industry and the transport sec-
tor increased most. An outstanding example has been the export of ships
(including marine equipment). Ship sales abroad increased from only Ptas.
1.35 billion in 1965 to Ptas. 22.56 billion ($392 million) in 1974, thus
becoming the largest single export of Spain. As a result of this strong
expansion of exports, Spain has become fourth in the world as ship builder,
competing with industrialized countries like Japan, Sweden, Germany and the
United Kingdom. Much of the past dynamism of Spanish ship-building can be
attributed to the rapid growth in world demand, particularly for bulk
carriers, which Spain met by diversifying its production capacities, using
the most recent technologies. Distinct advantages in labor costs over
Spain's major competitors and flexibility in adjusting to market require-
ments were essential factors behind the Spanish industry's competitiveness,
but not the only ones. Also Spain's more favorable climatic conditions,
as compared to other competing nations, and the virtual absence of labor
unrest aided. More recently, however, the Spanish position has been af-
fected by decreasing world demand of ships, and Spanish ship exports have
been declining in real terms. With medium-term prospects of world demand
for ships expected to remain depressed -- except probably for smaller
carriers -- and diminishing labor cost advantages, Spain's ship exports
are expected to grow at rather slow rates, if at all. Additional problems
for Spanish shipbuilders may arise from likely further changes in ship
technology, particularly with respect to the increasing equipment of ships
with electronic gear and with medium-speed diesel engines and gas turbines.
In these fields, Spain's capabilities are essentially untried or non-
existent, which could result in a growing dependence on foreign licenses
and a further loss in competitiveness.
21.       One of the fastest growing exports of investment goods are tires.
The export volume increased from negligible amounts before 1967 to Ptas. 10.66
billion (US$185 million) in 1974; thus becoming the third most important in-
dustrial export item after ships and shoes. It exceeded in 1974 for the
first time even Spain's car exports. The fact, that in 1974 over 80 percent
of Spain's tire exports were destined to other industrial countries in
Europe and to the USA suggests that Spain was able to develop some absolute



ANNEX 2.1
Page 8
(rather than comparative) advantages in tire production. Attainment of
economies of scale and the capability to produce to specifications that
are less attractive to other industrial countries may have been important
factors behind this success. One should expect good opportunities for tire
exports, particularly also of industrial tires, to more countries, includ-
ing developing countries.
22.       In other investment goods exports, Spain has made advances also
in pumping equipment and in small electrical equipment and components,
mostly toward European markets. But the weight of these commodities in
Spain's total exports is still comparatively small. In several of these
production lines Spain was able to increase its competitiveness by special-
ization and the development of modified designs. Again, most products in
question have relatively high labor contents.
23.       Exports of trucks and other industrial vehicles have been quite
erratic through 1972, largely because rapidly rising domestic demand pro-
vided little incentives to seek outlets abroad. Only since 1973 have
exports increased more rapidly particularly to North African and Asian
countries and in the framework of bilateral trade agreements. Despite
achievement, with one truck producer, of an almost 100 percent national
content of production and the introduction of some technological improve-
ments, diseconomies of scale still are an important problem to be overcome.
24.       Traditional exports of the engineering goods industry, such as
textile machinery and machine tools have shown little dynamism, although
Spain has been able to stay in international markets because manufacturers
produced in small, individual series and with high product flexibility which
most more advanced industrial countries cannot afford anymore at competitive
prices. This situation is not likely to change as long as labor cost dif-
ferentials between Spain and other industrial countries exist. But any
further narrowing of this gap through increasing labor costs in Spain will
lead to the disappearance of many small enterprises that are still operating
in this market and to the gradual loss of export opportunities in this
special field.
(b) Exports of Intermediate Goods
25.       The export volume of semi-manufactures, excluding petroleum products,
has increased from only $72 million in 1965 to $1.2 billion in 1974. Its
share in total Spanish exports more than doubled during the same period,
reaching 17 percent in 1974. Among intermediate goods, exports have par-
ticularly expanded in organic and inorganic chemical products, and in iron
and steel products, including special steels. Export sales in these largely
standardized products, however, have either started or become more important
only in recent years. Organic chemical products, an essentially unknown ex-
port prior to 1965, reached in 1974 an export volume of Ptas. 9.37 billion
(US$163 million), while inorganic chemical products, except for the traditional
export item mercury, reached a volume of exports of Ptas. 5.22 billion ($91
million). Iron and steel products, predominantly structural steel and steel



ANNEX 2.1
Page 9
plates, have entered exports markets to some larger extent only since
1971/72, but sales abroad have been rather irregular, amounting in 1974
to Ptas. 7.56 billion ($131 million) for iron and steel products and
Ptas. 3.28 billion ($57 million) for special steels. Most of the export
sales were to EEC countries.
26.       Export of intermediate goods usually comprise a very small
portion of the industries' output in these products. Also, it appears
that exports in these items are not usually an indication of Spanish com-
parative advantages but are rather connected with and the result of capa-
city increases. Such increases generally produce surpluses in certain
product lines -- owing to capital indivisibilities in these technologically
more complex industries -- which lead to an accumulation of unsold stocks
unless these products are exported. Being in general less profitable to
the companies concerned than home sales, exports of intermediate goods are
frequently of temporary nature until domestic demand catches up or im-
balances in the existing production facilities are corrected. Exceptions
do, however, exist in a number of products in which Spain has comparative
advantages due to its endowment with specific raw materials (e.g. mercury,
silicates, some aromatics and, until recently, phosphates), and in product
lines characterized by a high degree of specialization such as alloyed steels.
(c) Export of Consumer Goods
27.       Consumer manufactures have increased their share in total exports
somewhat more slowly than other industrial exports, from 15 percent in 1965
to 22 percent in 1974. In absolute terms, exports of consumer manufactures
reached a volume of $1.59 billion in 1974 against $141 million in 1965.
28.       Among the great multitude of export items, shoes continue to take
by far the first place, representing the second most important item in
Spain's export list, after ships. Shoe exports have risen at a spectacular
rate, from less than $20 million in 1965 to $273 million (Ptas. 17.63 bil-
lion) in 1972, but have shown no further growth in recent years. Exports
of Ptas. 21.10 billion ($367 million) in 1974 were less than in 1972 in
real terms. The declining trend in this important export reflects largely
a gradual weakening of Spain's competitiveness due to higher labor costs,
with other industrializing countries offering labor cost advantages over
Spain, and gaining market shares (Brazil, Korea, Taiwan). However, the
lopsided dependence of Spain on one single market, the U.S., and weak-
nesses in marketing techniques (resulting from the atomization of the
Spanish shoe industry) also contributed. In the past, Spanish shoe ex-
ports had benefitted from abundant labor supply and relatively low labor
costs, which allowed Spanish manufacturers to offer and to maintain a high
flexibility in production (styles) at competitive prices. With foreign
demand expanding rapidly, small plant sizes and inadequate marketing ex-
pertise did not represent a major obstacle to exporting. This, however,
has been changing in recent years, and the atomized structure of this in-
dustry and its obsolescent marketing techniques now constitute the most
important problems for its future.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 10
29.       Similar problems to those of the shoe industry are now also
being faced in other exporting light industries (some branches of the
textile industry, leather goods, food canners). In food canning, particu-
larly of vegetables and fruits, marketing problems appear now to be the
most important constraint to further growth of this industry. Spain's
food industry is facing increasing competition from a number of developing
countries with more systematic and more aggressive marketing methods. Only
a few exports, in which Spain has an exclusive or almost exclusive supply
base (artichokes, olives), remain relatively unaffected. In book exports,
which have been a traditional stronghold of Spain in the past, expansion
has been slow in recent years (1974 exports amounted to Ptas. 8.52 billion
or $148 million), as editing and printing activities are increasingly as-
sumed by Latin American countries themselves, though frequently under Spanish
trade marks.
30.       A substantial part of the export push in consumer manufactures has
in recent years originated in more capital-intensive and technologically
more complex branches of industry. Outstanding examples are the export of
automobiles, spare parts for automobiles, household appliances and tools.
Car exports, almost exclusively smaller SEAT models, have increased very
rapidly during 1971-73, but export sales in 1974 (Ptas. 10.04 billion or
$175 million) stagnated owing to the recession in Western Europe. Spain
has in recent years penetrated into lower income segments of the European
car market that were no longer adequately attended by the big car manufac-
turers. Also, some major suppliers to the Spanish car industry were able
to develop markets for their products abroad. Products being exported in-
clude mainly electrical equipment such as starters, alternators and batteries
but also measuring instruments and similar products. Fairly recent new-
comers in Spain's export list are household appliances and toys, notably
products of relatively high labor content. In household appliances a de-
clining trend in the rate of growth of domestic demand explains in most
cases the export drive of Spanish manufacturers. Specialization on certain
products could help exporters to maintain their markets abroad also in the
longer run.
31.       The development pattern of Spanish manufactured exports has brought
much closer ties with the European Common Market. This has in part been sup-
ported by the conclusion of a Preferential Trade Agreement with the EEC in
1970 and subsequent further reductions of trade barriers vis-a-vis the
Common Market. The enlarged EEC was in 1974 the market for 47 percent of
total Spanish exports and for 42 percent of its manufactured exports. As
supplier the EEC accounted in 1974 for 36 percent of Spain's total imports
but for 63 percent of imports of manufactured goods. The accelerated pace
of integration with the EEC expected for the near future raises the important
question of how Spanish industry can be adapted to meet the growing compet-
ition from the more highly developed industry of the Common Market.
32.       In the past, emphasis had been given in Spanish economic policies
to structural improvements in the basic industries and to promotion -- through
preferential credit and tax incentives -- of those industrial subsectors
"that are in a position to export or to substitute imports under competitive



ANNEX 2.1
Page 11
conditions". Direct action was aimed at restructuring individual industries
(with varied success) and at changing the geographic distribution of in-
dustry so as to revitalize regions lacking an industrial base and to relieve
industrial congestion in certain centers. Over time a rather complex ad hoc
structure of overlapping incentives developed, the cost-effectiveness of
which has frequently not been clear and which is now in need of a thorough
review.
33.       Recent economic developments and prospects of Spain now call for
some major change in emphasis and, in part, different instruments of indus-
trial policy support. The outstanding issues are:
(a) in the short run to revive and to substantially increase
industrial investment and to promote the creation of addi-
tional, productive employment in industry; and
(b) in the medium and long run to improve and maintain compet-
itive capabilities in industry.
D.   Changes in Competitive Conditions of Industry
34.       The preceding chapters have described the increased dependence of
Spain's economy on the performance of the industrial sector. From the review
of Spanish industrial exports it has become evident that the conditions under
which Spanish manufacturers have to compete internationally have changed sub-
stantially, particularly in recent years. It has also become clear that
some of the factors that helped to establish competitive positions in the
1960s are gradually dissipating thus putting increasing pressure on industrial
enterprises to rationalize production, to develop new products and markets,
and to reorganize marketing arrangements.
35.       Labor cost advantages of Spain's industry are now less significant
as a factor to competitiveness than in the past. Wage costs per worker have
increased rapidly in recent years and social security costs have put a grow-
ing burden on enterprises. Both have substantially narrowed the labor cost
differentials that existed between Spain and other Western European countries.
Although labor costs in Spanish industry continue to be lower than those pre-
vailing in the EEC (as does productivity), Spain can no longer depend on
this factor for its competitiveness.
36.       In recent years, labor cost increases in Spain's industry have
also been in excess of productivity increases, leading to a deterioration of
the competitive position of industry as a whole. In line with this trend,
an increased competitiveness of foreign products is being observed in the
Spanish market, which is affecting most industrial sectors. 1/
1/   Ministerio de Industria, Informe sobre la evoluci6n de la
industria espaaola en 1975 (unpublished draft).



ANNEX 2.1
Page 12
37.       To compensate for the higher cost of labor and of other indus-
trial inputs 1/ and to maintain and increase competitive positions in
industry, intensive efforts are required on the part of industry and the
Government to achieve:
(a) a more rational utilization and allocation of productive
facilities, including manpower;
(b) improved scale economies through merger and other forms of
association and through specialization (discontinuation of
certain present product lines); and
(c) more effecient ways of marketing, including stricter measures
of product standardization and quality control.
All this will, however, not be enough to secure competitive positions in
the longer run, unless Spanish manufacturers are also successful in con-
tinuously developing and marketing new competitive products.
38.       The changes that are necessary require stronger managerial cap-
abilities than in the past when industry was generally more concerned with
keeping up with expanding demand. Under past conditions, adoption of for-
eign technologies, mostly without any modification seemed appropriate as
long as domestic demand grew rapidly and exporting remained on the margin
of interest. However, market conditions have been changing rapidly, both
in Spain and abroad, and firms that so far have relied on a fixed range of
products and continuous labor cost advantages, are now in a difficult posi-
tion to maintain their market positions. In addition to this, enterprises
that in the past have mainly depended on foreign licenses for their produc-
tion are now frequently squeezed between unfavorable domestic market con-
ditions and contractual restrictions to operate in extended markets, par-
ticularly abroad.
39.       There are other factors that have contributed to weaken indus-
trial positions. One of these factors is the failure of many Spanish
industrialists to establish themselves firmly in foreign markets. Exporting
has frequently been a matter of taking advantage of casual opportunities
rather than the result of systematic efforts to penetrate into markets.
Marketing efforts and export planning have been grossly neglected in the
past, and exporting was frequently the result of the initiative of foreign
importers or of the parent company of the Spanish firm. As a result of
this, a great number of Spanish industrial exports actually carry foreign
brand names.
40.       The other important factor, to be mentioned here, is the often
unqualified preference of Spanish investors and consumers for foreign pro-
ducts even if these products are more expensive than their Spanish counter-
1/   Import prices, for example, rose by 50 percent in 1974.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 13
parts of the same quality. This includes the public sector in Spain. Al-
though Spanish legislation requires the public sector to give preference
to Spanish suppliers, actual compliance has been and continues to be unsatis-
factory.
E.  Transfer of Technology and Spanish R & D Efforts
41.       Spain's rapid industrial growth and transformation during the
past 15 years were essentially based on the import and indiscriminate adop-
tion of the foreign technology available. In acquiring licenses, patents,
and foreign assistance services, Spanish manufacturers could be sure of
utilizing tried and proven techniques that relatively easily could be trans-
lated into new or improved processes and products. Indigenous efforts of
industry to adopt foreign technologies to Spanish conditions and to
promote the development and engineering of new products have been exceptions.
Only in more recent years, and under increased competitive pressures, have
some industries become more concerned with technological innovation, and a
few enterprises have become able to become exporters of technology. But
this process is at only its very beginning.
42.       Owing to the preference given to imported technology, Spain's
technology payments abroad have increased steadily, accounting for about
two percent of the foreign exchange outflow on current account in recent
years. In 1974, total Spanish payments for licenses, royalties and technical
assistance reached a volume of $316 million. During the same year, income
from technology transfers abroad was $36 million. The resulting deficit
in technology trade ($280 million) was not only one of the highest among
OECD countries, but it also compared unfavorably to developing countries such
as Korea.
43.       Several factors may have contributed to unduly inflate Spanish
technology payments in the past. One has been related to the common prac-
tice of Spanish manufacturers to acquire a license or a product line even
when a similar product line was already being produced in Spain. The
other factors are mainly connected with the negotiating process for licenses
and other technology transfers itself. Spanish firms have frequently been
in a disadvantaged position owing to size and their limited experience in
this type of operation.
44.       Government controls over transfers of technology to Spain were
virtually non-existent until 1973. A significant change in this respect
was introduced by the Decree 2.343 of 1973. 1/ Since then, Spanish firms
are required to obtain approval of the contractual arrangements involving
technology transfers from the Ministry of Industry. The main objective of
the relevant regulations is to supervise the selection and conditions of
technology transfers with a view to reducing contract prices, removing unduly
restrictive clauses on use, and channelling part of the technical services
1/   The legal provisions on the purchase of foreign technology
are described in Annex 2.3.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 14
to be contracted into the national engineering sector. Registry of the con-
tracts regulating transfers of technology with the Ministry of Industry is
also a prior condition to the authorization by the Ministry of Commerce of
payments in foreign currency resulting from such contracts.
45.       In the past, Spain has spent significantly more for the import of
technology than for all domestic research and development activities, in-
cluding basic research in science and social subjects. Although Spanish
expenditures on research and development have been rising more rapidly in
recent years--also in relation to total payments for foreign technology--
overall allocations to R&D are still strikingly small, spread too thinly
over far too many fields, and supporting too many institutions which are
each too small to have a significant impact on technological advancement.
Total Spanish allocations to research and development in 1974 amounted to
about $280 million. This was equivalent to 0.3 percent of GNP. With this
ratio Spain is placed in the range typical of countries at a lower stage
of economic development. Spain's ratio compared to those of Portugal and
Turkey, and it was well below the ratios of Israel (1.1), and Korea (1.6).
Particularly significant is the large difference in R&D efforts between
Spain and those countries that have increasingly become its main competi-
tors. The EEC countries, for example, spent in 1974 equivalents between
0.7 and 2.3 percent of their GNP on research and development, Japan 1.6
percent and the United States 2.6 percent.
46.       Spanish expenditure on research and development in the manufac-
turing industries, including industrial research associations, have been
less than 45 percent of total R&D expenditure in recent years. For 1974,
expenditure on industrial research and development amounted to an estimated
$126 million. This was equivalent to only 0.5 percent of the total value
of manufacturing output and to 40 percent of industry's payments for foreign
technology. Again, these ratios are very low compared to Spain's main compe-
titors indicating excessive dependence on undigested foreign technology.
Moreover, participation of the various industrial sectors in research and
development activities is markedly equal, with about 90 percent of industrial
R&D expenditure concentrated on the chemical and pharmaceutical industry,
metal transforming industries, and transport equipment.
47.       A quite similar picture was obtained from the 1973 survey of
Spain's largest industrial enterprises. For example, of the 429 largest
manufacturers surveyed only 232 reported conduct of research and development
activities. Their total spending on R&D amounted to 0.6 percent of their
combined value of output. The highest ratios of R&D spending were found in
electrical engineering (1.3 percent), followed by the transport equipment
sector (1.0 percent), the chemical industry -- except refining -- (0.8 per-
cent), and the mechanical engineering industry (0.8 percent). In the textile
and food industries the corresponding ratios were below 0.2 percent.
48.       Only 23 of the large industrial enterprises covered in the 1973
survey spent an equivalent of more than 2.5 percent of their sales for R&D
activities, the majority of which were enterprises of the pharmaceutical
industry. It would appear, however, that the comparatively larger weight



ANNEX 2.1
Page 15
of research and development expenditure at pharmaceutical firms is related
more to product testing than to product development. Of the 232 largest
Spanish manufacturers conducting research and development activities in
1973, chemical and pharmaceutical firms accounted for 24 percent of total
spending R&D, electrical engineering firms and car manufacturers for about
20 percent each.
49.       Spanish industrial research and development activities have in the
past been essentially confined to process and product improvements and to the
more or less continuous task of quality control and product standardization.
These efforts have mostly been in response to current market requirements,
notably customer specifications, and to legal requirements related to pro-
duct safety. However, different from most other industrial countries, there
have been virtually no systematic efforts in Spain to develop new or essen-
tially improved products to meet anticipated future market needs. This
efficiency now poses a problem to the future growth and prosperity of
Spanish industry. With the changed economic conditions and rapidly growing
foreign competition, both in foreign and domestic markets, many Spanish manu-
facturers will in future be facing the danger of losing out to foreign com-
petition unless vigorous efforts are made to seek out and develop new markets.
50.       The future competitive position of Spanish industry will thus in-
creasingly depend on the building of new competitive advantages through pro-
duct innovations based on Spanish technology. It is evident that specific
areas in which competitive advantages could be developed cannot adequately
be defined without prior detailed studies of future market opportunities and
the Spanish industrial and technological capabilities. Scope for advance-
ments in specific processes and product lines which could lead to maintaining
or improving competitive positions can be perceived in any industrial sub-
sector. But in a number of areas such advancements are more difficult to
achieve because the industry is too dispersed and managerial and technical
capabilities to do market studies and to design and develop new products are
inadequate or simply not yet available. Also in some industries, marketing
problems impose currently greater constraints to expansion than production
technologies.
51.       For these reasons and because of the limited resources available
for technological development, any industrial technology strategy for Spain
will have to be highly selective. Efforts need to be concentrated on areas
that not only promise to offer attainment of greater comparative advantages
but do already have good technical and engineering capabilities, with some
record of creativeness, and management knowledgeable of the state of the
art of developing new products and markets. These conditions are important
for securing the best possible prospects for the research, development and
engineering works to be done and for the eventual marketing of new processes
and products.   They cannot, of course, guarantee success, but may make suc-
cess more likely than any indiscriminate drive. Concentrated efforts in a
few areas may also serve as a model for subsequent work in other areas that
offer less favorable conditions at the technical and managerial levels.



ANNEX 2.1
Page 16
52.       Among the Spanish industrial subsectors that currently appear
best suited to make a significant contribution to the strengthening of
Spanish industry through technological advancements are the electronics
industry, the mechanical engineering industry, and food industries. Annex
3.4 gives a brief description of the conditions in these subsectors and
an outline of the scope for improved capabilities through development of
competitive, advanced products.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
STRUCTURAL CHANGES OF SPAIN'S ECONOMY
1960-74
Share in GDP at Constant                       Share in GDP at Current
Share in Total Labor Force                  1964 Factor Cost             1970 j 'actor Gost               Factor Cost
1960      1 965     1970       1974          1960       1965      1970       1970      1974           1960       1970      1974
Agriculture                41.7      33.9       29.1      23.0           23.3      17.4      15.0       11.8      10.3            23.7      11.8        9.8
W ning                      1.6       1.3       1.0        0.7            1.8       1.4       1.1        0.7       0.7             1.8       0.7        0.6
Indastr'y                  29.9      33.7      36.3       36.4          31.1       36.7      39.5       38.7     41.2            33.5       38.7       40.1
Service sectors            26.8      41.1      33.6       39.9          43.8       44.5     1414.4      48.8     47.8            47.0       48.8       49.5
Source:  Xinisterio de Planificacion del Desarrollo, Instituto Nacional de Estad5stica: Contabilidad Nacional de Espaiia and Encuesta de
Poblacion Activa (various years)                                         
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
ORIGIN OF GDP AT FACTOR COST, 1970-75
1970         1971         1972         1973         1974          1975         1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975L2
- in millions of current pesetas -                                      - in percent of GDP -
Agriculture, $orestry,
fisheries                  285,054      326,844       364,903      434,151      461,170      560,783       11.8    11.8    11.3   11.1       9.8   10.2
Mining                        16,655       17,504       18,975        22,732       27,051       31,650        0.?     0.7     0.6      o.6     0.6     o.6
Manufactiring                649,759      725,363      884,489    1,081,651    1,317,756    1,416,588        26.8    26.3    27.4    27.8    28.1    25.7
Energnr and water             77,329       88,939      100,004       107,054      133,734      144,194        3.2     3.2     3.1     2.7      2.8     2,6
Construction industry        212,000      226,416      263,322       337,579      432,100      477,903        8.7     8.2     8.1     8.7      9.2     8.6
Service sectors            1.183,617    1.374.754    1.599.629    1.911,59g    2Q34044    2,881 827         48.8    49.8    49.5   49.1    49.5    52.3
GDP at factor cost         2,424,414    2,759,820    3,231,322    3,594,762    4,695,065    5,512,945       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
- in millions of 1970 pesetas -                                    - growth rates in percent -
Aericulture, forestry,
fisheries                  285,054      302,801      306,097       318,680      323,704      335,034                6.2     1.1     4.1      1.6     3.5
Mining                        16,655       17,263       18,089        20,722       21,903       20,900                3.6     4.8    14.6      5.7    -4.6
Manufacturing                649,759      690,947       796,996      887,722      938,201      914,750                6.3    15.3    11.4      5.7   -2.5
Energy and rater              77,329       81,766       91,179        95,464      100,930       99,573                5.7    11.5     4.7      5.7   -1.3
Construction industry        212,000      209,644      228,976       24B,402      260,616      255,404               -1.1     9.2     8.5      4.9    -2.0
Service sectors            1.183.617    1,246,088    1.323.557    1,437,307    1,511,659    1,566 079                 5.3     6.2     8.6      5.2     3.6
GDP at factor cost         2,424,414    2,548,509    2,764,894    3,008,297    3,157,013    3,191,?40                 5.1     8.5      8.      l.9     1.1
j   Preliminary estimates
:w.urce: Cont'hilidad llacional de E-paha                                                                                                                      F'
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PATTERNS IN MANUFACTURING
1960 Shares                                   1970 Shares                             1975 Shares
in        Compound Annual Growth              in             Compound Annual          in
Manufacturinp'           Pates                Manufacturing         Growth Rates      ,4anufacturing
Sub-Sector                         Value Added   1961-66 1967-70 1961-70          Value Added         1971-74 1971-75    Value Added
%           P        %       %            %        %            %       X       
/1                                                              L /2   /2    /2 /3   /2
Food, beverages, tobacco                20.3          6.8     6.8      6.8        15.1    13.1           5.2      4.3         11.5
Textiles                                12.7          5.5     2.7      4.4          7.5     8.0          4.8      3.4          6.7
Apparel and footwear                     7.7         13.1     5.0      9.8          7.6     9.6          6.7      5.9          9.1
Wood, cork, furniture                    6.3          8.8     5.9      7.6         5.1      5.8          7.2      5.3          5.3
Paper, printing, editing                 4.1         14.6     7.2    11.6          4.7      5.1         14.3    10.8           6.0
Chemicals, rubber, plastics             10.4         13.4    10.1    12.0         12.6    11.2          10.3      7.4         11.3
Glass, cement, clay                      5.1         15.4     7.6    12.2           6.2     5.8         11.0      9.1          6.4
Basic metal produats                     7.1         11.5    12.2    11.8          8.3      8.7         11.7      8.4          9.3
Metal transforming, machinery           14.8         14.0     4.1      9.9         14.7    17.0         12.7      9.4         18.9
Transport eouipment                      8.0         19.2    10.9    15.8         13.4    11.8          13.3      8.8         12.8
Others                                   3.5         14.8    11.2 -3.3              h.8     3.9          0.9    -0.5           2.7
Total HanufPcturing                    100.0         11.7     7.4    10.0        100.0   100.0           9.6      7.1       100O0
/1 based on constant 1964 factor cost
7v based on constant 1970 factor cost
ZL  preliminaryj
Source: (ontabilidad Niacional de Espaf.a and mission estimates
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
MANUFACTURING VALUE ADDED 1970-75
At Constant 1970 Factor Cost (in million Ptas.)
Subsector                                   1970               1971          1972          1973          1974i                1975
Preliminary Estimate
Food, beverages, tobacco              85,029        13.1       86,462        89,918        94,636       103,977       105,017        11.5
Textiles                              52,088         8.0       54,209        57,450        60,317        62,728        61,473         6.7
Apparel and footwrear                 62,494         9.6       69,075        79,450        80,646        81,066        83,174         9.1
Wood, cork,furniture                  37,458         5.8       40,607        49,416        49,407        49,504        48,514         5.3
Paper, printing, editinga             33,140         5.1       42,731        48,608        53,648        56,607        55,475         6.0
Chemicals                             52,352         8.1       53,238        58,461        67,791        73,809        71,595         7.8
Rubber and plastics                   20,134         3.1       21,915        26,717        31,108        33,374        31,705         3.5
Glass, cement, clay                   37,724         5.8       38,572        45,574        54,936        57,293        58,324         6.4
3asic metal products                  56,775         8.7       60,275        68,707        80,893        88,450        8L,9l2         9.3
Metal transforming, machinery        110,500        17.0      117,037       145,051       168,479       178,355       173,000        18.9
Transport equipment                   76,974        11.8       81,859       101,301       120,456       126,970       117,066        12.8
Others                                25,111         3.9       24,967        26,344        25,404        26,069        24,495         2.7
Total Manufacturing                  649,759       100.0,.    690,947       796,997       887,721       938,202       914,750       100.0%.
Source:  Contabilidpd Nacional de EspaFa and mission estimates         .A
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
TNDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
BALANCE OF PAYMF.NTS 1960. 1965-75
(in million of US$)
1960        1965        1966        1967        1968         1960        1970        1971         1972        1973         1974        1975
Prel. Est.
1.    Imports, f.o.b.                           688       2,778       3,300        3,200       3,242       3,865       4,357        4.577       6,236       8,948       14,334    15070
2.    Exports, f.o.b.                           745       1,019       1,308        1,419       1,667       1,994       2,483        2,978       3,920        5,403       7,265      7,790
3.    Trade balance                              57      -1.759      -1,992      -1,781       -1.575      -1,871      -1,874       -1,599      -2,316      -3,545       -7,069    -7,280
4.    Freights, transport, insurances              8         -65         _10         -60         -46         -22          -36          30           -9         -54         -72         83
5.    Touri                                     247       1,027       1,202        1,111       1,111       1,195        1,543       1,878       2,231       2,878        2,807      3,095
6.    InvestIent income                         -14         -31          -73         -92        -110        -166         -174        -148        -176          -86          98      - 223
7.    Royalties, technical assistance           -10         -75         -90         -102         -98        -124        -118         -138        -178         -233        -279
8.    Other services                             15           56          40          18          28          63           78          66         153          183         157      - 299)
9.    Transfors                                  90         360          419         450         448         532          659         767         866        1,414       1,222      1,145
of which:
(10.)   Workere remittanceas                      (55)       (298)        (346)       (320)       (319)       (400)        (467)       (548)       (598)        (912)       (860)      (..)
11.    Balance on current account                393        -486         -564        -456        -242        -393           78         856         571          557      -3 136    -3:479
12.    Private HM6LT capital                     107         322          303         502         436         481          697         602         934          810       1,427      1,815
of which:
Direct investment                         (36)       (116)       (129)       (180)       (143)        (187)       (178)       (176)        (219)       (324)        (239)    (137)
Portfolio investment                      (11)        (53)        (55)        (50)        (34)         (10)       (-13)         (25)        (34)       (113)        (-56)    ( 26)
Real estate investoent                    (O)         (59)        (54)        (52)        (91)        (106)       (144)       (261)        (395)       (589)        (468)    (272)
Commercial credits and loans
to enterprises                          (60)        (94)        (65)       (220)       (168)       (178)        (388)       (140)        (286)      (-216)       (776)  (2,759)
13.    Public M&LT capital                        19         -14           41          33         145           24         -27        -103          -2          -45          53       613
14.    Basic balance                             519        -178        -220           79         339         112          748       1,355       1,503        1.322      -1,656    -1,051
15.    Short-term capital and
errors and omissions/1                 -60           47          33        -215        -268        -342           65         -98        -136          369         864        959
16.    Change in reserves                       -459         131          187         136         -71         230         -813      -1,257      -1,367      -1,691          792         92
(increase -)
/L  Includes revaluation adjustments
Source:  Miniisterio de Comercio, Balanza de Pagos de Eapana 1974, Madrid 1975, and estimates of the Ministerio de Comercio and the Banco de Espania
Industrial Projects Department
March  1976.



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
EXPORTS BY CGW4ODrrY CATEGORIES
(in million of US$)
I n d e x   (1961= 100)
1961        1965         1970         1971        1972         1973         1974                     '965    1970    1974
A.          Foodstuffs                              381.8        452.4        833.6       902.0      1,060.6      1.524.7      1,704.7                     118      218      446
B.          Raw Materials and
Semi-Manufactures                       234.6       275.1        669.0        847.5     1,077.1      1.559.5      2.486.1                      117     285   1.060
of which:
B.1    Raw materials for agriculture            11.7         16.6        18.6         20.8         24.7         28.6        75.5
B.2    Raw materials for food industry           1.3          2.6         3.9          3.4          3.2         4.9          6.1
B.3    Other raw materials for industry        112.1        151.6       249.9        258.5        277.9       417.6        735.0
B.4    Petroleum and Petroleum products         40.7         32.7        98.8         99.7        117.1        209.5       470.2
B.5    Semi-manufactures                        68.8         71.6       297.8        465.1        654.2       899.0      1,199.3
C.          Investment Goods                         22.9         98.3       417.1        534.5        709.4        922.6     1.328.8                      429   1.821   5.803
C.1    For agriculture                           0.2          4.9          6.1        12.3         15.8         27.5        55.7
C.2    For the transport sector                  3.4         41.7        189.2       236.4        366.5        451.1       591.4
C.3    For other service sectors                 0.7          1.4         13.7        16.4         20.9         25.6        44.2
C.4    For industry                             t6.8         45.5       202.3        264.3        303.0       414.6        633.6
C.5    Animals for breeding                      1.8          4.8          5.8         5.1          3.1          3.8          3.7
D.          Consumer Goods                           59.6        141.2       468.9        655.4        957.8      1.209.6     1,586.7                      237      787    2,662
of which:
D.1    Kotor vehicles                            0.7          5.0         34.0        64.8         89.0        166.1        187.1
D.2    Metal products                            7.8         23.2        79.1         97.0        136.2        172.2       243.5
D.3    Leather products                          1.8          4.2         25.9        35.2         57.0        (69.3        (88.7
D.4    Books                                     7.0         30.8         66.0        84.6        110.4        119.2        148.1
D.5    Apparel and footwear                     17.9         35.8       170.7        256.5        392.9        431.1       559.2
D.6    Others                                   24.4         42.2        93.2        117.3        172.3        251.7       360.1        _
Total Exports, f.o.b.                   698.9       967.0      2,388.6      2,939.4     3,804.9      5,216.4      7,106.3                      138     342   1,017
S1
0.9



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
EXPORTS BY COMMOD1TY CATEGORIES
SHARES IN THE ABSOLUTE GROWTH OF EXPORTS
(in million of US$)
1962-65                  1966-70                   1971-74                   1962-74
Total Export Growth                                       268.1        1007         1,421.6      100%         4,717.7       1007.      6,407.4       100%
of which:
A.            Foodstuffs                                   70.6         26.3         381.2        26.8          871.1        18.5      1,322.9        20.7
B.            Raw Materials and
and Semi-manufactures                       40.5        15.1          393.9       27.7        1,817.1        38.5       2,251.5        35.1
B.5      Semi-manufactures                            2.8          1.0         226.2        15.9          901.5        19.1      1,130.5        17.6
C.            Investment Goods                             75.4         28.1         318.8        22.4          911.7        19.3      1,305.9        20.4
C.1     For agriculture                               4.7          1.8           1.2         0.1           49.6         1.1         55.5         0.9
C.2     For the transport sector                     38.3         14.3         147.5        10.4          402.2         8.5        588.0         9.2
C.3     For other service sectors                     0.7          0.2          12.3         0.9           30.5         0.6         43.5         0.7
C.4     For industry                                 28.7         10.7         156.8        11.0          431.5         9.1        617.0         9.6
C.5     Animals for breeding                          3.0          1.1           1.0         0.1           -2.1         0            1.9         0
D.            Consumer Goods                               81.6         30.5         327.7        23.1        1,117.8        23.7      1.527.1        23.8
D.1     Motor vehicles                                4.3          1.6          29.0         2.0          153.1         3.2        186.4         2.9
D.2     Metal products                               15.4          5.7          55.9         3.9          164.4         3.5        235.7         3.7
D.3     Leather products                              2.4          0.9          21.7         1.5           62.8         1.3         86.9         1.4
D.4     Books                                        23.8          8.9          35.2         2.5           82.1         1.8        141.1         2.2
D.5     Apparel and footwear                         17.9          6.7         134.9         9.5          388.5         8.2        541.3         8.4
D.6     Others                                       17.8          6.7          51.0         3.6          266.9         5.7        335.7         5.2
Industrial exports
B.5, C.l-4, D.1-6                          156.8        58.5          871.7        61.3       2,933.1        62.2       3,961.6        61.8
Sources:  Direccion General de Aduanas and Gabinete de Mecanizacidn de la Secretaria General T5cnica del
Ministerio de Comercio.
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                                            M
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
PRINCIPAL EXPORTS OF SPANISH INDUSTRY
(in billion of pesetas)
Customs Classification and Nos.                                1966        1968         1970        1971        1972        1973        1974
Intermediate Goods                           10.70       18.27       25.95       34.17       43.17       55.34       82.89
28               Inorganic chemical products,
except mercury (28.05.31)                  0.32         0.64        0.89        1.06        1.50        1.59        5.22
29               Organic chemical products,
except items of groups 36 and 44           0.71         1.07        2.12        2.50        2.58        3.27         9.37
39.01,39.02      Plastic materials                             0.01        0.23        0.65        0.91         0.94        0.92        1.84
41               Hides and skins,
except items of group 01                   0.61         0.57        0.53        0.73        1.04        1.54         2.33
43               Furs, except items of group 01                0.18        0.34        0.93         1.43        2.04        2.70        3.26
44.13/a/19       Wood semi-manufactures                        0.11        0.30        0.45         0.77        1.01        1.27        1.29
45               Cork products, except items
of group 01                                0.67         0.80        0.86        1.00        1.15        1.29         1.67
48.01/a/09       Paper and paperboard                          0.26        0.33        0.66         0.99        1.45        1.64        3.51
51.01            Continuous man-made fibres                    0.11        0.45        0.45        0.73         0.89        1.03        1.38
55.05/06         Spun cotton                                   0.59        1.11        1.17         1.26        1.59        1.05        2.11
56.05/06         Discontinuous man-made fibres                 0.11        0.21        0.30        0.57         0.94        0.95        1.87
68               Processed stone and gypsum products           0.25        0.47        0.89         1.08        1.28        1.54        2.14
69.01/a/08       Ceramics                                      0.07        0.10        0.51         0.90        1.27        1.59        2.55
73.02            Ferro-alloys                                  0.11        0.22        0.10        0.24         0.38        0.84        2.15
73.10            Iron and steel bars                           0.03        0.36        0.42         1.94        1.88        2.40        1.54
73.11            Structural iron and steel products             .           .          0.34         1.67        3.06        3.67        3.92
73.13            Iron and steel plates                          .            .         0.10        0.92         0.91        3.20        2.10
73.15            Alloyed steel                                  .            .         0.76        0.81         1.08        2.11        3.28
73.18            Iron and steel pipes                           .            .         0.67         1.06        1.71        2.54        2.73
73.36            Stoves, ovens                                  .            .         0.43        0.57         0.83        0.90        1.30
All other intermediate goods                  6.56       11.07       12.72       13.03       15.64       19.30        27.33
Investment Goods                            11.96        15.93       30.26       40.35       49.13       57.57        82.64
40.11            Tires                                         0.29        1.42        2.91         4.86        6.09        7.84       10.66
84.10/11         Pumping equipment                             0.08        0.16        0.45         0.52        0.64        0.95        1.81
84.22            Lifting and loading equipment                 0.13        0.21        0.58         1.04        0.91        1.23        1.35
84.36/37/38      Textile machinery                             1.44        3.64         1.69        2.16        2.27        2.57        3.64
84.45            Machine-tools                                 0.64        1.13         1.88        2.38        2.54        2.50        4.03
85.01            Generators, motors and transformers           0.15        0.22        0.89         1.11        1.06        1.31        2.00
85.19            Switches and other instruments for
electrical circuits                        0.19         0.25        0.92        1.14        1.25         1.58        2.17
85.21            Lamps, tubes, electronic valves,
glass valves                                 .           .          0.15        0.09        0.39         1.12        1.56
85.23            Electric cables                               0.09        0.26        0.59         0.85        0.54        0.89        1.87
84.06            Combustion engines                            0.20        0.29        0.58         1.07        1.01        1.69        2.78
84.51            Typewriters                                   0.16        0.51         1.18        1.49        1.21        1.29        1.43
85.13            Telephones and other tele-
comnunications equipment                   0.07         0.26        0.59        0.75        0.80        0.82         1.44
86               Railway equipment                               .           .          1.14        1.82        2.05        2.47        1.15                        , .
87.02,11-19      Motor vehicles (except passenger                                                                                                                   E x
cars, motorbikes)                          0.76         0.22        0.61        0.63        0.38         1.52        1.85
89.01            Shlips                                        5.51        3.76        8.69       10.39        16.10       15.64       22.56
All other investment goods                    2.25        3.60        7.41       10.05       11.89        14.15       22.34



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
PRINCIPAL EXPORTS OF SPANISH INDUSTRY
(in billion of pesetas)
Customs Classification and Nos.                                 1966        1968        1970        1971         1972        1973        1974
Consumer Goods                               12.29       20.91       35.73       49.93        66.54       75.23        97.92
30               Pharmaceutical products                       0.26         0.31        0.55        0.78        0.80         0.97        1.43
42               Leather articles, except items
of groups 01 and 04                         0.41        0.82        1.59        2.12         3.01        3.14         3.92
44.20-28         Wood products                                 0.78         0.80        1.08        1.18         1.41        1.50        1.90
48(part)         Paper products                                0.14         0.16        0.38        0.38        0.53         0.78        1.29
49               Books                                          2.36        3.10        4.62        5.92         7.11        6.85        8.52
51.04, 56.07    Fabrics made from man-made fibres              0.27         0.48        0.97        1.16         1.72        2.08        3.16
60               Knitting wear                                 0.57         1.09        1.07        1.58        2.73         2.69        3.73
61, 62           Apparel and articles for dressmaking          0.76         1.39        2.09        2.63         3.55        4.08        5.10
64               Shoes                                          1.18        4.70        7.62       12.51        17.63       16.57       21.10
69.09-14         Ceramics                                      0.11        0.17         0.31        0.38        0.49         0.64        1.20
70.10/13/14      Glass products                                0.06         0.13        0.29        0.47        0.61         0.70        1.00
71.12-16         Jewelry articles                              0.14         0.23        0.44        0.63        0.87         1.10        1.57
82               Tools                                         0.50         0.57        1.24        1.80        2.04         2.32        3.62
83.07            Lamps and light fixtures                      0.53         0.68        1.00        1.09         1.60        1.86        2.12
84.15.01/02      Refrigerators                                   .           .          0.87        1.24        1.17         1.19        1.69
85.06/10/12      Household appliances                          0.04         0.06        0.21        0.29        0.55         0.75        1.09
87.02.01/09      Automobiles                                   0.25         0.74        1.99        4.21        4.91         9.38       10.04
87.06            Spare parts for motor vehicles                0.42         0.64        1.85        2.08        2.67         3.53        4.81
93               Weapons, except items of groups
03 and 06                                   0.52        0.63        0.61        0.70         0.86        1.04         1.39
94               Furniture, except items of group 02           0.54         0.72        1.34        1.67        2.79         3.51        4.57
97               Toys and sporting goods, except
items of group 08                           0.26        0.40        0.73        1.14         1.83        2.43        3.32                        H >
All other consumer goods                      2.19        3.09        4.88        5.97         7.66        8.12        11.35
Ho 



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
PRINCIPAL EXPORTS OF FOOD INDWSTRY
(in billion of pesetas)
Customs Classification and NOs.                  1966         1968        197O         1971'       1972        1973         1974
15.07.01/02     Olive oil                         1.78         2.08'       7.99        9.53         4.23       10.30       10.90
16.04/05         Canned seafood                   0.96         1.26        2.41         2.49        3.00        3.08        3.96
20               Canned fruits and vegetables     4.19         6.94        8.27        9.68        10.99       13.62       15.20
22.09            Liquor                           0.15         0.29        0.47        0.60         0.74        0.80        1.29
Source: Ministerio de Hacienda, Direccicon General de Aduanas, Informe mensual sobre el comercio exterior (annual summaries)             <  3
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
IMPORTS BY CObYOD1rY CATEGORIES
(in million of US$)
19- 1                                                                                                      Index (1961-100)
1961          1965        1970         1971         1972         1973         1974                      1965    1970   1974
A.          Foodstuffs                              223.5         573.2        709.8        835.8     1.066.0      1,597.7      2,304.0                       256     318  1.031
B.          Raw Materials  and
Semi-Manufacturee                      598.6       1.457.7      2.512.5      2,585.2      3,417.5     4,690.8       8,951.9                      244     420  1,495
of which:
B.1    Raw materials for agriculture           (34.3)        (53.0)      (33.3)       (23.3)       (27.8)       (30.2)       (41.9)
B.2    Rew materials for food industry         (12.4)        (21.2)      (32.6)       (25.4)        (7.7)       (10.5)       (10.6)
B.3    Other raw materials for industry    (300.0)          (641.0)   (1,250.1)   (1,259.2)   (1,718.4)   (2,315.4)   (3,480.0)
B.4    Petroleum and Petroleum products    (167.1)          (269.7)     (540.8)      (724.9)      (877.1)   (1,144.0)   (3,713.8)
B.5    Semi-manufactures                       (84.8)      (472.8)      (655.7)      (552.4)      (786.5)   (1,190.7)   (1,705.6)
C.          Investment Goods                        233.9         818.8      1,224.6      1,211.2     1,839.8      2,645.1      3,244.7                       350     524   1,387
of which:
C.1    For agriculture                         (21.4)        (42.9)       (51.9)      (37.7)       (61.7)       (90.3)      (114.9)
C.2    For the transport sector                (44.4)        (88.8)      (200.2)      (137.3)     (296.3)      (484.7)      (580.8)
C.3    For other service sectors               (14.3)        (75.4)      (146.1)     (167.6)      (246.3)      (365.1)      (443.8)
C.4    For industry                           (153.8)       (611.7)      (826.3)     (868.6)   (1,235.5)   (1,705.0)   (2,105.2)
D.          Consumer Goods                           36.6         169.1        300.2        336.7       482.0         744.7       960.9                       462     820    2,625
of which:
D.1    Motor vehicles                          (12.5)        (16.0)       (20.9)      (21.8)       (32.4)       (57.0)       (49.4)
D.2    Metal products                           (4.7)        (42.5)       (73.5)      (90.3)      (110.5)      (165.5)      (224.8)
D.3    Leather products                         (o)           (2.1)        (4.3)       (3.8)        (6.5)       (11.1)       (12.9)
D.4    Book                                     (3.5)         (8.5)       (19.5)      (21.0)       (34.0)       (47.6)       (42.9)
D.5    Apparel and footwear                     (3.5)        (27.7)       (42.2)       (45.0)      (63.5)      (100.5)      (142.4)
D.6    Others                                  (12.4)        (72.3)      (139.8)     (154.8)      (235.1)      (363.0)      (488.5)
Total Imports, c.1.f.                 1,092.6      3,018.8      4,747.1      4,968.9      6,805.3      9,678.3    15,461.5                       276      434    1,415
m r.
CD.



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
IMPORTS BY COMMODrTY CATEGORIES
SHAgES IN THE ABSOLUTE GROWTH OF IMPORTS
(in million of US$)
1962-65                  1966-70                   1971- 74                   1962-74
Total Import Growth                           1 926.2      100%         1,728.3     1007         10,714.4    1007           14,368.9         100%.
of which:
A.     Foodatuffs                               349.7       18.1          136.6        7.9        1,594.2      14.9          2,080.5          14.5
B.     Raw materials and
*emi-manufacturec                     859.1       44.6        1,054.8       61.0         6,439.4      60.1          8,353.3         58.1
C.     Investment goods                         584.9       30.4          405.8      23.5         2,020.1      18.8          3,010.8          21.0
D.     Consumer goods                           132.5        6.9          131.1        7.6          660.7       6.2             924.3          6.4
Direct imports to industry /1
(B.2-3, B.5, C.4)                     1,195.7       62.1        1,018.0       58.9         4,536.7      42.3          6,750.4         47.0               H
0 M
/1      Not including imports of petroleum and petroleum products for industry                                                                                     "
Sources:  Direccion General de AdUianas and Gabinete de Mecanizacio'n de la Secretarta General Te,cnica del
Ministerio de Com_rcio.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



ANNEX 2.1
Table 9
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
DIRECTION OF TRADE - EXPORTS BY MARKET
(in billion of pesatas)
SITC                                                 1966         1970         1971          1972         1973         1974
0,1,4       Food, beverages, tobacco                 32.76        58.66        63.40        68.47         88.84        98.02
EEC                                   14.21        27.56         29.97        38.83        52.78        57.88
EFTA                                   9.38         13.87        14.37         7.02         9.07          8.11
USA                                    3.04          5.64         6.73         8.84         8.80          9.78
LDC's                                  2.72          6.87         6.58         7.15        10.90         11.87
(in America)                          (1.40)       (3.07)        (2.59)       (2.95)       (3.72)        (3.67)
Others                                 3.41          4.72         5.75         6.63          7.29        10.38
2           Raw materials                             4.02         6.55         7.04          7.18         8.77        13.49
EEC                                    1.98          3.37         3.54         4.40         5.20          8.03
EFTA                                   0.71          1.38         1.51         0.54         0.60          0.86
USA                                    0.40          0.60         0.60         0.71         0.88          1.13
LDC's                                  0.40          0.77         0.92         1.01          1.21         2.09
(in America)                          (0.21)       (0.30)        (0.31)       (0.33)       (0.64)        (0.92)
Others                                 0.53          0.43         0.47         0.52         0.88          1.38
3           Petroleum, petroleum products             3.36         9.17         8.80          8.87        14.09        27.61
EEC                                    1.76         3.16          4.14         5.03         9.48         15.52
EFTA                                   0.49          2.60         1.93         0.82         0.51          1.18
USA                                    0.11          1.29         1.14         1.36         2.68          2.23
LDC's                                  0.37          0.63         0.58         0.58         0.38          6.60
(in America)                           (0)         (0.20)         (0)          (0)          (0)          (0.68)
Others                                 0.63          1.49         1.01         1.08          1.04         2.08
5           Chemical products                         4.64         8.77         9.91         11.02        13.87        30.85
EEC                                    1.26          2.68         2.92         4.14         5.83         13.35
EFTA                                   1.09         2.01          2.63         1.90         1.99          3.70
USA                                    0.57          0.67         0.80         0.80         0.99          2.07
LDC's                                  0.84          1.95         2.49         3.15         3.46          9.04
(in America)                          (0.38)        (0.81)       (1.03)       (1.27)       (1.44)        (4.46)
Others                                 0.88          1.46         1.07         1.03          1.60         2.69
6           Primary manufactured goods               10.40        28.76        41.37        52.45         65.71        87.69
EEC                                    3.52         10.77        14.96        24.23        31.09   .   36.62
EFTA                                   1.53         4.01          5.99         3.55         4.58          6.77
USA                                    1.46          3.54         6.00         5.86          7.73        10.28
LDC's                                  2.53          7.23        10.31        12.39        15.26         22.19
(in America)                          (0.95)        (2.98)       (3.6))       (4.'5)       (4.16)        (5.64)
Others                                  1.36         3.21         4.11         6.42          7.05        11.83
7           Machinery and transport equipment    12.32            32.60        43.51        53.14         65.32        91.05
EEC                                    1.03          8.89        14.39        21.51        24.79         38.82
EFTA                                   1.10          4.00         6.05         4.45          5.51         8.91
USA                                    0.80          2.23         2.71         3.40          3.75         4.24
LDC's                                  8.99         14.80        17.62        20.69        27.51         33.41
(in America)                          (7.77)      (10.36)       (12.42)       (9.16)      (10.59)       (11.97)
Others                                 0.40          2.68         2.74         3.09          3.76         5.67
8,9         Other manufactured goods and
various items, n.i.e.                   7.71        22.58        31.63        44.11        46.09         59.24
EEC                                    1.40          3.89         6.45        12.73         15.56        23.27
EFTA                                   0.71          2.12         2.83         2.16         2.75          3.83
USA                                    2.43          9.60        13.54        19.04         17.05        18.13
LDC's                                  2.73          5.41         6.76         8.08         8.10         10.11
(in America)                          (2.34)        (4.25)       (5.37)       (6.31)       (6.18)        (7.18)
Others                                 0.44          1.56         2.05         2.10          2.63         3.90
0-9         Total Exports                            75.21       167.09       205.66        245.25       302.69       407.97
EEC                                   25.16         60.32        76.37       110.87       144.73        193.49
EFTA                                  15.01         29.99        35.31        20.44        25.01         33.36
USA                                    8.81         23.57        31.52        40.01        41.88         47.86
LDC's                                  18.58        37.66        45.26        53.05        66.82         95.31
(in America)                         (13.05)       (21.97)      (25.35)      (24.17)      (26.73)       (34.52)
Others                                  7.65        15.55        17.20        20.88         24.25        37.95
Source:  Ministerio de Hacienda, Direcci6n General de Aduanas, Informe mensual sobre el comercio exterior (annual summaries)
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



ANNEX 2.1
SPAIN                                                     Table 10
INDUSTRIAL RDflE PROJECT
DIRECTION OF TRADE - IMPORTS BY MARXETS OF ORIGIN
(in billion of pesetas)
SITC                                               1966         1970         1971         1972         1973         1974
0,1,4      Food, beverages, tobacco                36.72        40.65        47.97        56.79        86.67       108.48
EEC                                  5.27         5.42         7.28        11.35        14.26        20.44
EFTA                                 3.66         2.83         4.50         2.47         4.34         3.23
USA                                 10.75         4.73         5.51         9.02        19.89        28.23
LDC's                               15.43        25.75        27.84        27.44        41.61        50.25
(in America)                       (12.94)      (21.46)      (22.88)      (21.29)      (32.96)      (40.23)
Others                               1.61         1.92         2.84         6.51         6.57         6.33
2          Raw materials                           33.54        56.71        60.32        75.50        84.91       136.11
EEC                                  4.58         6.44         6.37        14.04        16.30        23.83
EFTA                                 4.49         7.33         8.90         6.69         6.40        11.84
USA                                  7.43        17.47        17.42        18.08        21.27        36.97
LDC's                              11.79        18.08        20.89        27.41        29.11        4j.75
(in America)                        (2.97)       (5.48)       (5.70)       (8.63)       (6.83)      (14.63)
Others                               5.25         7.39         6.74         9.28        11.83        17.72
3          Petroleum, petroleum products           20.68        43.92        56.82        62.89        72.81       224.86
EEC                                  1.53         2.20         2.71         3.69         3.64         9.91
EFTA                                 0.29         0.40         0.46         0.16         0.15         0.17
USA                                  1.41         5.27         4.87         4.11         3.39         7.16
LDC's                               17.06        35.46        47.29        52.71        63.09       201.71
(in America)                        (2.68)       (2.17)       (2.20)       (1.99)       (2.14)       (6.10)
Others                               0.39         0.59         1.49         2.22         2.54         5.91
5          Chemical products                       18.77        34.99        36.81        47.81        60.60        89.58
EEC                                 11.20        19.10        19.71        30.38        41.59        62.00
EFTA                                 3.66         6.11         6.93         3.96         'p.56        5.98
USA                                  2.68         6.43         6.28         8.00         8.91        13.36
LDC's                                0.64         1.67         2.05         2.42         2.56         3.88
(in America)                        (0.27)       (0.61)       (1.03)       (1.22)       (1.01)       (1.76)
Others                               0.59         1.68         1.84         3.05         2.98         4.36
6          Primary manufactured goods              35.45        53.09        41.82        52.28        69.96       100.84
EEC                                 19.53        21.56        21.12        34.49        44.61        59.75
EFTA                                 7.76        10.66        10.43         5.92         8.20        12.44
USA                                  2.19         5.71         2.97         3.31         4.24         8.39
I'mC's                               2.48         4.67         2.75         3.42         5.62         9.35
(in America)                        (1.09)       (1.86)       (1.33)       (1.25)       (2.44)       (2.70)
Others                               3.49        10.49         4.55         5.14         7.29        10.91
7          Machinery and Transport equipment    60.26           85.52        84.61       115.97       153.11       185.38
EEC                                 34.49        45.77        49.07        75.94       100.76       119.15
EFTA                                13.67        16.00        17.22         9.77        13.86        16.03
USA                                 10.86        21.25        14.85        24.18        29.65        38.81
LDC's                                0.16         0.21         0.30         0.60         0.83         1.42
(in America)                        (0.04)       (0.09)       (0.18)       (0.16)       (0.24)       (0.48)
Others                               1.08         2.29         3.17         5.48         8.01         9.97
8,9        Other manufactured goods and
various items, n.i.e.               10.02        17.42        19.57        26.62        34.53        43.43
EEC                                  4.11         6.85         7.84.       15.14        19.81        24.47
EFTA                                 3.69         4.50         6.45         4.40         5.42         6.88
USA                                  1.21         1.88         2.10         2.64         3.19         4.44
LDC's                                0.39         0.64         0.86         1.20         1.96         2.56
(in America)                        (0.16)       (0.18)       (0.19)       (0.35)       (0.46)       (0.47)
Others                               0.62         3.55         2.32         3.24         4.15         5.08
0-9        Total Imports                          215.44       332.30       347.92       437.86       562.60       888.68
EEC                                 80.71       107.34       114.10       185.03       240.97       319.55
EFTA                                37.22        47.83        54.89        33.37        42.93        56.57
USA                                 36.53        62.74        54.00        69.34        90.54       137.36
LDC's                               47.95        86.48       101.98       115.20       144.78       314.92
(in America)                       (20.15)      (31.85)      (31.51)      (34.89)      (46.08)      (66.37)
Others                              13.03        27.91        22.95        34.92        43.38        60.28
Source: Ministerio de Hacienda, Direccion General de Aduanas, Informe mensual sobre el comercio exterior (annual sammaries)
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
BALANCE OF TECHNOLOGICAL PAYMENTS
(in millions of US$)
RECEIPTS                              PAYMENTS                                    BATANICE
Royalties,  Know-how                  Royalties,   Know-how                      Roy'lties,   Know-hov-
Licenses  (Tech.Asst)  Total          Licenses   (Tech.Asst)   Total             Licenses   (Tech.Asst)        Total
1960          9.35        2.05       11.140          19.13         2.20        21.33            -9-78          -0.15         -9.93
1961          2.91        0.47        3.38           21.75         4.58        26.33           -18.84          -4.11        -22.95
1962          5.07        0.04        5.11           23.39         5.08        28.47           -18.32          -5.04        -23.36
1963         11.11        0.12       11.23           31.32        11.28        42.60           -20.21         -11.16        -31-37
1964          6.08        0.54        6.62           34.16        21.99        56.15           -28.08        -21.45         -49.53
1965           4.51       0.71        5.22           44.71        35.17        79.88           -40.20         -34.46        -74.66
1966          3.53        3.09        6.62           52.68        44.26        96.94           -49.15         -41.17        -90.32
1967          3.31        4.60        7.91           61.00        48.94       109.94           -57.69        -44.314       -102.03
1968          3.60        7.80       11.40           58.75        50.39       109.14           -55.15         -42.59        -97.74
1969          3.07        6.11        9.18           76.38        56.60       132.98           -73.31         -50.49       -123.80
1970          3.65       12.34       15.99           81.61        52.16       133.77           -77.96         -39.82       -117.78
1971          4.05       12.80       16.85           86.56        68.37       154.93           -82.51         -55.57       -138.08
1972          4.26       16.41       20.67          112.25        86.40       198.65          -107.99         -69.99       -177-98
1973          5.60       23.31       28.91          152.57       109.39       261.96          -146.97         -86.08       -233.05
1974          7.44       28.75       36.19          182.55       133.11       315.66          -175.11       -104.36        -279.47
Source: M1.inisterio de Comercio, Balanza de Pagos de Espafia 1974, Madrid 1975
I..
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INIWJSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
TRENDS IN SPAIN'S DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN TECHNOLOGY
Total Payments
for Foreign       In % Of Manufacturing                                              In % of Total
Technology                 GDP                 In % of Indus-    In % of Imports    Payments on
(Ptas.million)     Old Series  New Series       rial vxports/i      to IndLatryUL     Oarrent Account
1961          1,580                *           *                17.6                4.8                 2.1
1965          4,793              1.46           *               26.1               14.6                 2.4
1970           9,364              1.67        1.*44             11.4                 4.8                2.4
1971         10,845              1.76         1.50               9.4                5.7                 2.6
1972         12,808              1.74         1.45               8.6                5.3                 2.5
1973         15,201                           1.40               8.7                5.0                 2.2
1974         18,151                .          1.38               7.7                4.3                 1.8
Lt Excluding petroleum prodacts
Sources: Contabilidad Nacional de Espafla and Hanisterio de Comercio
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



A2 iEX  . .
Table 13a
INIJSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
SPAIN'S EXENDITURE ON R&D
A.   Total R L D Excenditure (Current and Capital Expenditure)
Million             Million                          In Percent of-
Current             Ptas.of             Index        GNP at Current
Ptas.                1970           (1970=100)      Market Prices
1967               3,838               4,386                74              0.21
1969               4,951               5,223                88              0.22
1970               5,946               5,946               100              0.23
1971               8,540               7,918               133              0.29
1972              10,343               8,862               149              0.30
1973              13,146              10,101               170              0.31
1974              16,178              10,922               184              0.32
3.   R & D Expenditure by Sector of Performance (million pesetas)
Govern-
nent              Higher
Research           Educa-           Er.ter-
Total      %      Centers    %        tion      %     prises/1   %
1967    3,838   (100.0)   2,027   (52.8)        111    (2.9)   1,700   (44.3)
1969    4,951   (100.0)   2,616   (52.8)        168    (3.4)   2,167   (43.3)
1970    5,946   (100.0)   3,085   (51.9)        205    (3.4)   2,656   (44.7)
1971    8,540   (100.0)   3,749   (43.9)        854   (10.0)   3,937   (46.1)
1972   10,343   (100.0)   4,642   (44.9)        739    (7.1)   4,962   (L.BCo)
1973   13,146   (100.0)   5,800   (44.1)   1,000    (7.6)   6,346   (48.3)
1974   16,178   (100.0)   6,850   (42-3)   1,150    (7-1)   8,178   (50.6)
C.   Intra- and Extranural Expenditure on R & D (million pesetas)
Intra-                  Extra-
mural                   mural
Expen-                   Dxen-
Total                     diture         %         diture
1967      3,838        (100.0)       3,516        (91.6)       322       (8.4)
1969      4,951        (100.0)       4,621        (93.3)       330       (6.7)
1970      5,946        (100.0)       5,548        (93.3)       398       (6-7)
1971      8,540        (100.0)       8,068        (94.5)       472       (5.5)
1972     10,343        (100.0)       9,816        (94.9)       528       (5.1)
1973     13,146        (100.0)      12,500        (95-1)       646       (4-9)
1974     16,178        (100.0)      15,400        (95.2)       778       (4.8)
/1 Including research associations



ANNEX 2.1
Table 1 3b
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
SPAIN 'S EXPELDITURE ON R.D
D.  Intramural ExDenditure on R & D by Subject Area (million pesetas)
Engineering Agriculture
and          and
Total        of which in:    Technology    Livestock       Others
1967       3,516                             1 ,325         209         1,982
1969       4,621                             2,910          220         1,491
1970       5,548                             3,455          272         1,821
1971       8,068                             4,814          483         2,771
1972       9,816                             5,631          782         3,403
1973      12,500                             7,040          920         4,540
1974      15,200                             8,700        1,200         5,500
Sources:  Instituto 11acional de Estadistica,
Estadistica sobre los actividades en investigaci6n
cientifica y desarrollo tecnolo6gico (various .years);
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas,
Patronato "Juan de la Cierva"; and mission estimates.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL R,D EXPENDITtTRES (RTRA AND EXTRAMIRAL EXPENnTTURES3
(in million pesetas)
of which:                        of which:
1967             1969             1970             1971              1972            INI 2/          1973             INI             1974
Total Manufacturing             1,561   100%    1.913   100%    2.372   100%    3,516   100%    4,395   100%            (1.523)       5625   1007       (1.300)        7260   100%
of which:
Food Industry                    48    3.1        57    3.0        90    3.8         48    1.3        59    1.3          (19)          40    0.7           (8)          60    0.8
Textile Industry 1/              18    1.1        17    0.9         18    0.8        45    1.3        57    1.1            -           40    0.7            -           50    0.7
Chemical Industry               490   31.4       647   33.8       856   36.1    1,291   36.7    1,595   36.3            (195)      2,010   35.7           (163)     2,650   36.5
Basic Metal Industry             81    5.2       200   10.5       214    9.0        217    6.2       264    6.0         (207)         280    5.0          (121)        350    4.8
Metal Transformation            762   48.8 )                                                                            (122)                              (71)
913   47.7    1,087   45.8    1,817   51.7    2,299   52.3                        3,145   55.9                     4,000   55.1
Transport Equipment              93    6.0 )                                                                            (980)                             (846)
Other Industries                 69    4.4        79    4.1       107    4.5         98    2.8       131    3.0            -          110    2.0             -         150    2.1
I/ Including apparel and shoes.
2/ Excluding Centro de Estudios Tecnicos de Materiales Especiales - CETHE. 
Sources:  Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientfficas, Patronato "Juan de la Cierva", Inatituto Nacional de Industria (INI),
Memoria 1972, 1973, Instituto Nacional de Estadfstica, Eatadistica sobre las actividades en investigacion cientffica y desarrollo
tecnol(;gico (various years), and mission estimates.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
PUBLIC INVESTMENTS IN R&D
DURING THE III PLAN (1972-75)
(in million of pesetas)
1972           1973            1974            1975         1972-75              7.
I.  Technological Development                              2 3             3275.131531                     3 421.7        12,202.5           82.9
1.1  Major Projects                                        317.7           340.0           360.0           380.5         1,397.8            9.5
of which:
JEN Nuclear Reactor                                   228.2           200.0           180.0           164.8           773.0
Oceanographic Plan                                     89.1           140.0           180.0           215.7           624,8
1.2  Defense Research                                       158.0          525.1           613.2           710.8         2,007.1            13.6
of which:
Participation in European Space Program               122.0           290.0           355.0           433.0         1,200.0
STOL aircraft                                            -            100.0           100.0           101.8           301.8
Other Defense Research                                 36.0           135.1           158.2           176.0           505.3
1.3  Agricultural Research                                 376.7           443.0           465.0           482.9         1,767.6            12.0
1.4  Industrial Research                                   948.0         1,o9/.0         1,Jo.2          1,305.6         4X800.8           32.6
of which:
Joint Research Plan Projects                          112.3           410.0           525.0           634.9         1,682.2
"Mercure Project" of the Air Ministry                 475.6           383.6             -               -             859.2
Junta de Energia Nuclear (JEN)                         81.6            70.0            65.0            60.0           276.6
INTA                                                  100.0            20.0            20.0            20.0           160.0
Other Projects                                        178.5           513.4           540.2           590.7         1,822.8
1.5  Environmental Protection                               50.5            98.0           118.0           137.3           403.8             2.8
1.6  Research in Public Works                                74.9           84.0            93.5           103.0           355.4             2.4
1.7  Training of Research Personnel                        401.4           329.0           259.5           180.1         1,170.0             8.0
1.8  Other Areas                                             25.8           59.0            93.7           121.5           300.0            2.0
II.      Basic and University Sponsored Research                735.2          391.2           433.3           472.0         2,031 7            13.8
III.      Research Equipment                                      76.0           110.2           135.1           164.5           485.8            3.3
TOTAL  I, II, III                                             3,163.8         3,776.5        3,721.5         4,058.2         14,720.0          100.0
SOURCE:  III Plan de Desarrollo Econ.omico y Social,Investigacio'n Cientffica y Desarrollo Tecnologico, and Ministerio de Industria
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976
{X
I-.



AULEX 2.1
Table 16
SPAI1i
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
PROPOSED PUBLIC INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH
iihD1D2EVELOPMN  IT (ICL. BA3I(: IN- ATIOL )
DURl,G THE IV DEVELOPMNT PLAN (1976 - 79)
02 Sector/Prograin                      Amount in million pesetas
iesearch and Development
01  Gener ..l ictivities                        2,095                             8.7
09  Energy                                      1,775                             7 4
03  Environment                                   289                             1,2
04  Natural   siescurces                       2,?h8                             9.3
05  Human aresources                              549                             2 3
06  Napterials and Technologies                 1 ,9940                          8.0
07  Research Infrastructure                    5,649                            2304
08  Defense                                    3,565                            1)4.8
09  Health                                        443                            1o8
1C  Territory and Oceans                          605                            205
11  Space                                      4, 988                           20,6
Subtotl-al                                        24,146                           10000
Fasic Information
12  Geographic Information                      1 ,500
13  Statistics                                 2 ,200
14  Data Processing                               434
Total                                             28,280
Fir.anc ing:
-budget                              26,280
External Sources                      2,000
Source:  TV Plan I acional de  Desarrollo 1976-79 ( 1. draft, Ikovemter 1975)
Irdustrinl ProJects Depnrtment
M-rch 1976



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL R06E PROJECr
TOTAL EXPENDITURES IN R6D IN SELECTED COUNTRIES
MAJOR INDICATORS
Gross National      Expend. in R & D        Per Capita      No. of ScLen-         Total M/bpowor   Total N Dpower  papsodit-re iC              Cu-r-t Eapeodit-0e in R & D
Population       GNP  per      Expeanditure in     a. percentge of         Eapenditure    ti.te & Rngin-          in R & D per    R & D (in 7) by  S11tor of                      by Type of Activity
Countrv                Year         Mid-ytea         Capita           R & D            CNP - Hnrket Prices   In R & D          Pers in R & D          10,000 pop.             Perfornc -                                  (in 7.)
(in thousands)      (US)         (USS *ill.)   -          (ratio)                           per 10,000 pop           (ratio)         B..ineoa Cov't.  H.Edic.  P.N.P.         0o1ic     Applied      Daweloprent
3,
Spain                  1970          33,645           1,020             77.9 -                0.2                  2.3               2                     5            42.7      54.0    3.3         -          19.3       35.9           44.9
Acotria                1970           7,390           2,010             77.6                  0.6                 10                 4                    13            62.0       7.6   29.8        0.5          -          -              -
.elgi,a                1971           9,710           2,960            363.7                  1.2                 38                 7                    25            56.7      13.1   29.7        0.5         32.7       41.7           25.6
C.nada                 1971          21,600          4,140           1,145.4                  1.2                 47                10                    24            37.6      35.2   27.3         -          21.4       38.1           40.6
Denmark                1970           4,921          3,190             143.2                  0.9                 29                 8                    22            47.7      24.6   22.7        5.0         22.0       27.0           51.0
Vinl-nd                1971           4.680           2,550             90.9                  0.8                 20                 9                    19            59.9      19.3   18.7        2.1         20.1       33.4           46.5
France                 1971          51,250          3.360           2,920.4                  1.8                 57                11                    39            56.0      28.1   14.8        1.1         19.0       32.0           49.0
Germany, F.R. of       1971          61,290           3,210          4,499.1                   2.1                73                14                    46            67.4      10.4   19.1        3.1         30.7        -              -
Greece                 1971           8,975           1,250             17.9                  0.2                  2                 1                     3            25.9      56.9   15.0        2.2         23.1       45.4           31.5
Iceland                1971             206           2,480              2.7                  0.5                 14                 6                    11             1.1      78.9   18.6        1.3         20.5       39.5           40.0
Irel-nd                1971           2,970          1,510              32.8                  0.7                 11                 6                    14            40.8      44.7   13.8        0.7         10.0       40.5           49.4
Italy                  1971          54,078          1,860             929.0                  0.9                 17                 5                    13            60.8      21.7   17.5         -          22.1       39.9           37.9
Japan                  1971         104.660           2,130          4,041.0                   1.6                39                19                    41            66.5      13.5   18.6        1.4         37.3       19.1           43.6
Notherlands            1971          13.190           2,620            783.8                   2.0                59                 a                    41            60.3      17.6   20.4        1.7           > 44.6 C                55.4
Norvay                 1970           3.879           2,860            111.6                   1.1                29                 9                    23            49.8      20.3   29.4        0.5         23.2       31.2           45.6
PortuRal               1971           9,716             730             23.9                  0.3                  3                 2                     7            27.6      49.8   18.8        3.8                     -              -
Sveden                 1971           8,110          4,240             538.3                  1.6                 66                12                    39            64.7      12.8   23.0        0.1         16.7       19.8           63.5
S,itaerlsad            1971           6,320           3.640            473.8                   1.9                75                22                     -            80.4       6.3   13.3         _-                     -              -
United Kingdom         1970          55,730           2,270          2,596.5                   2.3                47                 _                     _            64.5      24.3    8.4        2.8          7.5       23.1           60.8
USA                    1971         207,050          5.160          27,527.6                   2.6               133                26                     -            66.5      15.9   13.8        3.9         14.7       22.5           62.8
Hexato                 1971          52,422             700             82.7                  0.2                  1.6                -                    -              -         -      -          -           -          -               -
Veneaueln              1970          10,399             980             21.7                  0.2                  2.1
I.rael                 1970           2,910          1,960              69.7                   1.1                24
T.rkey                 1968          33,550             310             41.5                   0.3                 1.2                -                    -              -        -       -          -           -          -               -
Note.:   1/  The exchoge rates need to conv,rt eaediture data in 1970 end 1971 vare obtained from the Rcononic and Statietico Departsent of OECD end they repreocnt annual averages based oar trimstril avera..ge..
A list of the rete u"ad appears In the aien sourcs given belos,
2/ Th. four sector. are a) Business Enterprise (Business), b) General Geveremant (Gov't.), c) Higher Education (H. Educ.), and d) Private Non-Profit Institutes (P.N.P.)  as defined by OECD.
T/  The OECD e.hapge rate uced for Spain wes US5  1 - 69.76 Pea.tas
Surce:      OCD, Survey of the Resources Devoted to I & D by OECD Member Count.1o., 1971 (DAS/SPR 74.46)
-  Last three colun  (current expenditures by type) a. wll PC R 6 D dat on the lst four countries (Hexico, Venasula-, Israel and Turkey) fri  UNESCO Btati.tiacl Yearbook, 1973, Table 7.2
Population  nd GNP per Capita figures fro the 1972 sd 1973 World Bank Atlas.
$#.L  . A y eoMIy dinned -o.&d.I I
,__TEAf9  -n-olod Or di-reo,v ofr            .4..
Industrial Projects Depaetrent                                                                                                                                                                              fed.      eru.rr,on, wilboel eey ,po ih: pe.,"c .._
March 1976
, - ,,,i wJ ,^ A., CaNily dirood W_nh lb.
-- .,r skN iO. kocabohe brA 06:, :   ci8fiz
rr..:i..1 ai nrrr, iew. h
01roor,rra  ifserrnd .. Sytkdli  ,or ,.c ..wJi
kr.oi.k.t.e hirncled ,,ol.d. Iho r,rlr.obeo.jrr ol roe
o,   0i .l  , errrnirrls. .Ik  .r    .   . r.     .. vs o,r    Or neIr.,.
derrp zlnrprrorrhs nl .4 rrr,. .n. ;rI. ,,,o



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
SELECTED COUNTRIES' EXPENDITURES TN R&D BY SECTOR
Composition of Total R&D Expenditures By Industry, 1970-71
(Percentages)
F.R. OF
Sectors                        USA       UK       GERMANY    FRANCE       ITALY     JAAN       KOREA      CANADA     GREECE      IRELAND      PORTUGAL      SPAIN
Manufacturing                  96.3   93.9         96.0        91.4       89.0      92.0       82.6        81.4       49.5        78.6          56.1        88.8
Machinery                     9.7   10.7          9.1         8.3        3.5      10.7        2.1         7.8        0.9          2.8           1.6        6.5
Transport Equipment           8.3    7.3         14.8         8.5       25.3      11.1        3.1         2.9         0.4        4.0            2.3       12.1
Electrical Machinery         24.2   23.4         28.1        24.6       22.7      26.9        1.5        26.9         9.7        8.8           4.9        20.8
Chemicals(incl.Pharmaceut.) 10.1   12.2          28.2        13.5       24.2      21.9       34.6        11.1       15.3        10.2          19.2        28.7
Petrol Products               3.4    1.8          0.5         3.7        0.8       1.1        1.4         4.0         1.5        -             -           4.4
Air Craft, Missiles          29.0   25.1          7.0        23.0        -         -          -           8.0         -           -             -          2.4
Basic Metals                  1.5    2.7          4.6         2.3        3.9       7.0        3.0         1.6         2.3        -             2.0         1.4
Metal Products                1.0    1.2          0.4         0.9        -         1.2        -           1.3         3.4        4.5           7.2         3.9
Foods                         1.1    3.0          0.4         1.3        0.9       3.4       14.9         2.8         5.4       21.1           7.3         3.9
Miscellaneous                 8.0    6.5          2.9         5.3        7.7       8.7       22.0        15.0       10.6        27.1          11.6         4.7
Non-manufacturing (incl.
Agriculture & Mining)         3.7    6.1          4.0         8.6       11.0       8.0       17.4        18.6        50.5       21.4          43.9        11.2
TOTAL INDUSTRY                100.0  100.0        100.0       100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0
Source:   KOREA - Handbook of Science and Technology, 1973.
- For Canada, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain data was derived from the Survey of the Resources Devoted to R & D. DSTI/SPR/75.5,
published by OECD, and regrouped.(this data was only for the Business Enterprise Sector)
Industrial Projects Department                                                                                                                                       R
March 1976                                                                                                                                                           m. 



ANNEX 2.1
SPhlTV                  Table 19
INDUSTRIAL RDcE PROJECT
EXPENDITURES AhD PERSONiNEL
IN R&D IN THE BUSIXESS ENTERPRISE SECTOR, 1971
Total          Total            Full-time
Intramural     Full-time        Scientists &
Expenditures   Personnel        Engineers
in R&D         working on       working on
R&D (units)      MAD (units)
Agriculture                                 0.5            37                 9
Mining                                                     60        
Electrical machinery                        5.9           7                  7
Electronic equipment & parts               15.0           619               194
Sub-total                            20.8         1,066               268
Chemicals                                  13.3           696               207
Pharmaceuticals                            15.4           859               339
Petroleum Refining                          4.4           315                45
Sub-total                            33.0         1,870              591
Aircrafts - sub-total                       2.4           159                34
Motor Vehicles                              5.6           323                34
Ships                                       5.9           500                29
Other transport                             o.6            17                 7
Sub-total                            12.2           840                69
Ferrous metals                              1.4            60                18
Non-ferrous metals                          0.9            23                 5
Fabricated metal products                   1.5            88                17
Sub-total                             3.9           171                40
Instruments                                 o.6            23                 2
Machinery                                   5.9           309                56
Sub-total                             6.5           332                58
Foods, Beverages & tobacco                  3.7           105                47
Textiles, footwear & leather                0.7            69                 8
Rubber & plastic products                   1.2            63                15
Sub-total                             5.6           238                69
Stone, clay & glass                         3.1           142                30
Paper & Printing                            1.2            32                11
.4ood, cork & furniture                     0.0             3
Other manufacturing                         0.1             5                 1
Sub-total                             4.4           182                41
TOTAL MA14UFACTURING                       88.8         4.858             1
Utilities                                    0.2
Construction                                 1.8          137                35
Transport & storage                         5.3           307                82
Communications                              0.9            96                25
Commercial & engin. services                1.5            45                25
Other                                       o.4            22                11
TCTAL SERVICES                             10.2           614               183
TOTAL INDUSTRY                            100.0         5,570.            1,370
Source: OECD, Survey of the Resources Devoted to R & D by OECD Member Countries, 1971
DSTI/SPR/75.5
Industria& Pro,iects Department
March 1976



ANNEX 3.1
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF R&D IN SPAIN
1.        Compared to other countries at about its stage of industrial develop-
ment, Spain does very little industrial research, development and engineering
(RD&E). Its industry is for the most part based on technology imported intact
from abroad, with little effort of digestion or adaptation.
2.        According to official statistics, Spanish allocations for all research
and development in 1972, the last year for which detailed statistics are avail-
able, totalled $160 million, or 0.3% of GNP. (See Annex 2.1 for estimates for
1974). Research and development spending at the enterprise level was $77 mil-
lion, or 43% of the net foreign exchange costs of foreign licenses and patents.
These figures are in the range typical of ocuntries at a much lower stage of
economic development. While they are merely indicators and should not be used
as the basis for definitive judgments, they do appear to indicate that Spain
is excessively dependent on undigested foreign technology.
3.        Of the national expenditure on industrial R&D in 1972, 56% was spent
by private industry, 35% by public sector industry (INI), and 3% in various
government laboratories (including defense).
4.        Public sector enterprises spent Ptas. 1,523 million on research in
1972. The R&D budget of the major civilian public sector industries, those of
the National Institute of Industry (INI), are shown in Table 1. It is high
by Spanish but not by international standards, and constituted about one-third
of the total R&D expenditures of Spain's public sector. Expenditures are
concentrated in automobiles (27%), and aircraft and transport (25%), with iron
and steel metallurgy (14%), refining and petrochemicals (12%), and shipbuilding
(12%) receiving lesser but still substantial amounts.
5.        In September 1973, a Bank mission made a brief review of industrial
research at the enterprise level in Spain and visited two dozen Spanish-held,
small and medium-sized firms known for their innovative activity, chiefly in
the electronics and machinery sectors. They found among these entrepreneurs
a high degree of awareness of the importance of international competitiveness
and of the contributions of technological innovations thereto.
6.        To a varying degree, the firms had already been forced to strive
for essential product improvements and new products, often developing a
remarkable capability for quick adjustments to changing market conditions.
Most of the electronics firms and many of the equipment producers employ
electronics and mechanical engineers of international quality. These en-
gineers had made it possible, in many cases, to initiate new product lines,



ANNEX 3.1
Page 2
frequently on the basis of prototypes copied from foreign samples. Subsequent
modifications of the product were often highly innovative. However, nearly
all these adjustments seem to have been in response to existing market op-
portunities rather than to fill future market possibilities. The concept
of a technical innovator/entrepreneur who identifies a "hole in the market",
invents a device to exploit it, and builds a company or a division of a larger
enterprise around this technological idea, does not appear to exist in Spain.
7.        These very innovative and able engineers constitute a substantial
technological potential which is not being exploited by Spanish firms, because
of conservatism and risk-aversion, both in the government and in the private
sector, even in industries with a reputation for innovation. In the words of
one mission member, "some of the Spanish product development engineers are
generally not allowed to do anything that is really new or imaginative."
8.        There are many manifestations to this conservatism.  Spanish entre-
preneurs and government officials in many cases are not aware of the high
quality of their own engineers, do not have faith that Spanish brands can be
competitive, and prefer to rely on "name brands" from foreign countries.
Spanish entrepreneurs often are very reluctant to take any risks, take high
incomes for themselves at the expense of reinvestment in the firm, and do not
involve their employees in the financial structure (and hence the motivational
structure) of the company.
9.        The production engineers, for their part, suffer from a fear of
failure and risk, and a possibly realistic conviction that any innovative
ideas they may have will not be accepted. An engineer with an idea rarely
if ever has had the opportunity to form his own company to try to exploit it.
Until very recently it would have been virtually impossible for such a man
to obtain Bank credit. Equally important, Spanish design engineers often
lack both management and production skills--as illustrated by a number of
firms whose products were excellently conceived and designed but which were
suffering badly from poor general and production management.
10.       Still, there exist Spanish firms both in the public and private sec-
tors, which are exporting novel products based on their own technology and are
also exporting the technology itself in the form of licenses. In the mecha-
nical machinery field, for example, the mission visited a manufacturer of
circular knitting machines with a relatively large export business. The suc-
cess of its products is due, to a large extent, to the availability of cleverly
designed mechanisms within their mechanical equipment and to the finding by
its founder of a "hole in the market" some 25 years ago in circular knitting
machinery. The continued success of the firm depends on its ability to manu-
facture and its mechanical expertise and to further develop its know-how in
international marketing. The mission also visited a shipyard of an INI (public
sector) firm which is exporting products and technology based on a toroidal
steering gear for ships, a major design innovation which substantially reduces
the number of parts needed. In the electronics field, a number of firms dis-
played not only first class design and up-to-date technology but also excellent
production management. Spanish skill at mechanism design was especially
noteworthy.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 3
11.       The major finding of these visits was that the existing acLivities
of research and development institutions in Spain were not well suited to
conceive the kind of research and development needed to maintain competitive-
ness in existing product lines and to develop new products which would fill
important future markets. The investigation concluded that a new technolo-
gical strategy was needed, with a time horizon extending to 10-15 years.
a.   The Climate in Spain for Industrial Research and Development
12.       There are a number of broad barriers to innovation:  (a) fragmenta-
tion of research work and the lack of financial and administrative indepen-
dence in most existing research institutions; (b) lack of readily available
technological, management, and marketing assistance; (c) poor communication
among professional groups and among firms in potentially complementary areas,
in part because of the difficulty of forming professional and business organi-
zations outside of established patterns; (d) lack of venture capital and
expansion capital, and the practice of the banking system of providing credit
only strictly against collateral; (e) limitations of entry of firms below a
certain size into certain sectors in which innovation by smaller firms is a
frequent pattern 1/; (f) high tariffs on imports of components and of laboratory
and testing equipment (even if there is no relevant domestic production to
protect).
13.       In many industries, such as electronics, small firms started "on
a shoestring" by innovators have often grown to great importance in other coun-
tries. In Spain, such an innovator must start with his own capital; he cannot
as a rule obtain a loan based on his future business prospects, or even on
the guarantee of future orders. (According to government regulation, an
electronics firms, for example, must start with Ptas. 250 million in initial
capital, a large sum). When he expands, he must often adjust his course of
action to satisfy the banks which supply him with capital and which might
influence the management of his firms and prevent it from undertaking promising
and innovating but risky investments. Potential purchasers of his products
will often instinctively turn to "name brand" foreign producers rather than
trust Spanish capabilities, of which they are likely to be unaware.
1/   While these limitations to entry are reasonable from the point of view
of the persistent fragmentation of many industries into too many produc-
tion lines, they put, on the other hand, a serious constraint on research
work that typically emerges from small enterprises and workshops in cer-
tain other fields, as is the case with innovations in the field of elec-
tronics. In still other fields, it may be possible to encourage innova-
tion in small-scale industry by means of research associations and other
forms of support.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 4
14.       In some cases, there are industrial problems which, although they
appear to be technological or financial, are in fact due to management. For
example, there seems in many cases, to be a lack of attention to questions of
job design, safety, plant layout, and materials and inventory handling and
control, especially in small and medium firms and in large job-shop producers.
Since most of the firms visited were at the time limited simply by inability
to produce enough to fill orders, process improvements (as opposed to product
development) would have produced a rapid tangible return. Conditions have
changed since then, but attention to production management would still be
useful.
15.       The trend of interest among students at graduate business programs
appears to be toward seeking employment in larger firms and multinational
firms, and away from smaller and family firms. The schools find a ready
interest in the marketing and financial aspects of management, as opposed to
the operating, production and technical aspects. There seems to be a parti-
cular gap in the development of skills, services, and personnel for middle
and smaller firms, and for dealing with problems of increased productivity
and efficiency.
16.       Finally, many Spanish entrepreneurs, particularly in certain small-
scale industries, are innovative by instinct, but are handicapped by their
small size and lack of personnel and facilities. Their engineers are pro-
duction engineers, not researchers or designers. They lack the personnel
and the expertise to undertake market studies. Their communications with
other firms and institutions are limited. As a consequence, such entrepre-
neurs may lose their present market shares over time, both domestically and
abroad, with undesirable effects on employment and regional development.
17.       It is necessary to remove existing institutional barriers to inno-
vation and to stimulate domestic investment of venture capital, both in the
innovative process itself (that is, research and development activities), and
in the commercial application of the fruits of innovation. For example, the
conditions required for establishment of new firms should be carefully
reviewed so as to achieve a proper balance between the need to prevent ex-
cessive sectoral fragmentation and the danger of constraints on innovation.
A review is needed of tariff schedules applicable to components and testing
equipment which, although not manufactured in Spain, are needed for the
manufacture and testing of Spanish machines and electronic equipment. These
tariffs cannot protect Spanish industry, but can inhibit it from improving
the quality of its products and from developing new ones. There are other
constraints in the rules concerning professional organizations and the fiscal
treatment and administration of Government-owned industrial laboratories.
18.       There is a further need to stimulate investment of venture capital
through incentives to encourage investment of domestic capital in risky
ventures that may offer long-term advantages to Spanish technology. The



ANNEX 3.1
Page 5
report of the Bank Industrial Mission (Growth and Change in Spanish Industry,
November 16, 1973, Volume I, pp. 219-221) had made a number of suggestions for
relaxation of control and interventions in the financial and capital markets.
The adoption of these suggestions would help free these markets and make them
more responsive to competitive rewards and costs. The French venture capital
institution Sofinnova (Societe pour la Financiation de l'Innovation) has served
as an interesting model and partner for the establishment of a similar Spanish
institution.
19.       Finally, programs of management education in Spanish universities and
polytechnics should be reviewed and opportunities sought in these and other
institutions to create educational programs which will teach management skills
of particular interest to small and medium firms.
B.   Public Sector Industries
20.       Enterprises of the INI Group appear to be at the forefront of many
fields of Spanish industrial research, with numerous cases of essential product
improvements and of new product developments, notably in transport equipment,
machinery, and weapons. The wide range of INI activities, INI's designation
to pioneer into new industrial ventures, and INI's comparatively great freedom
to carry on its programs, combined to create relatively beneficial conditions
for the allocation of research funds and the practical application of research
and development works. Even so, INI is not a research-oriented institution by
international standards.
Table 1
R&D Expenditures in INI Manufacturing Enterprises, 1972 1/
Total R&D
No. of        Spending      R&D Spending
Sector                              Enterprises   (Ptas. M.)    in % of Sales
Automobiles                               3             416             0.85
Aircraft and transport                    2             385             1.35
Iron and Steel                            3             207             0.50
Refining and petrochemicals               5             190             0.40
Shipbuilding                             4              179             0.45
Mechanical Engineering                    7             121
Food                                      3              19             0.60
Chemicals                                 2               6             0.15
29           1,523
1/ Excluding Centro de Estudios Tecnicos de Materiales Especiales - CETME.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 6
C.   National Fund for the Development of Scientific Research
21.       The chief instrument of Government support to research and develop-
ment in industry at the enterprise level is the Advisory Commission on Scienti-
fic and Technological Research (CAICYT) of the office of the Presidency. Ini-
tially established (in 1958) to advise the Government on science and techno-
logy policy, CAICYT has since 1965 actively promoted research and development
activities through the allocation of funds of the National Fund for the Deve-
lopment of Scientific Research to public sector research centers, industrial
research associations, and since 1968 also directly to enterprises.
22.       The support of research and development projects of enterprises,
carried out in the framework of joint plans between Government and enterprise,
has actually become the main activity of CAICYT in recent years. Since the
initiation of this scheme in 1968, CAICYT has approved a total of 209 indivi-
dual projects, costing on average Ptas. 23.4 million each. Of the total
research and development projects approved, about 75 percent were defined as
industrial projects. Together with the industry contribution, these projects
constitute about 10% of all Spanish industrial research and development for
the period.
23.       Joint research plans have the objective of supporting specific
research program of an enterprise (or group of enterprises) with a view to
developing new processes and products. The enterprise (or group of enter-
prises) has to submit to CAICYT a detailed project proposal, including esti-
mates of the cost and time needed to conduct the relevant research and deve-
lopment work, and an assessment of the project's expected economic benefits
and risks of failure. After approval of the project proposal, the Government,
through CAICYT, concludes a contract with the enterprise (or group of enter-
prises), specifying the financial support of the Government and the Govern-
ment's rights with respect to supervision, repayment, and, in some cases,
transfer for the eventually accruing patent rights. It should be mentioned
that the scheme of the joint research plans does not attempt to actively
promote specific new industries nor does it concentrate in high priority
fields.
24.       The financial participation of the Government in a "joint research
plan" is in the form of an interest-free loan, covering up to 50 percent of
total project costs. The beneficiary of the loan, on the other hand, has to
deposit the full amount of its financing share in the project with a bank
prior to the execution of the "joint research plan". The Government loan is
repayable in case of commercial success of the new product or process. The
repayment schedule is different in each individual contract, but, in general,
is related to the subsequent sales volume of the new product or to the
earnings derived from the concession of licenses. The loan may not be
repayable in case of failure to develop commercially viable new products.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 7
25.       The enterprise is responsible for the execution of the specified
research program. It is free to conduct related works at its own facilities
or to sub-contract parts of the research and development work to other enter-
prises and research institutions. The enterprise (or group of enterprises)
participating in a "joint research program" has, in general, full property
rights over the newly developed technologies. Exceptions have been estab-
lished, however, for technologies that are significant for national defense
purposes. Contracts of "joint research programs" may in certain cases also
contain a clause requiring a previous authorization from the Government if
a license is to be sold abroad.
26.       Applications for joint research plans have in general lagged behind
the willingness of CAICYT to fund projects. Informal conversations with
private industry indicate that CAICYT is perceived as well-intentioned but
slow and cumbersome in its operations and not always persuasive in the ra-
tioonale for its decisions. In addition to the problems described above,
CAICYT considers applications only once a year, forcing industry into an un-
natural timetable, and does not announce its awards until almost a year later,
a delay that some members of private industry regard as unduly long. These
procedural problems were cited by a number of industries as reasons for their
not applying to CAICYT for funds. Those industries that had entered into
joint research plan acknowledge the difficulties, but indicated that they had
learned to live with them--in some cases by starting the project with their
own funds and using CAICYT funds retroactively. CAICTYT procedures might be
improved by providing for more frequent panels and by involving more techno-
logists from private industry and from outside Spain in the review process.
The experience of the CAICTYT is the only precedent in Spain for direct
government encouragement to industrial research at the enterprise level in
the private sector.
D.   Research Associations
27.       Four percent of the resources of CAICYT are devoted to support of
research associations, of which there were 17 in 1972. The associations are
non-profit organizations created by enterprises and other institutions of a
given sector to carry out cooperative research and to act as sectoral docu-
mentation and training centers. Research associations are one of the few
viable mechanisms for providing external management and technological help to
industries which are broken up into many individual firms, each of which
would by itself be too small to mount a research, development and engineering
effort. The Research Association for the Machine Tool Industry, for example,
has laboratory facilities at the Barcelona Polytechnic University, and helps
with trouble-shooting, economic surveys, quality control, and other forms of
assistance. It does not do innovative or proprietary research.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 8
Table 1
Industrial Research Associations
Associations           Number of Partici-  Percent of Firms  Percent of Capital
(year of Establ.)         pating Firms        of the Sectors        Representing
1. Leathers and con-
nected indus-
tries (1962)                 26                 15                   80
2.  Apparel (1962)              385                 --                    __
3. Fruit and vege-
table canning
(1963)                      286                40                  90-95
4.  Lucerne (1963)
5. Wood and cork
(1963)                      517                  1.3                 __
6. Insurers'
(1963)                       91                  9.7                 90
7. Shipbuilding
(1963)                       23                --                    __
8. Cotton Tex-
tiles (1963)                565                 58                   70
9.  Paper (1963)                238                 20                    85
10. Metallurgy,
Navarra (1964)              118                 57                    76
11. Labor produc-
tivity (1955)                --                --                     -
12. Power, ASINEL
(1955)                      113                85                    90
13. Sugar beets
(1966)                       --                --                    --
14. Metallurgy,
Northwest
(1967)                       52              15-20                   --
15. Machine tools
(1968)                       92                 25                   25
16. Printing
industry
(1968)                       66                --                    --
17. Transport
(1970)                       14                --                    __
Source: Presidencia del Gobierno, Comision Asesora de Investigacion
Cientifica y Tecnica, Asociaciones de Investigacion, Memoria
1972, Madrid 1973.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 9
28.       As things now stand, the overall impact of the research associations
on Spanish industrial technology is very small. Total expenditures of the In-
dustrial Research Associations in 1972 were only Ptas. 42 million ($0.65 mil -
lion). The research staff comprised 116 persons. In many cases, associations
could be making a larger contribution to the industries they serve if they had
more staff and equipment. There are specific needs for more effective univer-
sity based research associations in apparel and shoe-making.
E.   Universities and Institutes of Higher Education
29.       Research at universities and other institutes of higher education is
still very limited in its scope and volume. In 1972, the share of university
research in total Spanish spending on R&D was only 7 percent. University
laboratories dedicate about two-thirds of their activities to basic research,
predominantly to natural science and medicine, and are to date by and large
insignificant to industry. Client-centered applied research at universities
and polytechnics does make a useful contribution in a number of fields, but
is still very limited in its scope. There are a number of industries, such
as machine tools and shoe-making, that would indeed benefit from the estab-
lishment of specialized university-based research institutes; a more thorough
survey might reveal several more which would be useful. As in many aspects
of government-supported research in Spain, it is often much easier to get
funds for buildings and equipment than for personnel and running expenses.
30.       The Barcelona Polytechnic is exceptional, in that its research cen-
ters have succeeded in establishing collaboration with industry by accepting
contracts to solve specific problems of industrial technology. Covering a
relatively wide range of fields, they market their services like an enter-
prise - an outstanding exception on the Spanish scene. Despite their brief
history (the Barcelona Polytechnic was established in 1971), the center's
achievements are promising and should lead to a substantial increase of
their contributions to industry over time. Achievements include the devel-
opment of new product prototypes based on advanced technology. Still, as
things now stand, the Polytechnic can handle only a few projects a year,
and has little overall impact on Spanish industrial technology.
F.   Government Industrial Research Institutes
31.       Government-funded industrial research institutes make only a small
contribution to Spanish industrial technology, despite the fact that some
are run by dedicated, well-trained researchers who are strongly motivated
to be of service to industry. The most important of the government-owned
laboratories doing industrial research are the Patronato "Juan de la Cierva"
of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Junta de Energia Nuclear (JEN)
of the Ministry of Industry, and the National Institute of Aerospace Tech-
nology (INTA) of the Air Ministry. (The last two are not primarily industrial
laboratories, but provide services to industry in such specialized fields as
analytical chemistry and aerodynamics, respectively.) Together they account
for only 3% of the total industrial R&D in Spain.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 10
32.       There is no doubt that the Patronato "Juan de la Cierva", would
benefit from increased budget, reorientation, redefinition of juridical frame-
work, and revision of administrative procedures. However, it should be stressed
that the essential problem of Spanish industrial technology goes beyond the ques-
tion of the administrative nature of the Patronato and the size of its budget.
The fundamental need is for an industrial strategy to which the Patronato, ap-
propriately organized and supported, and the other publically funded institu-
tions could make their contributions. Brief descriptions of these institutes
follow.
G.   The Research Centers of the Patronato "Juan de la Cierva"
33.       The Patronato "Juan de la Cierva" is an autonomous organization
responsible to the Higher Council on Scientific Research, which in turn
reports to the Ministry of Education and Science. It administers 22 institutes
concerned with research activities in a wide range of matters, including
food technology, fats and oils, construction materials, metallurgy, organic
chemistry and pharmacology. Sixteen of the institutes are in the Madrid area.
The Patronato group had an annual budget of Ptas. 975 million ($15 million) in
1972, and .t employed a staff of over 1,600.
34.       The Patronato maintains contact with industry through advisory
councils in which industry is represented and which approve individual
research projects. However, the administration of the Patronato is not ag-
gressively market-oriented; indeed, it is not permitted by its legal struc-
ture to actively market its services. Private contracts amounted to only
about Ptas. 45 million in 1972.
35.       Most of the research laboratories of the Patronato are well equipped
and technically up-to-date. Some of them even have gained some international
reputation, such as the Instituto Eduardo Torroja de la Construccion y del
Cemento, and the Valencia-based Instituto de Agroquimica y Tecnologia de
Alimentos. The efficiency of the Patronato laboratories, however, suffers
to a considerable degree from inflexible administrative regulations, like
the Ley de Administracion y Contabilidad del Estado of 1911 (revised), which
were intended to be applied to other public bodies than to a research organiza-
tion of the public sector. A change of the legal framework governing the
activities of the Patronato will be necessary to achieve a greater degree of
independence and market orientation in the Patronato.
36.       There is considerable room for organizational improvement in the
Patronato. Many institutes are too small for efficient and economic research
activities. For example, the majority of the institutes employ less than 100
people, and some even employ fewer than 50. In these cases, size becomes
a critical constraint in advancing research work to the subsequent stages of
product development. For lack of central laboratory services in the Patronato,
each institute tries to become self-sufficient in equipment and auxiliary
facilities, involving the danger of duplication and under-utilization of
installations and specialized staff.



ANNEX 3.1
Page 11
37.       In general, the Patronato would benefit from the combination of an
increased orientation towards the market for its services and its research
results, and a redefinition of its juridical framework to provide freedom to
disburse earnings from contract research and increase control over its own
finances. These two steps would best be taken together, as the increased free-
dom would be justified by the increased market orientation.
H.   Center for Nuclear Energy (JEN)
38.       JEN is. the largest and probably the best equipped research center in
Spain carrying out some industrial research. In 1972, JEN's budget was in the
order of Ptas. 1,400 million (about $22 million). Its full-time staff exceeds
2,300, of which about 1,400 are employed in Madrid. The activities of JEN
center on research and on engineering of nuclear reactors, the production and
sale of radioisotopes, and the application of radioisotopes in medicine, in-
dustry, and agriculture (irradiation of potatoes and other food). JEN has to
date constructed three experimental fast breeders, of which one was 100 per-
cent made in Spain. One reactor each was destined for Venezuela and Chile.
JEN also disposes of all technologies for the production of uranium, except
for uranium enrichment.
39.       JEN has been extending its fields of activity to cover additional
areas of interest to industry. Its diversification program includes research
activities in the fields of water desalination, pollution control, electronics,
metallurgy and ceramics. A substantial part of these activities is or can be
carried out in existing JEN facilities and with the presently available equip-
ment. In view of the high quality of staff and equipment employed at JEN, the
rather comfortable budgetary situation of JEN and JEN's well-established com-
munications with universities and polytechnics, the Bank mission was of the
impression that any further expansion of research activities, particularly to
the benefit of industry, would be desirable and promising.
I.   The National Institute of Aerospace Technology (INTA)
40.       INTA is a research institute dependent on the Air Ministry (Minis-
terio del Aire). Its 1972 budget amounted to Ptas. 449 million (about $7 mil-
lion). In 1972 INTA employed a research staff of about 1,000 people. Prima-
rily engaged in research related to flight and space techniques, INTA also
carries out general research work of potential interest to Spanish industry.
These supplementary activities include metallurgy and pollution control. More
important to date, however, are INTA's services to other research organizations
and industry, offering the use of its test and electronic data processing
equipment.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



ANNEX 3.2
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
DIRECT GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT 1/
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        Governments use a variety of rationales for direct intervention
in technological development. The specific policy instruments used vary in
number, scope, emphasis and severity of application, although they are all
part of the industrial policy framework. Differences in economic structure,
stage of industrial development, perceived comparative advantages, political
and economic philosophy, and even the more elusive conceptions of technolog-
ical prowess and international prestige dictate the approach taken by coun-
tries to stimulate technological development. Central planning of economic
and social development, total or indicative as the case may be, fuels the
temptation for governments to intervene in the national and international
markets for technology. Governments tend to view technological development
as the main means to achieve the major national goals. Innovation, which we
define as a process by which new ideas, products and processes are brought
to the marketplace, has emerged as a concept to occupy the center stage in
industrial policy discussions. It is the purpose of this paper to review
and when possible evaluate the effect of direct governmental mechanisms and
instruments in stimulating technological innovation. This paper presents
one possible framework for analysis and chooses for illustrative purposes
six countries: France, U.K., Sweden, Brazil, Canada and Korea. It concludes
with general observations which may have practical significance to interna-
tional development agencies.
Categorization of Direct Government Efforts
2.        Given the multiplicity of government objectives and the variety of
government instruments which could influence technological change in industry,
a cross-country comparison of the various measures is complex. It is equally
complex to separate the broad indirect economic, fiscal and social policies
of nations from specific measures used to stimulate sectors, industries or
firms. The relative effects of the patent system or antitrust policy are
manifold and touch so many areas that comparison of all the effects is not
possible. We assume that what is of fundamental interest is the effect that
the multitude of measures have on the behavior of individual firms or indus-
tries since it is there that innovation generally occurs, i.e., where technol-
ogy is actually brought into first commercial use or application. This paper
therefore concentrates its attention on those direct instruments through which
public funds are expended to influence technological change in private enter-
prises. Where necessary, the importance of nonspecific measures which improve
the economic and social environment for technical change are discussed.
1/   This paper was prepared by the Center for Policy Alternatives (CPA) of
M.I.T. at the request of the Bank. It is based on case studies made
previously by the Center. This annex presents a shortened version.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 2
3.        Based on a survey of industrial policies of several countries and
especially of policies for the promotion of technological innovation, improv-
ing the efficiency of industrial management, and policies for specific small
business and depressed regions, we have constructed a typology consisting of
a dozen ways in which governments may influence the behavior of firms or an
industry vis-a-vis innovation. Each one of these ways is called a mechanism
and each mechanism is composed of a variety of government instruments. A
particular instrument may appear under more than one mechanism. For example,
government procurement practices may be both a way of creating market demand
to stimulate innovation and a way of encouraging the formation of new firms
or entry of firms into a new market.
4.        We claim no unique quality for this typology.  We are merely attempt-
ing to provide a pragmatic, functional classification system to encompass the
various mechanisms used by governments. This generalized typology appears to
be reasonably exhaustive, but occasionally one might find it difficult to en-
ter a particular instrument within the confines of the typology presented or
one might also find that a single instrument might belong under several mech-
anisms. The direct mechanisms fall into three major categories:
Mechanisms Affecting "The Innovation Process" Itself
1.   Stimulating innovation by working through market forces.
2.   Reducing the cost of firms of undertaking innovative
activities.
3.   Reducing the probability of technical or commercial failure.
4.   Increasing the rewards to the firm for successful innovation.
5.   Encouraging innovation via market invasion
a. by new firms;
b. by old firms invading new markets.
6.   Structuring the industrial sector.
7.   Influencing the organization and management of individual
firms.
Mechanisms Affecting Resources
8.   Influencing the availability, utilization and mobility of
managerial and technical manpower.
9.   Assisting institutions (universities, research institutes,
private consulting firms, industries and governments) with
regard to the generation and utilization of technical knowl-
edge.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 3
10.   Increasing the transmission and transfer of technical
knowledge between institutions.
Mechanisms Ameliorating the Consequences of Technological Change
11.   Ameliorating the adverse consequences of technology with
respect to the environment and natural resources.
12.   Influencing labor's receptivity to technological change
and internalizing the human costs associated with innovative
activity.
5.        In comparing effectiveness of mechanisms in several national con-
texts, one must be guarded. A program developing new industry might be under-
taken by one country in order to solve a regional unemployment problem and be
deemed successful for that purpose by the government, while not providing the
country's consumers with products they could not buy abroad. On the other
hand, the measures of success utilized by a firm or industry are somewhat
narrower and are usually expressed in the term "commercially successful."
Obviously, it is much more difficult to compare the "successes" of even iden-
tical programs in the various countries if the national goals and measures
are different. Interview data collected from the firms, on the other hand,
may allow an easier comparison since government intent is not very relevant.
Both comparisons are useful if governments wish to implement programs result-
ing in commercial success within national constraints.
The Sample of Countries Chosen
6.        The number of countries whose policies are reviewed in this paper
is admittedly small. However, the paper has drawn heavily on information and
perceptions from a variety of sources and in particular from CPA's study of
the policies of five countries of Europe and its present research projects in
some developing countries.
7.        The sample of countries in this paper does occupy a spectrum of
governmental concern in science and technology matters, with France exhibit-
ing concerted government action over a long-term compared to Canada, which
like the United States has followed a kind of pluralistic policy with respect
to innovation in industry placing much reliance on general economic policies
to create a climate for technical development. In between is Brazil where
in recent years the government has itself become a prominent actor in the
industrial sector in addition to providing a host of incentives for techno-
logical development in the private non-governmental sector. In Great Britain,
although science and technology have figured prominently in political party
platforms, governmental incentives for innovation have a history of discon-
tinuity and diffusiveness. Korea's spectacular growth ad recent history of
technological development offers some instructive lessons to developing coun-
tries. Industrial policies of a welfare state as in Sweden emphasize the
amelioration of the adverse consequences of technical change, while maintain-
ing an openness to domestic and international competition in technology.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 4
8.        These capsule characterizations, of course, do not do justice to
current preoccupations in the more developed countries of the sample regard-
ing the real effectiveness of existing government-instruments to stimulate
innovation. There is concern that the array of assistance and incentive
programs have been conceived not from the point of view of technological
innovation, but rather to perpetuate or resuscitate industries in economic
trouble or to overcome regional disparities. In some of these countries,
the totality of these programs is often considered too supportive and may
in fact smother innovation. It is felt that while individual programs may
be models of excellence in concept and application, collectively they fail
to achieve their destiny due to the pluralistic approaches by several levels
of government. Some of these concerns are reflected in the next section of
the paper.
B. EVALUATIVE OBSERVATIONS ON GOVERNMENTAL MECHANISMS
9.        In this section some critical observations are offered regarding
the effectiveness of the several government instruments and some evaluative
criteria that emerge from the analysis of the mechanisms are stated. In the
interest of brevity, cross-national comparisons are held to a few observations
suggesting to the interested reader that he examine the more detailed listing
of the mechanisms in the appendices to the paper and the cross-country compar-
ison matrix in that section. 1/ Detailed descriptions of the general economic
climate and performance of each country in recent years and the structure of
government policymaking apparatus in each country is beyond the scope of this
paper.
10.       Among the twelve mechanisms discussed in what follows, particular
attention is directed to mechanisms that work through market forces (I),
reduce the cost of firms undertaking innovative activity (II) and mechanisms
VIII, IX and X which deal respectively with manpower, generation, and trans-
fer of knowledge. Several of the more important of the direct instruments
used by governments fall under these mechanisms. Development financing
agencies which work through national governments are likely to find these
instruments particularly useful in 'leveraging' their funds and amplifying
the contributions that the countries themselves are frequently willing to
make to increase the innovative capacity of domestic firms.
Working through Market Forces
11.       The influence of "market pull" on technological development has
been recognized in economic literature going back as far as Schumpeter (1928).
Embodied in this idea is that new products and processs will emerge if pro-
fitable markets for them exist or can be created.
1/   Not included in this annex.  Available on request.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 5
12.       The principal vehicles governments use to provide market incen-
tives are (1) government procurement practices, (2) products and process
standards, and (3) commercial policy and international trade. These are
frequently used by governments as complements to other mechanisms such as
reducing cost. Financial support may be given to a technology that the
government will subsequently purchase.
13.       In France, firms which develop new products and processes with
assistance from the Concerted Action Program or Aid to Development are given
preferential treatment in government procurement. The French have perhaps
the most highly developed activities deliberately related to the use of mar-
ket forces for stimulating innovation. The Plan Calcul and the Plan Construc-
tion use elaborate purchase schemes to encourage development of new products.
The U.K. has made extensive use of process and product standards to promote
innovative activity. Brazil is just now concerned with such standards, but
has begun to use export incentives and trade accords to introduce Brazilian
products into the international markets. Korea has recognized the need for
similar incentives. In both Korea and Brazil, the use of government procure-
ment programs specifically to stimulate innovation is quite rare although
export-driven strategies in these countries are exerting tremendous pressure
for product quality improvement. Similarly in Canada no special effort is
made to use government procurement as a stimulus to innovation. Standards
are, however, set for major purchase items, especially military ones and this
combined with a federal policy to buy more of its R & D is aimed at improving
the innovative capability of Canadian industry.
Reducing the Cost to Firms of Undertaking Innovation Activity
14.       The most common tool to which a government resorts to encourage
firms to undertake innovation is financial incentives: loans, grants, tax
credits, deductions, loan guarantees or other devices which effectively lower
the cost to the firm undertaking innovative activity. Categorical programs
for aiding development of new technology by firms may address different phases
of the innovation process. In France, the Concerted Action Program funds
applied research, the Aid to Development funds preproduction and the Letter
of Agreement helps offset the costs of initial inventory and production. In
Brazil, CNPq and FAPESP provide funds for research and development at univer-
sity and government laboratories and FINEP and FUNTEC provide funds for feasi-
bility studies leading to commercialization.
15.       Governments justify such direct assistance to firms, (1) to stimu-
late moribund firms, (2) to share risks which are too large for individual
firms to handle, (3) to stimulate innovations destined for eventual govern-
ment consumption, (4) to promote innovations where there are substantial
external benefits to be gained by the public at large and (5) to support the
development of critical industries whose success is seen as vital to either
future economic growth or the maintenance of national prestige.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 6
16.       In most of the countries included in this paper, one notices a
tendency for the older well-established firms, who already have a substantial
R & D commitment to receive additional assistance from the government. This
assertion is supported by the results of a five European country study con-
ducted at the Center. It is also possible that the government bureaucracy
concered with dispensing aid is much more sensitive to public security and
wants to make sure that it has a large number of "sure-bets" in the portfolio
of projects supported by it.
17.       When the major purpose of government aid is risk-sharing, one of
the several criteria for evaluation is whether the project finally undertaken
by the firm might have been undertaken even without government aid. A second
criteria would be to ask if the project indeed represented a substantial risk
beyond the capability of the firm to absorb. In France, for example, a major-
ity of Aid to Development went to the largest firms in the country for proj-
ects as small as $100,000. Many of the projects could have been undertaken
without government support, so it seems.
18.       Another problem of project appraisal is that a large firm might have
a partially ordered list of projects. If it can seek out and receive aid for
projects high on the list, this frees up internal funds to be used to support
other projects lower on the list. Thus government aid might be inducing firms
to support projects it might otherwise leave aside, but these projects may not
be the same ones for which it received government funds. As the DGRST does in
France, it is thus important to examine the entire portfolio of the firm to
determine what kinds of projects it may be supporting by displacement. One
cannot generalize on the appropriate level of aid in the development of a
particular project without undertaking a detailed analysis of the total cost
of development and the scrutiny of market potentials for the project and pro-
cesses to be developed by the project.
19.       When the primary objective of direct assistance is to insure the
production of a technology ultimately destined for government use, simple
technical success of the project is an adequate measure of the effectiveness
of the program since the market by definition is assured.
20.       When externalities play a significant role in the decision to sub-
sidize innovation, cost-benefit analysis similar to those used in risk-sharing
type of assistance can be used, although the estimates of social costs and
benefits is fraught with many methodological problems. The "key technology"
objective is the most difficult to evaluate because of the many intangible
values included in it. In many developing countries the key technology
argument is frequently used by governments to intervene in the market place
for technology, to nationalize foreign firms and to limit the scope of opera-
tions of MNCs. Often lacking is the skill and experience at the level of the
firm in the evaluation of the commercial and technical risks in developing
new products and processes for national and especially international markets
R & D is performed in government laboratories with very weak links to users
of the technology.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 7
21.       Among the countries reviewed, the French have been quite innovative
in the use of fiscal incentives. In recent years the Brazilians have tried
a variety of fiscal incentives to stimulate technological development. The
French have devoted very large sums to risk-sharing programs, with firms re-
ceiving such support from one or more government financing mechanisms. The
use of government programs to direct capital to specific industries is also
quite pronounced in Great Britain. All the countries discussed in this paper
have supported the creation of specialized institutions for directing support
to industrial R & D and to small firms leading to the patenting of new prod-
ucts or the creation of new enterprises: NRDC (Great Britain); ANVAR (France);
FINEP and FUNTEC (Brazil); STU (Sweden); IRDIA, PAIT and IDB (Canada); KIST
(Korea).
22.       In a series of interviews conducted by the CPA researchers in
Europe, programs which operated to reduce the cost of innovation to the firm
were reported more often than any other instrument.
23.       It should also be noted that because of its concessionary nature
government aid is the first form of assistance sought by firms in many of
the developed economies. In the developing countries there might be lack of
knowledge on the part of industry of government incentives available (there
is evidence in Brazil to suggest this) and also a certain hesitancy in not
wanting to reveal the first priorities and "open the books" of the enterprise
to government authorities. There are cases in recent British technological
development history (as in other countries) where firms have withdrawn
requests for governmental assistance because of the red tape involved in
receiving and accounting for government funds. In Canada, a series of recent
evaluations seem to have concluded that the present system of incentives
may be overgenerous and is not achieving the intended impact on innovation.
The cancellation of the Industrial Research and Development Incentive Act
(IRDIA) has recently been announced by the Canadian government.
Reducing the Probability of Technical or Commercial Failure
24.       The riskiness of a particular technological development is the sum
total of a number of variables: time, money, competition among many others.
Many government programs including especially those discussed previously in-
fluence the success or failure of a particular project. Success depends very
much on the resourcefulness of the firm itself and government programs may
only have a marginal effect.
25.       Technical risks can be reduced by government programs if they can
provide up-to-date timely technical information. Accurate market information
can help reduce the risk of commercial failure. If in addition government
guarantees a market fo the product, the entrepreneur is well protected. The
availability of prompt technical assistance through universities, productivity
centers, consulting firms, cooperative research organizations and government
trade bureaus is important.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 8
26.       Market information is provided in France through the National Eco-
nomic Plan and COFACE (Export Insurance Co.) trade associations among other
agencies. In Brazil and Korea formal market information systems are still
very weak, although the Brazilian industry federations are beginning to step
in to provide information to their members.
27.       In the target countries competition is viewed somewhat ambivalently.
In the developed countries of this group competition is thought to be neces-
sary to improve productivity, prevent monopoly pricing, and eliminate dupli-
cate expenditures on R & D and innovation. A certain degree of competition
in a sector seems to be positively correlated with innovation. In both
Britain and France are to be found examples of government aid-providing
agencies encouraging firms to pool their resources to exploit certain inno-
vative product or process ideas. Examples of domestic firms being encouraged
by governments to join forces against foreign competition are, however, more
frequent. Import quotas, tariffs, manipulation of technical standards, and
other restriction of competitive entry by foreign firms such as 'Buy National'
policies are common in most of the countries whose policies are being reviewed
here, except perhaps Sweden.
Increasing Rewards to Firms that Successfully Innovate
28.       Unless a firm perceives a gain from innovative activity, it is un-
likely to assume the risks and costs which accompany innovation. Governments
have responded to this situation by enacting programs that ensure sufficient
returns on innovations that are successful.  Policy instruments that fall into
this category are:
1.   Patent laws;
2.   Policies that govern licensing of both patentable and
unpatentable knowledge;
3.   Restrictive trade regulations; and
4.   Certain preferential tax practices.
Issues relevant to this mechanism are:
1.   A firm in a competitive market faces the possibility that other
firms may reap the rewards flowing from its innovation at little or no cost
to the other firms. Given such external economies, firms may actually find
it disadvantageous to innovate. Typically this issue is raised when a gov-
ernment considers policy positions towards patents and patents licensing.
Governmental action in this situation may turn out to be "overgenerous" if
a large number of patents are placed in the hands of a few firms.
2.   A second disincentive to innovative activity perceived by firms is
"overtaxation" of the end income yielded from the innovation, be this income
in the form of patents, stock or profits. Such overtaxation may destroy the
risk/reward ratio.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 9
29.       Capital gains taxation at favorable rates for certain gains is
one method of compensating risk-taking enterprises or individuals. Another
method is to allow losses to be written off against profits in future years.
For a small company, preferential tax rates could be established to encourage
investment in risky projects.
30.       Firms attach varying importance to patents and licenses.  It would
appear that industry differences are more significant than national patent
policies. Chemical and textile industries seem to attach more importance to
patents, their own and their competitors than say metal working industries.
Whereas Great Britain, France, Canada and Sweden have sophisticated patent
systems and licensing mechanisms, Brazil and Korea are in earlier stages of
developing systems and capabilities to monitor and profit by international
patent and licensing activities. Present policies in these countries can be
characterized as defensive of national interests and firms and not designed
to enable firmst to creatively exploit the opportunities presented by the
patent system.
Encouraging Innovation via Market Penetration
31.       Government policy, in addition to operating on the variables which
enter into market decisions (cost, risk, reward) can also stimulate new or
old firms to invade a new market for the first time or change the entire
industrial sector to enable firms to take advantage of new or old markets.
In this mechanism we are concerned with policies that foster the creation of
healthy venture capital market. Other supporting mechanisms could include
incorporation laws, compulsory subcontracting in government procurement and
certain tax policies.
32.       With the exception of U.K., where equity financing has long played
an important role, the market for venture capital in all the countries in-
cluded in this paper is marginal. Brazil, through its development banks and
through FINEP, has begun to provide venture capital for national firms. In
Canada CDC and IDB provide venture capital. The absence of an effective over-
the-counter market in all the countries included in this paper is a major
barrier to provide equity investment, as it limits the ability of the capital-
ist to realize his paper gains.
33.       In addition to providing venture capital, the provision of manage-
ment services is equally important, but governments are usually unable to
provide this service effectively.
(a) It must be mentioned that market penetration is basically
a destabilizing phenomenon. It might displace jobs, firms
or entire industries.



ANNEX 3.2
Page 10
(b)  Because the domestic markets of the countries reviewed here
(except Brazil) are relatively small, there is a tendency
to view certain firms as "national champions." This makes
it difficult to encourage market invasion domestically and
even if a government wants to it often goes counter to
other national objectives.
Structuring the Industrial Sector
34.       Governments in the countries reviewed here have engaged in substan-
tial efforts to restructure particular industries. Brazil's attempts in the
show and furniture industries, France's Vth Plan restructuring operations in
steel, petroleum, electronics, chemicals and textiles, the British programs
to restructure textiles, roller bearings, shipyards, and automobile industries
and Canadian government entry into the aircraft industry come to mind in this
connection.
35.       Usually industrial restructuring policies take the form of consoli-
dations and agglomeration. Forcing closure of small firms, encouraging coop-
erative research and marketing activities, providing massive support to sec-
tors exposed to international competition or rapidly changing technology, are
some of the modes in which governments operate. Again there is scant evidence
to support or disprove the influence of mergers on innovation. The country
most notable for its management of its industrial structure is Japan. Sweden
has followed a policy of benign neglect and Canada has traditionally been re-
luctant to intervene in restructuring industry, although it has recently en-
tered directly into the aircraft industry. Restructuring is often based on
considerations of economy of scale and capital requirements rather than con-
siderations of so-called "critical mass for R & D." In Brazil, restructuring
has taken the extreme form of substantial government ownership of productive
activities in many sectors. This mechanism cannot be effective without other
mechanisms which promote capital and labor mobility.
Influencing the Organization and Management of Individual Firms with Respect
to Innovation
36.       There have been several studies to seek a relationship between the
organization of a firm and its success in innovation. A strong correlation
seems to exist between successful innovation and the extent the innovative
firm truly understands user needs. The importance of the firm being open to
information from outside and the special role of the 'entrepreneur' are also
pointed out in these studies. But in spite of all this, few government
programs consider how their policies can successfully influence innovation by
manipulating organizational variables.
37.       U.S. defense establishments require contractors to adopt project
management methods. France's Aid to Development Program also requires sys-
tematic project analysis with its market implications and further demands
the naming of a single individual as a contact point in the firm. Some



ANNEX 3.2
Page 11
Brazilian agencies also require information on management systems and fea-
sibility studies prior to grants or loans and provide financial support
for such studies (FINEP).  There are some examples in the British computer
industry where the organization of firms underwent drastic changes as a
result of governmental aid.
38.       Informal evidence suggests that direct governmental assistance has
major implications for the management of firms. But few governments have
consciously used this mechanism to influence profound changes in organization
of the firms assisted.   An exception seems to be Korea where the government
appears to exert a strong pressure on family-owned enterprises to open to the
public.
Influencing the Availability, Utilization and Mobility of Managerial
and Technical Manpower
39.       Many manpower programs are uncritically regarded as parts of the
system of education. But in most of the countries reviewed here governments
intervene heavily in the manpower supply system. The concern with high-level
manpower (engineers, managers, scientists, technicians and skilled workers)
is acute in most of the countries of the sample. This is an area in which
the social objectives (employment creation, lessening the effect of technical
changes on workers, promoting mobility, regional development) and technological
objectives (increasing output, generation of new products and processes,
improving quality, etc.) intersect and strongly influence government actions.
40.       Sweden and Great Britain seem to have the largest packages of man-
power assistance programs. Brazil's SENAI programs are some of the oldest
programs in the Latin American region to encourage industry to bear much of
the cost of training of skilled manpower. Korea also encourages its big
industries to start training programs within industry. On the other hand, in
spite of the massive support given to universities most countries experience
difficulty in relating the work of universities to industrial needs. Great
Britain's 'sandwich' programs are well-known and other countries are experi-
menting with variations of this approach to bridge the distance between uni-
versity training and research and industrial needs.
The Creation and Dissemination of Knowledge
41.       All countries included in this paper have over the past 25 years
increased the financial support extended to the various institutions that
generate scientific and technical knowledge. Such generators are the uni-
versities, private or publicly owned research laboratories, government re-
search labs and industrial laboratories.
42.       A dynamic interaction among activities and among R & D projects
in different technical fields should exist in an ideal system for the produc-
tion of knowledge and its diffusion. But, in many of the countries reviewed
here the extent of interaction depends on (a) research priorities of each



ANNEX 3.2
Page 12
component, (b) government R & D funding levels, (c) bureaucratic constraints
on interaction, and (d) physical distance. Changing grant and contract
policies set up perturbations in the system. Another factor may also be the
changing supply and demand for critical high-level manpower for which the
components of the above system might compete. In a number of studies the
importance of technological "gate-keepers," the bearers and transferers of
information, have been shown to be important, but such gate-keepers are lack-
ing in many national situations.
43.       The correlation between R & D productivity, presumably a measure
used for support of R & D by some governments, comes out small or negative.
In the case of Japan, which has the highest productivity in manufacturing,
R & D is the lowest of most developed countries.
GNP
44.       The balance of payments on patents and licenses has been suggested
as a better yardstick and even here the ranking of countries according to
balance of payments for technology and R & D investment do not also correlate.
It is possible that R & D may lead to inventions, but the lack or slow rate
of transfer of knowledge within the country may account for the absence of
a subsequent correlation between balance of payments and productivity. The
"rate of exchange" or "transfer" between the components of the dynamic equi-
librium model described above may be the missing factor.
45.       Some survey data indicate that 'transfer' may be more important
than the mere generation of knowledge. Firms in France and U.K. encounter
technology transfer as a frequent government strategy. Brazil and Korea both
have some explicit incentives for technology transfer both within the country
and from outside. Brazil has now converted some of its state level research
institutions into public corporations to release them from bureaucratic con-
straints under which they were operating. Great Britain is encouraging gov-
ernment research institutions to undertake contract research for industry.
Interfacial institutes or centers between universities and industries may
be necessary to encourage active tranfer of knowledge between them.
C. SOME IMPLICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
46.       While development agencies have been investing heavily in large
infrastructure and industrial development projects for quite some time,
support to specific industrial R & D projects with a view to the commer-
cialization of the products and processes is recent and limited to a few
countries. It is true that in the early years of development assistance,
when assistance to small and medium scale industries was in vogue, multi-
lateral and bilateral assistance agencies experimented with a variety of
modes for stimulating small and medium scale industries to improve produc-
tivity, standardize products and seek wider markets. Small scale industry
development projects in India, the 'Induk' program in Indonesia, the 'Asimov'



ANNEX 3.2
Page 13
projects in the Northeast of Brazil bear witness to these early efforts. The
recent emphasis on 'appropriate,' 'low-cost,' 'intermediate' technologies
represents a nostalgic return to the early efforts with the added emphasis on
employment generation, distributive effects of industrialization and ameliora-
tion of the adverse consequences of technical change including a pronounced
concern for conservation of resources and energy.
47.       While development thinking has traversed a full circle, developing
countries have moved at varying rates to build the basic scientific and tech-
nological infrastructure needed for development. In several countries such
as Brazil, Korea, Singapore, Israel, Philippines, India, Turkey, Mexico the
infrastructure includes universities, industrial and government laboratories,
engineering companies, science foundations and some high-technology industries
now exist. Some of these countries are now beginning to export technologies
developed in national laboratories and industries. In this class of countries,
the big task of developing policies and programs is to encourage and sustain
the still incipient capacity for innovation by national firms. Of course,
there are many other countries in Africa, Asia and the Middle East where the
installation of the infrastructure is barely begun and the critical human
resources needed, including the entrepreneurial element, are still lacking.
Developed country models are often ill-adapted for use in such national situa-
tions, especially those which take for granted the existence of a strong
entrepreneurial class willing and able to take advantage of incentives for
innovation provided by an open market for technology and those provided by
the government.
48.       While external participation in providing venture capital for
innovation has a catalytic effect, the long-term expectation is that the
nations so assisted would develop their own mechanisms and instruments for
providing capital to risk-oriented enterprises. U.K.'s National Research
and Development Corporation, Brazil's FINEP and Canada's CDC and IDB pro-
vide some models of organizations for emulation in other countries where
in the absence of an aggressive banking system or an effective over-the-
counter market the government becomes the sole source of venture capital
and the broker between the innovative firm or the inventor and the market
for the new product or invention. The risk-taking small company in most
developing countries finds it most difficult to finance its innovation
activities. New types of institutional mechanisms are needed to provide
venture capital to such enterprises and development agencies may have a
special role in helping governments in catalyzing their development.
49.       In the developed and in some developing countries the sheer num-
ber of incentives available to industry may produce counterproductive ef-
fects. The complexity of management of the diverse programs and the costs
of their administration reduce their effectiveness. The small scale indus-
try entrepreneur might lack the information and the sophistication to profit
by them, while the larger enterprise may be reaping disproportionate bene-
fits. A Canadian science administrator has said: "The uncertainties of
funding, the complexities of administration, the changes and renewals of



ANNEX 3.2
Page 14
government policy, the dependencies that are created by the mere existence
of incentive programs need to be balanced against the advantages that these
programs purportedly bring. If the government of Canada does indeed con-
sult industry - as it should - as it creates new programs to encourage
innovation in Canada, we will all need to be thinking about whether we
want to plunge back into the alphabet soup of government support." Agen-
cies that purport to promote innovation in national industries especially
the small firms, must acquire the capability to "package" the variety of
incentives available to more purposefully direct them to selected firms.
Industrial Projects Department
September 1976



ANNEX 3.3
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
LEGISLATION ON THE PURCHASE OF FOREIGN TECHNOLOGY
1.        With the general objective of ensuring that imported foreign tech-
nology is compatible with Spanish economic requirements and that the condi-
tions under which it is purchased do not unduly compromise and restrict the
operations of the receiving party, the Spanish Government introduced legis-
lation in 1973 requiring prior approval of contracts for the purchase of for-
eign technology. Relevant provisions have been laid out in Decree 2343 of
September 21, 1973 and in the Order of December 5, 1973, issued by the Min-
istry of Industry.
2.        According to these provisions, any Spanish firm intending to
acquire a license for the manufacture of a product or to obtain foreign
technology of other types that require contractual agreement with the
conveying party, must submit the proposed contract for approval to the
Director-General of Industrial Promotion and Technology of the Ministry
of Industry. The Spanish firm must also complete a questionnaire setting
forth details of its existing business, its relationship to the foreign
firm, a description of the technology being transferred and how it will
be used, and other information.
3.        The Spanish firm must specifically supply the following data:
(a) Total capital of the firm;
(b) Names of the most important Spanish shareholders
and the percent of shares held;
(c) The same information as (2) on foreign share-
holders, including their nationality;
(d) The locality of plants of the company;
(e) The principal products and services by
establishment, and the value of annual
production;
(f) The value of goods exported and imported
in the previous two years, by type of
goods;



ANNEX 3.3
Page 2
(g) The number of employees broken down by
managers, administrators, technicians and
laborers;
(h) Current contracts in force for the acqui-
sition of technology, including the name of
the conveying firm, the data of initiation,
and description of the technology;
(i) Contracts for transfer of technology from
the Spanish firm, including analogous infor-
mation as in (h);
(j) A description of the firm's own research and
development activities during the previous
three years, including the budget allocated
(total value and as percent of sales) and the
number of technicians assigned;
(k) A description of the role that the Spanish
firm intends to play in technological devel-
opment, especially in the light of the pro-
posed agreement and the plans to adapt or
improve on the technology to be imported.
4.        A main part of the questionnaire requires a detailed description
of the technology that is to be transferred and the economic and financial
benefits that are expected to accrue both to the firm itself and to the
economy as a whole. The information that must be presented includes the
following items:
(a) A detailed description of the technology
using the technical terms in common use in
the industry;
(b) The processes and products of the Spanish
firm benefitting from this technology;
(c) The patents that will be affected by the
technology (either Spanish or in force in
Spain);
(d) The names of other countries in which these
patents are registered;
(e) Trademarks affected by the agreement;
(f) An estimate of the volume of output that
will be obtained with this technology and
the markets to which it will be shipped;



ANNEX 3.3
Page 3
(g) The raw materials, components, and equip-
ment that the new technology requires and
their sources of supply.
5.        The questionnaire finally contains a checklist of conditions that
the Government regards as unfavorable. If such clauses are included in the
proposed contract, the parties are required to state the special circum-
stances that are alleged to justify their inclusion. In subsequent nego-
tiations, the Government representatives then try to soften or to remove
these clauses from the agreement. In brief, these prohibited clauses in-
clude the following types of provisions:
(a) To prohibit or limit the use of technologies
of the Spanish firm itself; to prohibit or
limit the utilization of non-patented infor-
mation once the patent has expired, or to
limit or annul the research, innovation or
technical development activities of the
Spanish firm;
(b) To require the transfer of patents, improve-
ments or innovations achieved in the Spanish
firm as a result of using the technology cov-
ered in the agreement;
(c) To establish the transfer in the form of blocs
containing unnecessary elements of little value
to the Spanish side;
(d) To establish a transfer of technology that is
wholly or partially obsolete, insufficiently
competitive, etc., with the effect that incom-
patible norms or qualities are created;
(e) To prohibit or limit excessively the areas of
marketing, to require the purchase of raw mate-
rials and components from the foreign firm or
others that the latter may stipulate;
(f) To limit the freedom of the Spanish firm in
deciding on appropriate levels, models, prices
and times of production;
(g) To provide favorable terms for the foreign firm
in sales in the Spanish market;
(h) To bind the Spanish firm to act in ways contrary
to the interests of the Spanish economy;



ANNEX 3.3
Page 4
(i) To establish the right of the foreign firm
to intervene, control, or affect the manage-
ment of the Spanish firm or its plans for
expansion or diversification;
(j) To impose payments much greater than is
normal in the market;
(k) To establish payments proportional to the
level of output without deducting the cost
of imported goods used, or without excluding
lines of production not affected by the tech-
nology;
(1) To impose payments based on levels above those
actually achieved when the firm in majority-
foreign owned or when the foreign firm fur-
nishes materials in excess of 30 percent of
production cost;
(m)  To establish differential prices for materials
and other supplies delivered by the foreign
firm;
(n) To impose an inadequate period of time in
the contract or to establish an automatic
extension of it in a way to require payments
after patents have expired; and
(o) To impose interpretations of the contract in
foreign languages different from the ones of
the contract to be signed.
6.        The complete list of information that is requird by the Govern-
ment, including the checklist of clauses that are considered undesirable,
is more than sufficient to provide control over the transfer of technology.
Some of the information required is clearly excessive and difficult to pre-
pare. This may lead to the provision of inaccurate and otherwise super-
ficial or wrong statements, or may act as a deterrent to using foreign
technology. Moreover, some of the criteria are so vague (e.g. points h
and j of para. 5) that their usefulness in the evaluation of the tech-
nology transfer is questionable.
7.        It is, nevertheless, of importance for the present project that
there are now mechanisms in Spain that may be useful in protecting and nur-
turing domestic efforts to expand domestic capabilities in developing and



ANNEX 3.3
Page 5
marketing new products. Importantly, these instruments can be used to en-
sure that transfers of technology from abroad are complementary to and sup-
portive of domestic R&D efforts.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



ANNEX 3.4
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROGRAM SIZE AND COST ESTIMATE
A.   Introduction
1.        This annex attempts to determine the minimum critical RD&E program
size (e.g. number of RD&E projects to be supported annually) and the corres-
ponding cost estimate or budget over the initial five to eight years of oper-
ation after which period the program should be financially self-sustaining.
Section B describes a micro approach towards determining the program size
and cost, and Section C discusses a macro approach towards determining the
program cost or budget. The two methods, however, are complementary rather
than alternative approaches. They not only validate each other, but can be
linked together to form a system through which the impact of the micro ele-
ments and the program on the national RD&E effort can be traced. This link-
age also provides a means by which some of the non-quantifiable or judgement
factors in one approach are made more explicit.
2.        The concept of a minimum critical RD&E program size has three
aspects: Firstly, the program should be able to generate enough commer-
cially successful projects so that the royalty payments or cash returns
would be adequate to financially support the program, at least at the same
level of activity, in the future. Financial self-sufficiency in this con-
text is used in a budgetary or cashflow breakeven sense and need not in-
clude or imply any surplus or profit. Secondly, the number of commercially
successful projects must be sufficient to have a demonstration effect thereby
encouraging Spanish industry to undertake more RD&E investments. Finally,
the program should fill a measurable portion of the gap between the target
or desired level of national RD&E effort and the level that would otherwise
be attained if only historical trends and existing programs are relied upon.
B.   Determining a Minimum Critical Effort - A Micro Approach
3.        In this section, the annual budget for the proposed RD&E Unit
will be estimated on the basis of the average cost of recent R&D projects
in Spain. The average R&D project cost structure, in terms of the proportion
of the project expenditures going for personnel, operating costs and capital
expenses will also be developed. This would be followed by an evaluation of
the minimum number of RD&E projects that ought to be initiated annually by
the proposed program,-and then an estimation of the initial funding require-
ment for the program.
4.        The range of cost for industrial RD&E projects is very wide.  Data
from CAICYT 1/ for example (Table 1), show that the RD&E projects approved
1/   CAICYT - Comision Asesora de Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnica.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 2
for financial assisLance during 1974-76 had project costs ranging from US$50,000
to US$4,000,000. The average project cost estimate for projects approved
during 1975 and 1976 is about US$640,000 in current terms. Discussions with
representativec of CAICYT and the Ministry of Industry provided a consensus
that for the RD&E Unit an average project cost of US$745,000 (in constant 1976
dollars) would be appropriate. This average cost of US$745,000 per project
appears reasonable for the proposed program considering that the program will
emphasize product and process development types of projects which would need
testing and pilot plant equipment. This average project cost will be used as
a basis for determining the budget for proposed RD&E program.
5.        The cost structure of RD&E projects also varies widely, with capital
costs 1/ accounting for anywhere from 20% to 60% of the total project cost.
While no data are available on a project by project basis, the annual R&D
expenditure data, either for INI 2/ (Table 2) or for the manufacturing sector
(Table 3), which covers several on-going as well as newly initiated projects
during a particular year, could be separated into operating expenses (per-
sonnel plus others) and capital costs. Under two reasonable assumptions,
the resulting proportion of capital cost to total project cost can be used
as a guide to developing an average cost structure for the projects to be
financed under this program. The first assumption is to take the average
project duration as constant. The second assumption is to take a steady-
state situation wherein the number of new projects started is about the
same as the number of projects completed during a year. For example, should
an average duration of three years be assumed for the projects covered by
the 1971 and 1972 annual R&D expenditure data for the manufacturing sector
(Table 3), then there will be two on-going projects for each new project
initiated during the year. This would then indicate that the annual R&D
expenditure data would include three times the average annual operating
expenses for the corresponding capital cost expenditure. The 1971 and 1972
data in Table 3 show capital costs account for 20% of the annual expendi-
ture with operating expenses representing the other 80%. Given the pre-
ceding assumptions, the typical R&D project would then have the same cost
structure--about 20% of the project cost would be for capital expenditure
and 80% would be for operating expenses, the latter spread over a three-year
period.
6.        For the proposed program, the cost structure will contain a larger
proportion of capital cost than either the INI experience or the national
average for the manufacturing industries during 1971 and 1972, since the
RD&E Unit will emphasize pilot plant type of development activities. The
assumed average cost structure for the projects is shown in the following
table, indicating an average of 53% of the project cost being spent for
capital and 47% for operating expenses. The average employment is five
persons per project for three years. This cost structure was derived from
a few examples of industrial RD&E projects from CAICYT which showed capital
1/   Capital costs include equipment, erection and fixtures for the testing or
pilot plant. Operating costs cover personnel, consumable materials and
other costs related to the actual testing operations.
2/   INI - Instituto Nacional de Industria.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 3
costs accounting for at least one-half of the project cost. Personnel costs
were estimated on the basis of both the INI salary range for R&D personnel
and information from the sample of projects from CAICYT. The program is
thus more capital intensive than the national or the INI experience. A more
capital intensive R&D program is necessary since most of the current R&D
projects generally involve only minor product improvements or quality control
related activities which are labor intensive. The gap in R&D activity is in
the pilot plant type of research.
7.        During the four-year period, 1968-1971, CAICYT received an annual
average of 40 applications for financial support of industrial type R&D
projects of which an average of 13 were approved. By 1974 and 1975, the
number of applications (industrial R&D projects) have increased threefold
to about 126 annually and the number of projects granted financial support
also increased to an average of 32 each year. The industrial type of R&D
projects being supported by CAICYT require from two to five years to complete,
with three years as the average. Experience up to 1972 show that about one-
third of the projects were judged as commercially successful with the balance
judged as only technically successful or completely unsuccessful or still
awaiting qualification. Commercial success implies that a viable venture
would follow or did follow the R&D activity. It is possible that the success
rate for projects initiated after 1972 would be slightly higher than one-
third, given the experience gained in evaluating applications. Experience
in the United States indicates that among industrial RD&E projects sponsored
by formally organized R&D institutions (e.g. laboratories), about 10 to 20%
of the projects can be expected to be exceptional commercial successes and
another 20 to 30% can be expected to be acceptable commercial successes.
8.        For the proposed program, it will be assumed that an average of
one-third of the RD&E projects will be commercially successful. The actual
success rate will of course depend on the effectiveness of the screening
process which depends heavily on judgemental factors. The success rate
could be more or less but one-third would be a reasonable estimate for the
initial years of the program assuming that relatively experienced staff will
be utilized to evaluate the applications. Also, an average duration of three
years for the RD&E projects is assumed. Finally, an additional two years for
commercialization or investments in commercial facilities is assumed for
successful RD&E projects before benefits or revenues are realized.
8.        To fulfill its demonstration role, the program should generate at
least one commercially successful project each year and gradually improve its
screening capability so that its success rate will increase beyond one-third.
To insure that at least one project is successful each year (or out of the
projects financed in one year), the RD&E Unit should set the number of
projects such that the probability that all projects are unsuccessful is
less than say 1% to 3%. Given a success rate of one-third, financing 9
annually would lead to a 2.6% chance that no single project is successful.
with 12 projects each year, there is only a 0.8% chance of having no success-



ANNEX 3.4
Page 4
ful project in any year. 1/ But to be eventually financially self-supporting,
however, the program must generate an average of perhaps three to five success-
ful projects each year, depending on the success rate, the royalty rate, and
the potential revenues generated by successful projects. Finally, to fill a
meaningful portion, say from 5% to 15%, of the national R&D expenditure gap,
the program should have an annual budget of about US$4 to 10 million (in
constant 1976 US dollars). With all these considerations in mind, it is
estimated that the RD&E Unit should initiate from 9 to 12 projects annually
with the expectation of three or four commercially successful projects among
every 9 or 12 that is undertaken respectively.
9.        The budgetary support for the program, that is, financial support
from the Government, will be estimated for two cases: Case I - twelve pro-
jects are financed annually; and Case II - nine projects are funded each
year. Table 7 shows the disbursement schedule per project over the three-
year average implementation period. The Table also shows for Case II, the
program disbursement schedule in both foreign exchange costs and local resource
costs over an eight-year period (1977-1984). To calculate the budgetary
support from the Government, the administrative costs of the RD&E Unit must be
determined and added to the costs of the projects. On the basis of about four
senior personnel (at $100,000 annually in constant 1976 US dollars), eight
other personnel ($120,000 annually) and provisions for operating costs and
contingencies ($80,000 annually), an annual administrative budget of US$300,000
would be required, all in local currency costs. Table 6 shows the Government
budgetary support for the program covering both project and administrative
costs for either Case I or Case II under two royalty payment assumptions.
First, royalty payments on each successful project is set at a breakeven level
of about US$0.58 million annually over four years and second, the royalty
payments are set at twice the breakeven level or US$1.16 million annually (in
constant 1976 US dollars). The budgetary support required for either Case I
or Case II under the alternative royalty payment assumptions are summarized in
the following Table.
10.       Because of the assumption that the average project duration is
three years and that an additional two years are needed for commercial devel-
opment, the program is not expected to be financially self-supporting until
after six to eight years, depending on the level of royalty payments received
from successful projects. In the most conservative case where royalty pay-
ments are just enough for a cash breakeven operation, the program can be
expected to require Government budgetary support for eight years. For Case I,
the total support over the eight-year period will be about US$75 million
equivalent (in current US dollars) of which about US$44 million will be in
1/   Mathematicglly, the number of projects each year, N is chosen such
that (1-P) is less than say 0.03 or 3% where P is the probability of
success.



ANNEX 3.4
Page" 5
RD&CE Program - Govermment Budgetary SuIpport
(In Millions of Current US Dollars)lf-
A.  Royalty Payments at Breakeven Level:
CASE I                           CASE II
Foreign    Domestic               Foreign    Domestic
Exchange   Resource   Total       Exchange   Resource   Total
Year              Cost        Cost       Cost        Cost       Cost        Cost
1   (1977/78)       4.2          2.7      6.9           3.2        2.1      5.3
2                   4.8          4.3      9.1           3.6        3.3       6.9
3                   5.4          6.2     11.6           4.1        4.6       8.7
4                   5.8          6.6     12.4           4.3        5.1       9.4
5   (1981/82)       6.2          7.0     13.2           4.6        5.4      10.0
Five-Year Total    26.4         26.8     53.2          19.8       20.5      40.3
6   (1982/83)       6.6          4.0    10.6            5.0        3.0       8.0
7                   7.1          0.5     7.6            5.3        0.4       5.7
8   (1984/85)       4.0           -      4.0            3.1                  3.1
Total Support      44.1         31.3    75.4           33.2       23.9      57.1
Say:                44           31      75             33         24        57
B.  Royalty Payments at Twice the Breakeven Level
1   (1977/78)        4.2         2.7     6.9            3.2        2.1       5.3
2                   4.8          4.3     9.1            3.6        3.3       6.9
3                   5.4          6.2    ll.6            4.1        4.6       8.7
4                   5.8          6.6    12.4            4.3        5.1       9.4
5   (1981/82)       6.2          7.0    13.2            4.6        5.4      10.
Five-Year Total    26.4         26.8    53.2           19.8       20.5      40.3
6   (1982/33)       6.6          0.5     7.1            5.0        0.4       5.4
7                           -         -          -       _          _
8   (1981185)       _             -
Total Support      33.0         27.3    60.3           24.8       20.9      45.7
Say:                 33          27      60             25         21        46
1/  The majm-' assumptions are as follows:-  (a) the success rate for projects
io one-third; (b) the RD3E duration is three years plus two additional
years Thr commercialization; (c) royalty payments are for four years with
the breakeven level at US$0.58 million (in constant 1976 US dollars) an-
nually per successful project; (d) a uniform number of projects are fin-
anced each year (for Case I-12 projects and for Case II-9 projects; and
US dollar annual inflation rates of 8% during 1976, 7.5% during 1977-79,
and 7% during 1980-85.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 6
foreign exchange. For Case II, the requirement will be less, at US$57
million over eight years including US$33 million in foreign exchange. 1/
11.       However, should the royalty payments be set at twice the break-
even level, then the program will be financially self-supporting after six
years. The total budgetary support from the Government for Case I will
then be US$60 million equivalent and for Case II, US$46 million in current
terms respectively. 2/ Table 8 shows the budgetary support for Case III.
Compared to Case II the effect of a slower build-up of projects, starting at
three then increasing to 12 and finally stabilizing at nine projects per year,
is to reduce the budgetary support over the initial five year period by about
US$3 million, from US$40 to US$37 million (in current terms). However, Case
III will require one more year to become self-sufficient compared to Case II.
12.       The typical industrial royalty rate in Spain is 3 to 5% of the gross
revenues for a period of four to five years. Assuming a royalty rate of 4% over
four years for the successful projects, the royalty payment level of US$0.58
million annually per project (the breakeven amount) would imply an average
annual gross revenue level of about US$14 million for each successful project
or about 7 times the cost of the three projects needed to generate one success-
ful project. A royalty payment of US$1.16 million annually (twice the break-
even amount), would imply an average yearly gross revenue level of US$29
million per successful project or about 13 times the cost of three projects.
The revenue may originate from one or more commercial ventures depending on
the number of companies or groups who commercialize the results of a parti-
cular project. This range of gross revenue levels, from about 7 to 13 times
the statistical expected cost of the RD&E project, is in line with the ratio
of 10 generally used as a rule of thumb in the industry. 3/ Thus, it is
reasonable for the RD&E Unit to expect royalty payments of about 1.5 times
1/   In terms of constant 1976 US dollars, the total support for Case I is
US$56 million and for Case II, US$42 million over eight years.
2/   In constant 1976 dollars, the total support would be US$47 million
for Case I and US$35 million for Case II spread over six years.
3/   This is actually a rough definition of a commercially successful R&D
project. The ratio is related to the payback period concept. Using
the payback period concept as a measure of commercial feasibility, a
viable R&D project can be defined as one that would generate royalty
payments (or its equivalent) such that over say 2 to 3 years, it will
pay back the statistical expected cost of the effort (i.e. - the
average project cost divided by the probability of success). The
reciprocal of the product of the payback period and the royalty rate
is the ratio indicated above. The arithmetic relationship is:
1 = G = 10
Tr    C/P
Where:  T = payback period (2.5 years)   C = average cost per R&D project
r = royalty rate (0.04)            P = probability of success
G = annual gross revenue from
successful project



ANNEX 3.4
Page 7
the breakeven level. This would indicate a budget range of US$45 million (Case
II) to US$60 million (Case I) spread over six or seven years.
13.       Given that the Government budgetary program would preferably be
expressed over or close to the four-year (1976-1979) period covered by the
Fourth National Development Plan, and that a six or seven-year budget may be
extraordinarily long by bureaucratic standards, it is suggested that a
five-year (1977-1981) budget be initially established for the RD&D Unit.
The funding requirement during the first five-year period is independent of
the royalty payment assumption and depends only on the number of projects to
be financed each year (9 to 12). The minimum program size should be about
9 projects per year (Case II), and would require a budget of US$40 million
over five years, including about US$20 million in foreign exchange. The need
for a supplementary budget to cover the sixth year and possibly the seventh
year as well, albeit at a much reduced level, must be recognized and planned
for. The budget for Case II over a five-year period is shown below:
In Millions of Pesetas-/ In Millions of US Dollars
Foreign   Local              Foreign  Local
Exchange Currency Total Exchange Currency Total
Cost    Cost      Cost      Cost    Cost      Cost
1. Project Costs (9 per year)
Capital Costs                 924      251    1,175    14.0       3.8      17.8
Operating Costs               119       713      832      1.8    10.8      12.6
Sub-Total             1,043       964    2,007    15.8    14.6        30.4
2. Administrative Costs              -        99        99       -      1.5       1.5
Base Cost Estimate /3         1,043    1,063    2,106    15.8    16.1        31.9
3. Provision for Price
Escalation (26%)              264      290       554      4.0     4.4       8.4
Total Cost            1,307    1,353    2,660    19.8    20.5         40.3
/1   See the footnote in the Table of para. 10 for assumptions.
/2   An exchange rate of Pta 66 = US$1.00 is used.
/3   In 1976 prices or constant 1976 US dollars.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 8
C.   Determining a Minimum Critical Effort - A Macro Approach
14.       As used in this report, the concept of a target or desirable level
of national R&D expenditure has a normative meaning. It assumes both capacity
to efficiently utilize funds for R&D (e.g., availability of projects and R&D
personnel) as well as ability to effectively transform the results of the R&D
activities into economic benefits - such as competitive advantage or expansion
of output and markets. Generally, it would be difficult to quantitatively
justify the level of national R&D expenditure on the basis of an analytical
evaluation of the capacity to implement projects and ability to convert the
results into economic benefits. Such justification can be achieved only in
broad qualitative terms based on general observations about the economic con-
ditions, the competitive environment, the availability of scientific personnel
and similar factors. A normative concept of what should be the level of
national R&D expenditure is important for planning purposes. While estimates
of target R&D levels will vary depending on the person or group analyzing the
problem, and the technique used, the concept itself is useful and the fact
that no single estimate can be derived, but rather a range of values does not
reduce the utility of the concept or those of the different estimates. The
absence of a clear-cut quantitative procedure for determining target R&D
expenditure levels simply forces the analyst to use the results of available
techniques as guidelines that would indicate the order of magnitude rather
than the absolute value of the R&D expenditure.
15.       In the remainder of this annex, the concept of a target R&D expen-
diture level will be used. While a specific number will be mentioned, the
amount should be interpreted more as a guide and gauge of the order of mag-
nitude rather than an absolute recommended value. In addition the two
techniques that will be used to determine the target levels will involve the
use of averages or a trend line (e.g. regression equation). However, this
does not imply that the average or the value indicated by the trend line is
the appropriate target R&D expenditure level for a particular country. There
may be valid reasons for a specific country to spend much more or much less
than the average that the regression equation would imply. Spain, for example,
up to now, has spent less for R&D than what a cross-section analysis of coun-
tries with GNP per capita of US$1,000 or more would indicate. Historically,
this can be justified because of the lower labor cost in Spain and similar
factors which provided Spanish goods the necessary competitive advantage
over foreign made products. But as Spanish wage rates increase and catch
up with the rates of other European countries, and as protection of domestic
industries decrease with Spain's integration into the European economic com-
munity, competitive advantage will have to depend more on technology. For
this reason it is valid to expect that Spain's future R&D expenditure level
should be around the average of what the developed or advanced developing
countries are spending corresponding to their level of GNP per capita. The
analysis in Sub-Section C-1 assumes that the average or value indicated by
the regression equation will be appropriate for Spain.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 9
16.       In this section a rough estimate of the budget for the proposed
RD&E program will be derived on the basis of the projected gap between a
target or desirable national level of R&D expenditure and the level that
would be attained if existing trends are simply extrapolated into the future.
For the proposed RD&E program to be a meaningful national program, it must
contribute significantly towards closing the gap. Sub-Section C-1 describes
two alternative approaches towards establishing a target R&D expenditure
level. The two approaches yield different target levels which are used to
define a range of acceptable values and the arithmetic average is then used
as the target level of R&D expenditure.
17.       In Sub-Section C-2, two methods are used to extrapolate past R&D
expenditure trends into the future. Again, the average of the two results
is taken as the level that is likely to be attained if no major new R&D
effort is undertaken and only existing programs and trends are considered.
Finally in Sub-Section C-3, the R&D expenditure gap between the target level
and the extrapolated level is proposed to be partially filled by the proposed
program and alternative program budgets are considered. These alternative
budgets are then reconciled or compared with the one developed under the
micro-approach.
1. Target Levels for R&D Expenditures
18.       The first method (Method I) for establishing target levels of R&D
expenditures for Spain will be based on the assumption that the R&D expendi-
ture per economically active person (per unit of labor in the economy) is
dependent on the general economic wealth of the country as measured by the
per capita GNP. Countries with higher GNP per capita can not only save more
for investments in capital, but can obviously spend more for R&D as well,
which to a significant degree, leads to new capital investments. Furthermore,
these countries have the purchasing power to absorb the output of R&D and
new capital investments, thus making such investments commercially viable.
19.       To establish a target level for R&D expenditures, a cross-section
analysis of 19 countries with per capita GNP in excess of US$1,000 during
1971 (based on the latest OECD publication) is undertaken in Table 9. The
functional form used for the relationship between GNP per capita and the R&D
expenditure per economically active person is the constant elasticity model.
This model states that for a given change in GNP per capita, say 1%, there
is a corresponding constant change in R&D expenditure per active person, say
b% for example where b is larger than zero. The constant elasticity model is
given by:
R = a Gb          Where  R = R&D expenditure per active person.
G = GNP per capita.
b = A constant. This is the elasticity
of R&D expenditure.
a = another constant.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 10
The elasticity can be shown by taking the derivative and then dividing by
the original equation which yields:
dR    =  b  dG
R            G
Thus, a change of say 1% in GNP per capita (dG = 0.01) will result in a change
of b% in R (dR = 0.01 times b).                G
20.       The value of the elasticity has some significance.  For values of
b greater than zero but less than one, proportionately less is spent on R&D
per active person the higher the per capita GNP. That is, if GNP per capita
increased by 1%, R&D expenditure per active person increases by less than 1%.
Similarly if the elasticity is greater than one, 1/ then R&D expenditure per
active person changes at a faster rate than the change in per capita GNP.
And in this case, when the labor participation rate (i.e. proportion of the
population that is economically active) is not changing, then R&D expendi-
tures as a proportion of GNP will increase the higher the per capita GNP level.
Data on R&D expenditures indicates that the higher the per capita GNP level,
the larger the proportion of GNP spent on R&D. This indicates that an elas-
ticity greater than one should be expected.
21.       The least squares estimates for the constants a and b in the model
are shown in Table 9. 2/ The values are:
b = 2.174
a = 0.00000252
1/   The case when b = I simply means that R = aG implying that R&D expendi-
tures per active person is a fixed proportion of per capita GNP, what-
ever the GNP per capita level.
2/   The logarithmic form of the model is:
log R = log a + b log G and has the statistical linear form (for
correlation analysis) of:
Y = A + B X
x
Should Y and X be assumed to be bivariate normal random variables, then
the correlation coefficient r (in this case r = 0.84) can be tested for
significance. The test in Table 9 indicates the correlation to be very
strong and significant at the 0.002 level of confidence (that is, there
is a less than 0.2% chance that the true value of r is zero).



ANNEX 3.4
Page 11
These constants, being derived for 1971 data, are applied in terms of
constant 1971 US dollars and the R&D expenditures derived from the corre-
lation model must be converted to constant 1976 US dollars which is used
throughout this annex as the base monetary measure. For countries with GNP
per capita (during 1971) in excess of US$1,000, the regression equation
between GNP per capita and R&D expenditure per active person indicate that for
a 1% increase in GNP per capita there is an expected or average increase of
2.17% in R&D expenditure per active person.
22.       Another method (Method II) of establishing a target level of R&D
expenditures is to select several countries whose 1971 level of GNP per
capita will be approximated by Spain's projected per capita GNP in 1980
(all expressed in constant 1976 US dollars) and then use the average propor-
tion of GNP spent on R&D expenditures by these countries as the target level
for Spain by 1980. The approach is based on the assumption that economic
growth follows certain patterns and that R&D expenditures, expressed as a
percentage of GNP, is one of such patterns. Thus, the combined or average
experience of advanced developing or developed countries can be used as a
guide to establish norms or likely patterns to be followed, on the average,
by developing countries as they progress along the development path. Spain's
projected 1980 GNP per capita is about US$3,230 in constant 1976 US dollars
which would correspond to a GNP per capita of about US$1,820 in constant 1971
US dollars (Table 9). Eight countries with 1971 GNP per capita ranging
from US$1,400 to US$2,600 (in 1971 constant US dollars) are shown below.
However, the last three: Japan, The Netherlands and the United Kingdom,
have been excluded in calculating the average percentage of GNP spent on
R&D that will be used as a norm for Spain. The industrial experience, high
level of technology and unusually high percentage of GNP devoted to R&D
expenditures in these countries are not likely to be followed by Spain and
hence cannot be used as a guide for that country.
1971                 1971 GNP per Capita /
R&D Expenditure      In Constant         In Constant
Country                as % of GNP       1971 US Dollars   1976 US Dollars
1. Austria                     0.6 /2             2,010 /2            3,810
2. Finland                     0.8                2,550               4,520
3. Iceland                     0.5                2,480               4,400
4. Ireland                     0.7                1.510               2,680
5. Italy                       0.9                1,860               3,300
Average (1 to 5)            0.7                2,082               3,742
6. Japan                       1.6                2,130               3,780
7. Netherlands                 2.0                2,020               3,580
8. United Kingdom              2.3 /2             2,270 /2            4,030
Average (1 to 8)            1.2                2,104               3,762
/1   Rounded to the nearest $10 except for the average.
7T   Data is for 1970 (in 1970 US dollars instead of 1971).



ANNEX 3.4
Page 12
23.       By 1980, Spain's R&D expenditures ought to be about 0.7% of its
GNP. A higher proportion would be required if Spain wishes to follow more
closely the type of industrial development experienced by Japan or the
United Kingdom. The value of 0.7% of GNP will be used as the norm that
Spain might attempt to achieve by 1980. Since R&D expenditures accounted
for 0.33% of GNP during 1974, the target for 1980 could be achieved if the
percentage of GNP spent for R&D grows at an annual rate of about 13.4%
from 1975 up to 1980. This annual growth rate is used to establish the
levels of R&D expenditures under Method II. The results of the two methods
and the average of the two results are shown below:
Spain - Target Levels for R&D Expenditures
(In Millions of Constant 1976 US Dollars)
Method I               Method II                 Average
As % of                As % of                  As % of
Year        GNP       Amount        GNP        Amount        GNP       Amount
Actual
1974        0.33      344.6         0.33       344.6         0.33      344.6
Target
1975        0.57      604.5         0.37       394.7         0.47      499.6
1976        0.57      616.8         0.42       454.6         0.49      535.7
1977        0.58      650.2         0.48       535.3         0.53      592.8
1978        0.60      701.2         0.55       637.8         0.58      669.5
1979        0.63      770.7         0.62       754.8         0.63      762.8
1980        0.66      847.4         0.70       894.8         0.68      871.1
24.       The two methods indicate rather close results for 1979 and 1980
but show that during 1975-1978 Spain cannot be expected to match the targets
set by Method I on the basis of existing trends and programs. Some major
intervention by the Government to increase R&D expenditure is needed during
1976-1978 because Spain at present is very much below the norm (in terms of
R&D expenditures) that Method I implies for the group of countries with GNP
per capita in excess of US$1,000 (in constant 1971 US dollars equivalent
to US$1,800 in constant 1976 US dollars). This aspect is discussed more
fully in paras 28 and 29.
2. Extrapolation of Past R&D Expenditure Trends into the Future
25.       Two methods are used to extrapolate existing R&D expenditure
trends into the future. The first method (Method I, Table 10) assumes
that the proportion of GNP spent on R&D will continue to grow during 1975-
1980 at the same average rate experienced during 1969-1974. In 1969 R&D
expenditure was about 0.22% of GNP; by 1974 the proportion had increased



ANNEX 3.4
Page 13
to 0.33% of GNP. The least squares estimate 1/ of the constant (or average)
growth rate during 1969-1974 is 9% annually. That is, R&D expenditures on
a trend line basis for the period 1969-1974 increased at least nine percen-
tage points higher than the annual growth rate of GNP. For example, if GNP
increased by 1%, R&D expenditures increased by 10% and if GNP increased by
10%, R&D expenditures increased by almost 20%.
26.       The second method is also based on a constant growth rate model
but in this case, the assumption is that the value (in real terms) of R&D
expenditures will grow during 1975-1980 at the same average annual growth
rate (or trend line) experienced during 1969-1974. That is, R&D expenditures
are assumed to have a momentum of their own, and will grow at a rate inde-
pendent of the general GNP performance or growth rate. This second approach
(Method II, Table 11), yields an annual growth rate in real terms of 16%
annually for R&D expenditures during 1969-1974.
1/   The constant growth rate model has the form:
=P  (l + r)   where
T = Year index or time period (1, 2, ....N)
P = The initial value at T = 0
0
r(100)% = The constant annual growth rate
PT= The value at year T
The least squares estimates for P and r are obtained indirectly through
the linear logarithmic regression equation:  log PT = log P  + T log (l+r)
which is of the form Y  = A + B X.
X
The constant growth rate model is a superior method of estimating the
average (or trend line) annual growth rate during a given period compared
to the usual approach of taking the initial and final values and calcu-
lating the annual growth rate that would lead from the initial to the
final value (in this case 8.5%, close to the 9% result of the constant
growth rate model). This usual approach is very sensitive to the end
points chosen and could easily give very different results when other end
points are used. In addition, it ignores all information contained in
the intervening years.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 14
27.       The results of the two methods, and the average of the two results
are summarized below:
Spain - Extrapolated R&D Expenditures
(In Millions of Constant 1976 US Dollars)
Method I               Method II                 Average
As % of                  As % of                 As % of
Year             GNP       Amount         GNP       Amount        GNP        Amount
Actual
1974             0.33      344.6          0.33      344.6         0.33       344.6
Extrapolated
1975             0.37      394.7         0.39       416.6         0.38       405.6
1976             0.41       443.8        0.45       483.2         0.43       463.5
1977             0.45      501.8          0.50      560.7         0.48       531.2
1978             0.48      556.0          0.56      650.3         0.52       603.4
1979             0.53      645.4          0.62      754.3         0.57       699.8
1980             0.58       741.4         0.68      874.8         0.63       808.1
28.       The difference in the results of Method I and Method II is largely
due to the reduced GNP growth rate expected for 1975 and 1976 as a conse-
quence of the recession afflicting Europe and the slow recovery projected
over the following two years (1976-1977). During 1975 Spain's GNP is esti-
mated to have grown by only 1.1% in real terms and the expectation for 1976 is
a modest growth rate of about 1.5% and then gradually increasing to an annual
growth rate of 5% by 1979.  The low growth rates for GNP during 1975 and
1976 depress the value of the extrapolated R&D expenditure under Method I.
Of the two methods, the second is clearly optimistic since it is unlikely
that the lower GNP growth rates will have no decelerating effect on the
growth trend of R&D expenditures. The results of Method II can then be
taken as an upper limit on the likely values of R&D expenditures during
the remainder of the 1970's on the basis of existing trends. Both methods
indicate that by 1980, R&D expenditures will range from about 0.58% to 0.68%
of GNP. This is a significant improvement over the 0.33% actually achieved
during 1974, but would still fall short of the target or desired levels
developed in Sub-Section C-1. The average of Method I and Method II, while
probably still on the high side, will be taken as the extrapolated level
of R&D expenditures during 1976-1980.
3. The R&D Expenditure Gap and the Role for the Proposed Program
29.       The R&D expenditure levels for Spain derived in Sub-Section C-1
and the extrapolated values determined in Sub-Section C-2 are shown below
for comparison.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 15
Spain - R&D Expenditures
(In Millions of Constant 1976 US Dollars)
Target Values                    Extrapolated Values
Average Target                        Average Ext.
Method  Method  As % of             Method  Method  As % of
Year      I        II       GNP    Amount      I        II      GNP    Amount
Actual
1973     344.6   344.6    0.33   344.6        344.6   344.6    0.33   344.6
Target or
Extrapolated
1975     604.5   394.7    0.47   499.6        394.7   416.6    0.38   405.6
1976     616.8   454.6    0.49   535.7        443.8   483.2    0.43   463.5
1977     650.2   535.3    0.53   592.8        501.8   560.7    0.48   531.2
1978     701.2   637.8    0.58   669.5        556.6   650.3    0.52   603.4
1979     770.7   754.8    0.63   762.8        645.4   754.3    0.57   699.8
1980     847.4   894.8    0.68   871.1        741.4   874.8    0.63   808.1
30.       The first method of setting target R&D expenditure levels indi-
cate a much higher value during 1975-1979 compared to the second method.
This is because the latter is concerned only with reaching a target of
US$895 million by 1980 (or 0.7% of GNP) and ignores the fact that Spain
spent proportionately much less during 1974 than is indicated by the cross-
section analysis of several countries. The first method, however, does take
this fact into account and shows that Spain by now (1975 and 1976) should
normally, for its level of income, devote close to 0.6% of GNP for R&D
expenditures.
31.       As mentioned in para.26, it is probably too optimistic to expect
R&D expenditures to grow at an annual rate of 16% during 1975-1980. But
should this be achieved Spain would be at the norm by 1980 suggested by
the cross-section analysis (about 0.7% of GNP spent on R&D). Based on the
average target and extrapolated values, however, there will be an R&D expen-
diture gap during 1975 to 1980. The average gap is about US$70 million
annually during this period although the annual value declines to about
US$63 million by 1980. These are shown below:
Spain - R&D Expenditure Gap /1
(In Millions of Constant 1976 US Dollars)
Year       Gap        Year        Gap
1975      94.0        1978        66.1
1976      72.2        1979        63.0
1977      61.6        1980        63.0
Average gap 1975-1980 = $70.0 million/year
/1   Gap between average target and extrapolated values.



ANNEX 3.4
Page 16
32.       The historical base for the extrapolated values is only six years
(1969-74) and correspond to a period of exceptionally rapid economic growth.
Consequently, the extrapolated values may tend to be on the high side, in-
dicating an expenditure gap in 1980, for example, of just about 8% of the
target value. Nonetheless, the existing R&D programs are mostly of the
basic research type or the quality control type of industrial R&D which
does not correspond to the type of technological challenge facing Spain
at the moment. The proposed program is designed to channel resources
towards the type of industrial RD&E needed by Spain to be technologically
competitive. Thus, even though the R&D expenditure gap may not be quanti-
tatively large in percentage terms, there is a far more substantial and
serious qualitative gap which the proposed program will attempt to bridge.
33.       The proposed program should be intended to fill a meaningful por-
tion of the gap, especially the larger gap during the next two to three
years. The trend of R&D expenditures indicate that perhaps an initial large
program in the range of $10 to $20 million annually during 1976-1979, followed
by a gradual scaling down to about US$5 to $10 million annually starting 1979
might be a good strategy. However, it is doubtful if the industrial sector
can usefully absorb such sudden large infusion of R&D funds in so short a
time. The R&D program must also consider the availability of potential R&D
projects and the capacity of industry to absorb R&D funds. On this basis, a
program of at least constant magnitude (in real terms) may be preferable,
although consideration must also be given to the alternative of having a
program with an increasing budget starting in 1977 and then gradually declining
after 1980. However, if the program is to fill about 10% of the projected
gap, its budget must be about US$7 million annually during 1977-1980. This
would be satisfied by the annual budget of about US$7 million under Case I (9
projects per year) and would be slightly exceeded by the US$9 million annually
under Case II (12 projects per year) in constant 1976 US dollars (Table
6).
34.       It appears therefore that 9 to 12 projects per year would be a
reasonable level of activity for the program and will require about US$7
to $9 million annually in constant 1976 US dollars.
Industrial Projects Department
April 19, 1977



SPAIN
ITDUSTRIAL RDXE PROJir,T
CAICYT1/ - NUMBER OF R&D
PROJEC'i'S FINANCED AND AVERAGE PROJECT COST
Wumber of R                        N ilumber of R&D                          Cost Estinate&/
Applications                      Projects Approved                In Millions of Current Pesetas
Year    Induistrial  Others    Total       Indus-trial  Others    Total          Average Cost per  Largest   Smallest
__________                        Projects                              Project Approved   Cost           Cost
1968      4o           35         75         15            8         23            16                120           3
1969      51           20         71         19            6         25            12                 5o           1
1970      36           12        1[d          8            1          9            23                 71           7
1971      35           13         48         10            2         12            16                 53           5
1972      32           86        118         30            9         39            30                229           3
1973      17           28         45         12            2         1h            20                 55           4
1974     128           15        143         31           15         h6            23                241           3
1975     12h.            8       132         33            7         4o            38                227           3
s 7 -         NA        15 1       NA            A.i 7 A                   2                 NT
1/ UAlUYL' - Comision Asesora de Investigacion Cientifica Y Technica.
2./ Cost estimate at the time of application for financial support.
Industrial Projects Department
April 18, 1977.



SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
INIJI- SECTORAL R&D EXPENDITURES FOR 1973
In Millions of Current Pesetas                    Persons Employed
Total R&D     Expenditures   Personnel as  Total          Persons with        l with Univ.
Industrial Sector                Expenditure   for Personnel  % of Total    Employed  University Degrees  Degrees
Steel & Metallurgy               211.6          18.4            9%             49           14                28%
Mining                           419.3         353.8           84            1010          183                18
Refining & Petrochemicals        155.1           78.1          50             261           32                12
Chemicals                          7.6           1.2           16               3            2                67
Electricity & Gas                  7.6           2.4           31               4            2                50
Shipbuilding                     152.7          93.5           61             216           50                23
Mechanical Industries             55.4           35.7          64             276            77               28
Motor Vehicles                   524.2         290.9           55             796           66                  8
Aircraft & Airtransport          162.2           76.4          47             211           34                16
Transport                          7.1            3.0          42               5             3               60
Information Systems                1.8           1.4           78               3            2                67
Food                               8.o           5.2           65              13             7               54
Engineering & Projects            13.8            9.6          70              26           15                 58
Total                     1,726.4         969.6           56            2883          487                17
Average annual personnel cost   ................................... 336,316 Pta (US$5,849)/person employed.
Average total R&D annual expenditure      .......   ........        ....... 598,821 Pta (US$10,414)/person employed.
1/  INI - Instituto Nacional de Industria                                                                           FA
Industrial Projects Department
February 2, 1976



ANNEX 3.4
Table 3
ND)USTRIA4 RDcE PROJECT
RD&E Unit - Average Cost Structure of Projects
Average_Project Cost - Thousands of Constant 1976 US$
Foreign     Domestic
Exchange    Resource    Total
Cost        Cost         Cost     Percentage
Operating Expenses
a. Scientific Personnel                15         135         150         20
2/
b.  Other Personnel                     0          1N10       110         1
Sub-Total:  Personnel          15         245         260         35
c. Other Operating Expenses            35          55          90         12
Total Operating Expenses       50         300         350         47
Capital Costs
a. Equipment                          290          30         320         43
b.  Erection                           15           30         45          6
c. Land, Buildings and Others           5          25          30          4
Total Capital Cost            310          o5         395         53
Total Project Cost                       360          385        745        100
Tn Percent                            8%          52%         ltX%
Capital Cost/Person Employed          62          17           79
Total Project Cost/Man-year
employed                            24          26           50
1/ Two persons at US$25,o00 each anmually for three years.
2/ Three persons at US$12,000 each annually for three years.
Tndustrial Projects Department
April 18, 1977.



SPAIN
,0TIE5 3.4
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT                                                      Table h
PRIVATE SECTOR R&D EXPENDITURES 1971 AND 1972
In Millions of Current Pesetas
1971                                           1972
Total Private Sector         Manufacturing           Total Private Sector           Manufacturing
Industries Sector                                     Industries Sector
Amount          %             Amount          %      Amount           %             Amount          %
A.  Extramural Expenditures                              424.7           11             417.9          12      463.9            9             453.5          10
B.  Intramural Expenditures                             3512.3          89            3098.1          88      4498.4          91            3941.5           90
Total (A+B) Expenditures                      3937.0         100            3516.0         100     4962.3          100            4395.0         100
C.  Private Sector (A+B) as % of Total
National R&D Expenditures                        -             46              -             41        -             48              -             42
D. Details of Intramural (B) Expenditures
1.  Current Expenses
a.  Scientific Personnel                         990.7          28             828.6          26      1244.9          28            1056.0           27
b.  Other Personnel                             1226.6          35            1071.3          35      1570.4          35            1391.2           35
Sub-Total O?ersonnel)                         2217.3          63            1899.9          61      2815.3          63            2447.2          62
c.  Other Current Expenses                       671.0          19             610.6          20       929.2          20             804.4           20
Total Current Expenses                        2888.3          82            2510.5          81      3744.5          83            3251.6           82
2.  Capital Expenses
a.  Equipment                                    384.9          11             360.5           12      528.9           12             475.2          12
b.  Erection & Other Services                    130.6           4              125.8           4      111.7            2             107.1           3
c.  Land, Buildings and Others                   108.5           3             101.3            3      113.3            3             107.6           3
Total Capital Expenses                         624.0          18             587.6          19       753.9          17              689.9          18
Total Intramural Expenses                     3512.3         100            3098.1         100      4498.4         100             3941.5         100
E. Number Employed: Full-Time Equivalent
a.  Scientific Personnel                            1958             26            1755            26      1747            24            1637            24
b.  Other Personnel                                 5551             74            5035            74      5663            76            5123             76
Total Full-Time Equivalent                    7509           100            6790           100      7460            100            6760           100
c.  Intramural (B) Expenditures per
Full-Time Equivalent                            0.47           100            0.47            100     0.60            100            0.58           100
d.  Current Expenditures per
Full-Time Equivalent                            0.39            82            0.38             81     0.50             83            0.48            82
e.  Capital Expenditures per
Pull-Time Equivalent                            0.08             18           0.09             19     0.10             17            0.10            18
Industrial Projects Department
February 4, 1976



SPAIN                                   ANNEX 3.4
Table 5
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJiCT
R&D EXPENDITURE/EMPLOYMENT RATI0-/
YEAR
1973    1974
1.   Private (Industrial) Sector
a. Total R&D Expenditure in Millions of
current Pesetas                                     6,3h6.0   8,178.0
b.  Total Employed in R&D                                2,121     2,363
Ave. Expenditure per Person Employed:
i.  In Millions of Current Peseta                         2.99    3.46
ii.  In Thousands of Current US Dollars                   52.0    60.0
2.   Public Sector & Universities
a.  Iotal R&D Expenditure in Millions of
current Pesetas                                     6,800.0   8,000.0
b.  Total Employed in R&D                               5,820      6,430
Ave. Expenditure per Person Employed:
i.  In Millions of Current Pesetas                        1.17    1.24
ii. In Thousands of Current US Dollars                    20.3    21.6
3.   Total Private & Public
a.  Total R&D Expenditure in Millions of               13,146.0  16,178.0
current Pesetas
b.  Total Employed                                       7,941     8,793
Ave. Expenditure per Person:
i.  In Millions of Current Pesetas                        1.66    1.8h
ii.  In Thousands of Current US Dollars                   28.9    32.0
1/  Unofficial estimates.  No official R&D statistic exists for 1973 and onwards.
Industrial Projects Department
February 2, 1976



SPAIN                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 6
INDUSTRIAL RD4E PROJECT
ESTIMATED ANNUAL BUDGETARY SUPPORT
FOR THE IT5U PROGRAM - CASE I AND CAEI-1
A.   Assumption I - Breakeven Operations-2
lumber of Projects   Cashflow in Millions of Constant 1976 US Dollars                          -Budgetary Support in Millions of Current US Dollars
Generating          Outflow for    3,,  Inflow from                                                 Case I                           Case 1I
Year         Payments           Projects & Adm.-   Successful Projects  Budgetary Suoport    Annual                    Cumulative       Annual            Cumulative
Year    Case I   Case II        Case I   Case II   Case I          Case II   Case I   Case II         Support          Support           Support          Support
1(1977)    -          -           6.43       4.90        --                    6.43       4.90          6.94               6.94            5.29             5.29
2           -         -            7.84      5.95        --                    7.84        3.95         9.09              16.03            6.90            12.19
3           -         -            9.24      7.00        --                    9.24        7.00        11.55              27.58            8.75            20.94
4           -         -            9.24      7.00         --                   9.24        7.00        12.38              39.96            9.38            30.32
5           -         -            9.24      7.00        -                      .24        7.00        13.21              53.17           10.01            40<33
6(1982)    4          3            9.24      7.00       2.31         1.75      6.93       5.25         10.60              63.77            6.03            48.'36
7           6         6            9.24      7.00       4.62         3.30      4.62        3.50         7.58              71.35            5.74            54.10
8(1984)   12          9            9.24      7.00       6.93         5.25      2.31        1.75         4.04              75.39            3.05            57.16
9          16        12           9.24       7.00       9.24         7.00       -           -            .                  -               -                -
10          16        12          -9.24    - 7.00        9.24         7.00       ---                                                                          -
11          16        12            9.24      7.00       9.24         7.00
12          16        12           9.24       7.00       9,74         '.00       ----
B. ~-ssumption II -Royalty Payments Twice -theBravnLel
1(1977)     -         -          6.43       4.90          -           -        6.4h3      4.90          b .94             6.94             5.29             5.29
2           -         -          7.84        5.95         -           -        7.84       5.95          9.99?             16.03            6.90            12.19
3           -         -          9.24        7.00         -           -        9.24       7.00         11.55             27.58             8.75            20.94
4           -         -          9.24        7.00         -                    9.24       7.00         12.38             39.96             9.38            30.32
5           -         -          9.24        7.00O                             9.24       7.00         13.21             53.17            10.01            40.33
6(1982)    4          3          9.24        7.00        4.62       3.50       4.62       3.50          7.07             60.24             5.36            45.69
7           8         6          9.24        7.00        9.24        7.00       -          -             -               60.24              -45.89
8  12          9         9.24        7.00        13.86      10.54     (4.62)     (.50)         No  t   C a 1 c u I a t e d   NoI Ca1cu           
9          16        12          9,.24      7.00         18.48     14.00      (9. 24)    (7.00)          "
10          16        12          9.24       7.00         18.48    14.00       (9.24)     (7.00)
I11         16        12          9.24        7.00        18.48    14.00       (9.24)     (7.00)          " 
12          16        12          9.24        7.00        18.48    14.00       (9.24)     (7.00)'
I/  Case I - 12 projects supported annually.   Case II - 9 projects supported each year.
2/  Assumptions are:  (a) completed ROAR  projects take 2 additional years to be comsercialized;   (b) royalty payments are for four years; and
(c) at breakeven operations, royalty payments are US$0.58 million annually per successful project. The breakeven royalty payment is
calculated as follows; annual royalty payment = total annual outflow for projects and administration/total Projects generating payments
at steady state period or year 9.
3/  Administrative costs, all in local currency, are estimated as follows (in constant 1976 US dollars) :  (a) senior personnel - 4 0 $25,9000
or 9100,000 annually; other personnel - B 0 $15,000 or $120,000 annually; and (c) operating costs and contingencies $80,000 annually for
a total of M30,000.
Industrial Projects Department
April 18, 1977.



muNE  3.4
SPAIN                                   Table 7
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
DISB1URSE2ENT SCHEDULE & ASSUIED
INrERNATIONAL INFLATION
A.  International Inflation Rate
Annual        Compounded                  Annual         Compounded
Inflation     Rite, %                     Inflation      Rate, %
Year      Rate, %        (Mid-1975 to  Year         Rate, %        (Mid-1976 to
Mid-Year                                  Mid-Year
1975         12               -          1981            7
1976          8               -          1982            7            5
1977         7.r              8          1983            7            64
1978         7.5             16          1984            7            75
1979         7.5             25          1985            7            88
1980         7               34          1986            6            33
B.  Disbursement Schedule Per Project
In Thousands of Constant 1975 US Dollars
Capital     Operating
Year          Costs        Costs          Total
1               395          116          511
2                -           117          117
3                -           117          117
395          350          745
C.  Program Disbursement Schedule For Projects - Case II
Number of     Number         Disbursement in US$ Millions1/
Projects      Completed      In Constant    In Current US Dollars
Year      Started        & Successful  1976 US$    Annual          Cumulative
1 (1977/78   9                           4.60        4.97            4.97
2 (1978/79   9                           5.65        6.55           11.52
3 (1979/80   9                           6.70        8.38           19.90
It (198(1/81   9            3             6.70       8.98           28.88
5 (1981/82   9              3            6.70        9.58           38.46
5-Year  -
Total       45              6           30.35       38.46            -
6 (1982/83)  9              3            6*70       10.25           48.71
7 (1983/84)  9              3            6.70      10.99            59.70
8 (1984185)                              6.70       11.72            71.42
8-Year
Total       72             15           50.45      71.42              -
D.  Foreign Exchange Disbursement Schedule For Projects - Case II
In Millions of Current US Dollars
Foreign Exchange Cost      Domestic Resource Cost
Year          Annual    Cumulative        Arnual       Cumulative
1 (1977/78)    3.17         3.17           1.80           1.80
2 (197E/79)    3.58         6.71           2.97           4.77
3 (1979/80)    4.05        10.80           4.33           9.10
L (1980/81)    4.34        15.14           4.64          13.74
5 (1981/82)    4.63        19,77           4.95          18.69
6 (1982/83)    4.96        24.73           5.29          23.98
(1983/84)    5.31        30,04           5.60         29.66
(198L/85)    5.67        35.71          6.05          35.71
1/  The disbursements are assumed to be at the start of the operating
'r fiscal year (e.g., mid-1977 for operating year 1).
Industrial Projects Department
April 18, 1977.



ANNEX 3.4
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
ESTIMATED BUDGETARY SUPPORT FOR CASE III
(GRADUAL INCREASE IN NUMBER OF PROJECTS)
In Millions of Constant 1976 US Dollars                    In Millions of Current US Dollars
Number of       Number          Number          Outflow for    Inflow from
Projectsl/      Completed F&,  Generatin2       Projects &      Successful,    Budgetary Support                           Budgetary Support
Year            Started -       Successful-    Payments-        Adm. Exp.       Projects -      Annual    Cumulative                     Annual       Cumulative
1 (1977/78        3                               -                .i.53          -              1.53         1.53                        1.65           1.65
2 (1978/79        6               -               -                3.72           -              3.72         5.25                        4.32           5.97
3 (1979/80        9               -               -                5.95           -              5.95        11.20                         7.44         13.41
4 (1980/81       12               1               -                8.19           -              8.19        19.39                        10.97         24.38
5 (1981/82       12               2               -                8.89           -              8.89        28.28                        12.71         37.09
6 (1982/83       12               3               1                9.24          0.58            8.66        36.94                        13.25         50.34
7 (1983/84        9               4               3                7.71          1.75            5.96        42.90                         9.77         60.11
8 (1984185        9               4               6                7.36          3.5Q            3.86        46.76                         6.76         66.87
8-year Total    72               14               -               52.59          5.83           437w                                     66.87            -
9 (1985/86)       9               4              10                7.00          5.83            1.17        47.93                         2.20         69,07
10 (1986/87)       9               3              13                7.00          7.58            (0.58)         -                         (1.15)          -
10-year Total    90               21               -               66.59         19.24           47.35                                     67.92           -
1/ The average is still 9 projects financed each year, just as in Case II.
2/ See footnotes (2) and (3) of Table 6.
3/ Royalty payments at US$0.58 million per successful project (the breakeven level).
Industrial Projects Department
April 18, 1977



ANNEX 3.4
SPADi                            Table 9
DINIJSTRIAL RD&Z PROJECT
DETERMINING TARGET R&D EXPENDITURE LEVELS - METHOD I
(Constant Elasticity Model Based on Cross Section Analysis)
A. Cross-section Data - 1971 (Based on OECD Publications)
Mid-Year    % Economically  R&D Expendi-       GNP per   R&D Expenditure
Population      Active       ture in           Capita    per Active
Country              (millions)  Population       millions of US$  (USGj)   PersonCUS $)
1,/                                                            (G)          (R)
1.  Austriac/             7.39        43.8              77.6             2010         24.0
2.  Belgium               9.71        40.9             363.7             2960         91.6
3.  Canada               21.60        40.4            1145.4             4140        131.3
4.  Denmark-1             4.92        48.3             143.2             3190         60.2
5.  Finland               4.68        47.8              90.9             2550         40.6
6.  France               51.25        42.0            2920.4             3360        135.7
7.  F.R.Germany          61.29        43.8            4499.1             3210        167.6
8.  Greece                8.98        38.3              17.9             1250          5.2
9.  Iceland               0.21        39.8               2.7             2480         32.9
10. Ireland               2.97        37.6              32.8             1510         29.4
11. Italy                54.08        36.1             929.0             1860         47.6
12. Japan               104.66        49.5            4041.0             2130         78.0
13. Netherjinds          13.19        36.4             783.8             2020        163.2
14. Norway-               3.88        40.2             111.6             2860         71.6
15. Spain/               34.00        37.8             122.0             1220          9.5
16. Sweden                8.11        48.9             583.3             4240        147.1
17. Switzerland           6.32        48.4             473.8             3640        154.9
18. United Kingdom-/    55.73         46.2            2596.5             2270        100.8
19. USA                 207.05        42.0           27527.6             5160        316.6
1/ 1970 data
2/  Data from revised figures released by the National Statistics Institute-Spain.
B. Correlation Analysis Model (Constant Elasticity Model)
R = a Gb   or   log R = log a +b log G   which has the form Y = A + BX
C. Least Squares Estimates for A and B
(1)  A =  -5.59468 = (0.40532 - 6.0)
a =  anti log (-5.59468) = 0.00000252
(2)  b =  2.174
The correlation coefficient is r = 0.84. Assuming Y and X are bivariate normal
random variables, the significance test for r is based on the statistic Z which is
approximately distributed as the unit or standard normal random variable.
Z = V     '   ln  (1+r)(1-P)
2          (1-r) (1+P)
where P is the value of the correlation coefficient being tested under the null
hypothesis. For example, if we test whether P = 0, then
Null Hypothesis Ho : P = 0
and the null hypothesis is accepted if Z is less than         where C( is the
confidence level. For this case, Z = 4.88 which is largtr than %,Ca. (3.09)
hence the hypothesis that P = 0 is rejected and it can be concluded that Y and
X are strongly and significantly correlated. ( C.times 100% gives the probability that
P = 0. In this case the Cd used is 0.002).
D. Target R&D Expenditures for Spain
R&D Expenditures in
Active           In Constant 1971 US Dollars   Constant 1976 US $
Year           Population  GNP Per  R&D Expen- R&D Expen-    As % of    Amount
(millions)  Capita   diture per diture           GNP
Active      (millions)
Person
(C)      (R)
Actual
1974           13.52        1,646    14.25        192.7        0.33            309.5
Target
1975           13.68        1,599    23.49        321.4        0.57            604.5
1976           13.85        1,605    23.68        327.9        0.57            6X.8
1977           14.01        1,636    24.67        365.7        0.58            I  .2
1978           14.18        1,684    26.29        372.8        0.66            701.2
1979           14.35        1,749    36.56       409.7        a04 3IU7
190            14.52        1,817    3I.00        450.5        0.64            gffA
1981           14.70        1,888    33.71        495.5        0.69            932.0
Industrial Projects Department
Apr3. 18, 1977



ANNEX 3.4
:able 'C
INWSTRIAL RDkE PROJECT
EXTRAPOLATION OF R&D EXPENDITURE - METHOD I
(Proportion of GNP Spent on R&D Grows at a lonstant Rate)
A.   HISTORICAL DATA
GNP            R&D             GNP
in Billions   Expenditure    Price
of Current    as % of          Deflators        Time
Year      Pesetas        GNP              (1975=1.00)      Variable
1969      2250           0.22            0.5L                1
1970      2562           0.23            0.58                2
1971      2901           0.29            0.62                3
1972      3409           0.30            0.68                h
1973      U129           0.32            0.75                5
197h      4949           0.33            0.86                6
B.   EXTRAPOLATION MODEL (Proportion of GNP Spent on R&D Grows at Constant Rate)
PT Po (1 + r)T                           Where :  T = Number of years.
PO = Base value of R&D expenditure
OR, log PT = log PO + T log (1 + r)                           as % of GNP.
1/                              r(100)% = Constant annual growth rate.
which has the form-':                                    PT = % of GNP spent on R&D at time T.
Y = A  +  B X
C.   LEAST SQUARES ESTIMATES FOR A AND B
(1)  A  =  0.3.201 - 1.0
PO  =  antilog A - 0.205%
(2)  B  =  0.03787
r = (antilog B) - 1.0 = 0.091 or 9.1% = Say 9%
D.   EXTRAPOLATED GNP AND R&D EXPENDITURES
EXTRAPOLATION FORMULA: PT = 0.205 (1.09)T
n C tat975Peta                                 R&D Expenditures in
% AnTnal        GP l        % of GNP  RFD  p7pen-  MillionJ of U  Dollars
Real Increase  Billions    Spent oX) ditures in   -  Cons              Tn C       =ait
Year      T         in GNP          of Pesetas RED         Billions      1575 US$ 2        1976 uS^ 3/
1975      7         1.1%            5818          0.37       21.53          358.8            394.7
1976      8         1.5%            5905          O.41       21h.21         403.5            443.8
1977      9         3.0%            6082          0.h5       27.37          456.2            501.8
1978     10         h.0%            6325          0.48       30.36          506.o            556.6
1979     11         5.0%            6641          0-53       35.20          58S.7            645.4
1980     12         5.0%            6973          0.58       ho.blh         674.0            741.4
1981     13         5.0%            7322          0.63       1,6.13         768.8            845.7
1/  StrictlyP- eang, testatstical linear regression model is Yx = A + BX + E (\ where the El, are independently
distributed random variables (i.e. error terra)with zero mean and unknown variance.  Should the
assumption be made that the Ex are normally distributed, then tests on confidence intervals for
the estimates of A, B and the variance of Ex can be done.
2/ At pta 60 = US$1.00.
3/  Based on international inflation rates in Table 7 (i.e.,10% escalation between mid-1975 and mid-1576).
Industrial Projects Department
April 18, 1977.



SPAIN                                     ANNS  3i4
INDUSTRIAL RD&E PROJECT
EXTRAPOLATION OF R&D EXPENDITURE - METHOD II
(Constant Expenditure Growth Rate Model)
A.  HISTORICAL DATA
R&D Expenditure  GNP Price        R&D Expenditures
in Billions of   Deflators        in Billions of    Time
Year           Current Pesetas  (1975 = 1.00)   Constant 1975       Period
Pesetas
(RT)            (T)
1969             h.95              0.51'          9.17                1
1970             5.95              0.58          10.26                2
1971             8.o1 0.62                       13.77                3
1972            10.31!             0.68          15.21                1
1973            13.15              0.75          17.53                5
197)-  16.18                       0.86          18.81                6
B.   EXTRAPOLATION! MIODEL (Constant E-penditure Grofth Rate)
R T  = Ro (1 + r)T               Whlere: T     Number of years
R 2 = Base value for R&D expenditure
Or                                      in billions of constant 1975
pesetas.
log iT I   log               X0 + T log (1   r)  r(lO0)%    Constant growth rate per year
which has the form!/ Yx - A + BX         RT w RED expenditures in billions
of constant 1975 pesetas at
time period T.
C.   LEAST "SQU.ARM ESTIMATE FOR A AND B
(1) A = 0.90526
Ro = anti log A -8
(2) B = 0.06577
r = (antilogB) - 1.0   0.163 or 16.3%   =  Say 16%
D.  EXTR.POLATMD R&D EXPE1DITURE
RMD Expenditures             In Millions of USDollars
in billions of              In Constant        In Constan-.
Year      T         constant 1975 Pesetas       1975 US$2/          1976 USq3/
1975      7            22.72                        378.7              414.5
1976      8            26.36                        139.3              433.2
1977      9            30.58                        509.7             560.7
1978     10            35J.l7                       591.2              650.3
1979     11            41.1lI                        685.7             75143
1980     12            L7.72                         795.3             87L.;,
1981     13            55.35                         922.5           -O, *.
V/ See footnote (1/) of Table 10.
2/ At Pta 60 = TJSpl.00
I/ Bused on international ietlatior, rates in Table 7 (i.e., 10% escalation between mid-1975
and 1976).
TIdustrial Projects Department
kpril 18, 1977.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
THE RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING UNIT
A.   Structure and Functions
1.        The project under appraisal consists of the establishment of a new
organization initially established within the Spanish Ministry of Industry,
called here the RD&E Unit. The purpose of this organization is to promote
the development by Spanish industry of new products and processes based on
Spanish technology, so as either to develop new product areas which will be
competitive within 5-15 years, or to maintain the competitiveness of exist-
ing industries.
2.        The Unit will accomplish this task by identifying present or fu-
ture market needs which can be filled by products based on technology which
is within the capabilities of Spanish industry, and then working with indus-
try and other appropriate institutions to commission and finance market
studies, development, engineering and, if necessary, research.
3.        While most of the activities will be directed towards larger in-
dustries, some part of its effort will be deliberately oriented towards the
needs of smaller enterprises. There will be no minimum size criterion for
industrial participation in the programs, nor will public sector industry
be favored over the private sector.
4.        In general, the Unit would operate as follows.  It will survey
available technology and resources of Spanish industry, to estimate its
capacity to develop particular products and processes, based on Spanish
technology, that would be competitive in future markets. It would then
select about half a dozen industrial fields of maximum promise for further
research and development work during the next 3-5 years. Such opportuni-
ties are likely to be found in supporting product lines for industries in
which Spain is already strong.
5.        For each field thus selected, the organization would carry out,
with maximum cooperation of industry, detailed studies of potential markets,
and would identify and design product lines and a marketing strategy to
compete in them, using outside expertise, if necessary. It would review
available foreign technologies for design and production, and select those
most appropriate to be obtained under license as part of a strategy intended
to lead to increased reliance on Spanish technology. It would commission
and supervise (but not itself perform) the necessary research, development,
design and engineering studies needed to master these technologies, to
adapt them to Spanish conditions, and to improve them. These studies would



ANNEX 4.1
Page 2
be carried out for the most part in Spanish institutions (including labora-
tories) in the public or private sector, although specialized studies may
be contracted to foreign institutions. In practice, most of the work would
probably be carried out in industrial firms. The Unit would work with
Spanish industries and government agencies that are potential markets for
the new products, to draw up procurement standards which the industry can
aspire to meet. It would work out an investment strategy in cooperation
with appropriate financial institutions.
6.        The Unit would also examine government policies that relate to
the development of these new industries and product lines, and would recom-
mend to the government possible policy changes needed to stimulate the devel-
opment of the industries selected. These policy measures, however, should
not be overly protectionist. Specifically, borders should not be closed to
competing products or technologies from abroad, nor should protective tar-
iffs be excessive or maintained for unduly long periods. Otherwise, it
will be very difficult to insure the competitiveness of the new Spanish
technologies to be promoted by the program. It would, if appropriate, esti-
mate the needs for technical and management personnel in the areas selected,
and would cooperate with educational institutions to develop appropriate cur-
ricula and training programs. It would also foster the formation of profes-
sional or business organizations needed to promote communication among par-
ticipants in the program.
7.        The success of this project hinges on the quality of the staff
of the RD&E Unit, the strength and flexibility of its organization, and the
long-term stability of its financial arrangements. There must be continuous
and open discussion with industry, with the rest of the government, and with
experts in relevant fields of busines and technology. The project is in
the nature of an experiment, and its progress will be regularly evaluated
by the IMinistry of Industry and the results of this evaluation reported to
the Bank.
8.        Ideally, the RD&E Unit would be an autonomous organization from
the beginning, since this status would enable it to receive income from
sources other than the ministry budget, for example, by sales or licensing
of technology. However, it is apparently not possible to obtain the neces-
sary law from the Spanish Cortes in time for the RD&E Unit to begin opera-
tions during calendar year 1977. For this reason, and since the Unit will
not be receiving outside income for the first few years of its existence in
any case, the Unit will be organized initially as a servicio publico cen-
tralizado sin personalidad juridica. It will be reconstituted as an auto-
nomous organization as soon as practicable, and in any case within two years
of its establishment. The Unit will be authorized to employ a large number
of its staff on a temporary and/or consulting basis, and to hire outside
consultants and consulting firms (Spanish or foreign) as it sees fit. It
would not be bound by the salary structures or other procedures and rules of
the Spanish civil service.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 3
9.        The Unit is to be initially assured of financing for the first
4 years of its work, corresponding to the four years of the IVth Develop-
ment Plan. This should provide a sufficient running-in period to enable
it to show first results. Its activities will be monitored during this
period, and a full evaluation made by the Ministry of Industry every two
years. This first financing will probably come exclusively from govern-
ment budgetary allocations, assisted by the initial World Bank financing.
However, to ensure requisite interest in the activities of the Unit from
industry, it will be an explicit objective to attract industrial coopera-
tive funding for its projects within two years, i.e. by the time it achieves
the status of an autonomous organization. This funding should, if possible,
extend not only to specific projects but also to the core work of the Unit.
It should be the goal of the project that the Unit's outside income should
increase to the point that the government support needed should level off
after about 5 years and hopefully decline as the organization and the pro-
grams achieve self-sufficiency. In other words, income from sale of patents
and royalties plus industrial cooperative funding should cover all expenses.
These are ambitious goals but are worth striving for.
10.       The RD&E Unit would report to the Director-General for Industrial
Promotion and Technology of the Ministry of Industry. Its structure con-
sists of a Managing Director, a staff, a Board of Directors, and a number
of other committees and task forces. The staff would be subdivided into a
central support group and a number of groups for the identification of proj-
ects. Full studies of prospective new product areas would be carried out
by ad hoc task forces on contract.
11.       The Unit would have a small head office in Madrid, but would not
create any physical research and development facilities of its own. The
elements of the Unit as it is presently conceived are explained below. In
practice, the organization could be varied at the discretion of the Managing
Director. Major changes in organization, functioning, and personnel will be
discussed with the Bank.
B.   Administration
12.       The Managing Director will be recruited from private industry and
will be paid sufficient salary to attract a man of outstanding qualifications
comparable to those of the managing director of a firm in private industry.
He will report to the Director-General for Industrial Promotion and Tech-
nology of the Ministry of Industry. He shall only be removed for substan-
tive failure to carry out the programs. This provision is specifically in-
tended to ensure the continuity of the management through possible changes
in the Ministry of Industry and the Directorate-General of Industrial Pro-
motion and Technology. The Managing Director will be in charge of all opera-
tional activities, and will have authority to hire and fire members of the
staff, to launch and terminate studies, to allocate the budget to projects,
to authorize contracts for outside research activities, and to approve ar-
rangements for participation of industry. The Managing Director will be
assisted by appropriate administrative staff including a deputy and by such
outside technical assistance as may be appropriate.



ANNEX 4.1
Page 4
13.       The staff will consist of:
(a) A central support staff, consisting of experts in
technologically oriented market forecasting, project
appraisal, promotion of new technologies to industry,
and the management of new product and process devel-
opment. This staff will normally be on permanent
assignment with the RD&E Unit.
(b) Ad hoc task forces for projects, specialized in par-
ticular areas -- e.g. electronics, engineering goods,
etc., and consisting largely of specialists from
industry recruited for 1-3 year periods. A typical
task force would consist of experts in market fore-
casting, produce or process technology, and manage-
ment of engineering, development, and research,
headed by a Group Leader who will be responsible
for obtaining support from industry. The Group
Leader will report directly to the Managing
Director.
(c) A Monitor will be appointed from the staff to super-
vise the work of each task force on behalf of the
Managing Director.
(d) A qualified accountant, satisfactory to the Bank,
will review all invoices submitted for payment by
the Bank.
14.       Task Forces:  The task forces will be formed by drawing experts
from industry, universities, research organizations, consulting firms, and
other appropriate sources, for terms ranging from a few months to the life
of the task force. The task forces will not form part of the RD&E Unit but
will be independent bodies on contract, in order to maintain a flexible
staffing pattern. The task forces will maintain close contact with indus-
try, both prospective purchasers and producers, from the beginning, and
will, if possible, be partially funded by them. They will contract the
actual marketing studies, design work, R&D, etc., to appropriate firms or
institutions; the contracts will be approved by the Managing Director and,
if appropriate, by collaborating industry. The task force will supervise
the work and make periodic progress reports to a monitor from the staff.
As soon as a prototype is ready, if not before, the task force will seek
to find partners in industry who are willing to share further development
costs in order to acquire the know-how after it is fully developed. Once
the first product lines have been successfully launched, the task force
will be dissolved.
15.       The ideas for R&D work and the conduct of the work are not lim-
ited to the above described steps. Private or public firms or institu-
tions may initiate action by proposing specific projects to the RD&E Unit,



ANNEX 4.1
Page 5
which may then create a task force involving the initiating firm or insti-
tution. The latter can undertake the work, on contract, but, if so, the
firm shall not thereby get an exclusive right to the new products or pro-
cesses that emerge.
16.       The Board of Directors will be composed of not more than 10 pro-
minent leaders of Spanish industry, leading research and design engineers,
directors of leading laboratories and consulting firms, and representatives
of the Ministry of Industry. At least half should be from the private sec-
tor. The Director-General for Industrial Promotion and Technology in the
Ministry will be its Chairman. The membership of the Board would change
every few years, by a system of staggered terms. This system would ensure
a continuous flow of ideas between the project unit and other Spanish insti-
tutions concerned with industrial technology.
17.       The Board of Directors will be expected to ensure continuous dia-
logue and cooperation between government, industry and research centers; to
seek development funds from industry; and finally to help in the introduc-
tion of the results of research efforts into Spanish industry. The Board
will also periodically review the progress of the total program.  It will
be encouraged to form associations of industrialists having a general in-
terest in the work in order to improve its overall relations with the pro-
ductive sector.
18.       The Board will also serve to insure continuity in the face of pos-
sible changes in the government or in the climate of industrial policy and
opinion. In particular, the Board must consent to the hiring and firing
of the Managing Director, and will review all contracts calling for the
transfer of technology to industry free of royalty or other payments.
C.   Evolution of a Project of the RD&E Unit
19.       In order to clarify the workings of this project as we presently
conceive them, we shall describe the evolution of a typical project. This
will, of course, vary enormously according to the industrial areas, the
technical nature of the innovations studied, the typical size of the
Spanish firms now in the area, the degree of interest displayed by these
firms, and many other factors.
20.       The first task of the RD&E Unit will be to identify which par-
ticular areas of industrial technology might benefit from an infusion of
technology and hence should be selected for review for consideration for
the possible establishment of an appraisal task force. The criteria used
to determine the importance of a particular industry to Spain include such
parameters as the current size of the industry in Spain; the current size
of the industry worldwide; the rate of growth of each, past and projected;
the leverage that technology induces in the industry; the rate of tech-
nological change and product obsolescence; the import and export position



ANNEX 4.1
Page 6
of the industry; the nature, distribution, size, and apparent aggressive-
ness of firms currently in Spain; the number of firms which are subsidi-
aries of foreign companies; and an assessment of their needs and a con-
sideration of the extent of foreign licenses and dependence upon foreign
know-how. Sufficient evidence should be assembled to indicate that, in
the particular industry under consideration, government assistance to and
collaboration with technological development would stimulate growth. The
reaction of the industry itself should be sought, since its cooperation
will ultimately be essential to the success of the undertaking.
21.       A project begins with the decision of the Managing Director to
review a particular industrial area that seems to offer attractive oppor-
tunities. The review will determine whether prospects justify setting up
a task force in this area and, if it concludes that they do, of formulating
a detailed program of technological and market research. Generally, the
analysis will consist of studies of potential domestic and export markets,
an estimate of Spanish production, managerial and marketing capability to
determine a broad definition of products or processes suggested to exploit
the market potential, including a tentative identification of Spanish firms
that might be interested in participating in the project, and a general de-
termination of marketing, product design, research and development, and
other efforts, with the estimated cost, necessary to fully develop the
ideas identified. Mluch of this may be contracted to outside consultants,
local or foreign. The work will often fall naturally into two stages of
increasing precision: the first stage, to arrive at an initial tentative
recommendation that a task force should indeed be formed; and the second,
to work out the details of its work program.
22.       The initial review is funded by an allocation from the Unit bud-
get. Eventually, one may hope that this will be supplemented by a contri-
bution from interested industries or industrial trade associations, although
this is unlikely until the program is firmly established on the Spanish in-
dustrial scene. The review should seek the maximum involvement of and input
from the industries who produce and use the products being considered, either
individually or through trade associations or other arrangements, as their
support will be critical in subsequent stages of the project.
23.       The task force has the responsibility of carrying out, jointly
with industry, the development and engineering work (and, if necessary,
research), necessary to translate the various studies into prototypes and
pilot plants, and to oversee their transfer to and commercialization by
industry.
24.       It will often be considered desirable to build a program around
an ongoing industry segment. Recognizing that technology alone is only one
of several key elements of a successful business venture, it will be reason-
able to build technology support into an already established, ongoing busi-
ness. Therefore, one of the earliest efforts in the program development
will be the search for an ongoing business activity into which the tech-
nical program can be inserted. The task force will establish a list of



ANNEX 4.1
Page 7
companies that, in their opinion and as a result of their studies, has the
skills necessary to capitalize on the venture, including most importantly the
enthusiasm and desire to do so. The ultimate program, thusly, should be a
joint effort between the selected companies and the task force itself.
It should consist of the technical project which will be supported, includ-
ing such aspects as facilities, manpower, project organization, funding,
timing, phasing, review points and, to the extent possible at this early
stage, a PERT chart. The second portion of the program should be a pros-
pectus by the company or the companies involved which outlines a business
plan contingent upon presumed technical success.
25.       A task force work program may take a wide variety of forms, de-
pending on the products and processes being developed. In some cases of
product development, as for example in many electronics products, the tech-
nical project itself will be a fairly straight-forward, although somewhat
complicated, affair. The objectives at each step along the way will be
generally clearcut. The end objective will be well understood and the
parameters which will measure whether the project is successful or not
at various stages will be clear to everyone concerned. Technology will
be within the state-of-the-art; test and performance data will be unam-
biguous; and project management, while difficult, will be straight-for-
ward. There will, on the other hand, be cases in which the technological
upgrading of an existing industry is essential to the development of a
certain set of new products. For example, it might turn out that the
quality of Spanish electronic components must improve if certain new
product lines are to develop in medical, aircraft, or naval electronics.
In such a case, the objective of the task force could become the appli-
cation of technology to improve the quality and reduce the costs of elec-
tronic components; to capitalize upon inventions and innovations emerging
from such work; and to undertake the development of logical extrapolations
of the original product line into new component areas and, possibly, into
equipment devices and systems.
26.       Development, engineering and research on a given product line
does not, of course, begin and end with the work of the task force and the
commercialization of its results. On the contrary, it is a never-ending pro-
cess, and often the solution to an immediate problem exposes the existence
of two more problems. Even Xerox and Polaroid - to cite two U.S. companies
whose existence arose from dramatically new inventions and products - are
of the size and strength they are today not only because of the elegance
of the initial invention, but also because of the many years of dedicated,
intelligent, hard, technical work that has been constantly applied to im-
prove the product, to reduce its costs, and to increase its applicability
and appeal to a large number of people. The same will be true a fortiori
of the less dramatic innovations stemming from the work of the RD&E Unit.
D.   Institutional Relationships
27.       The arrangements between the RD&E Unit, the task force and indus-
try are a matter of some delicacy, since the terms on which the technology



ANNEX 4.1
Page 8
are made available to industry will depend on the degree of industry's con-
tribution to the product development work. For this reason, such arrange-
ments must be approved by the Board of Directors. While it is impossible
to foresee all the forms which such arrangements might take, the following
general guidelines may be expected to hold.
28.       Technologies or products whose development was funded predomi-
nantly or solely by the RD&E Unit are the property of the RD&E Unit and
will be made available to industry on license. If the industrial contri-
bution was substantial, license fees should be correspondingly reduced.
If two firms or groups of firms contributed in different degrees, the
one contributing more should be given favorable treatment. If the in-
dustrial contribution was predominant, or in other extraordinary circum-
stances, all payments for transfer of technology may be waived at the
discretion of the Board of Directors, after consultation with the Bank.
29.       The problems of measuring the extent and importance of contri-
butions to the development of new projects are complex, since there are
usually many factors to be considered and the extent of contribution is
not necessarily, or best, measured by the amount of funds. Similarly, the
rewards for such efforts, in the form of property rights (e.g. patents) and
licenses to use the new technology (either exclusively or non-exclusively)
are just as complex. No set of generalized rules is sufficient, and with-
out some experience, no exhaustive set can be produced. To the extent that
the new products or processes are not patentable, the problem may be simpler
since any producer can then avail himself of the opportunities, whether he
contributes or not (though he may lack essential "know-how"). If the prod-
uct or process is patentable, the questions of who owns the property right
and on what terms become difficult. Existing Spanish law will supply some
guidance. Additional guidance will have to be worked out later. Since the
main purpose of the project is to develop new products and processes, and
to disseminate them to Spanish industry, the only general rule that can be
stated is that the project shall not lead to conveying exclusive rights un-
reasonably to single owners without a proof of contribution at least equal
to that required in the Spanish law on patent rights.
Industrial Projects Department
Mlarch 1976



ANNEX 4.2
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS: POWERS, INDEPENDENCE, AND LIMITATIONS
IN SPANISH ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
A.   Introduction
1.        One major purpose of the industrial part of this project is to
create an institutional framework within which support for research, develop-
ment, and engineering of new products can be systematized and perpetuated in
the interest of accelerating industrial development. Since the project
creates responsibility for defining specific research tasks leading to new
products and processes, and provides funds for the support of these tasks, a
requirement is set up that there exist an institution that can carry out these
responsibilities. There are a number of these responsibilities and the
exercise of them requires that the institution be able to make decisions about
the allocation of funds, be able to establish task forces that carry out the
work includingcontracting of personnel in the Government, in private industry,
or with foreign partners; the tasks also require that decisions can be made
quickly at times and that no long laborious processes for approval be required.
Because the Government is the borrower of the funds in this project, the
institution that will be created must also be responsive to Government control
and ultimate decision. Consequently, there are a number of alternatives to
be considered between the necessity for effective operational management of
the program and the requirements for the Government to have ultimate control
over disposition of the funds.
2.        Spanish administrative law provides for several kinds of insti-
tutional organizations, ranging from those that are very closely related to
the Government itself or to specific ministries within the Government, to
organizations that have a great deal of autonomy and flexibility in making
decisions, in exercising specific powers granted to the organization, in
acquiring, owning and disposing of real property or property rights and
in acquiring income and spending the funds for operational or investment
purposes.
3.        The basic law setting out the rights, duties and limitations on
these organizations is the Law on the Juridical Regimen of Autonomous State
Entities (26 December, 1958). This law has been codified in the volume
Entidades Estatales Autonomas (Official Bulletin of the State, July 1966).
The summaries and comparisons among alternative organizations presented
below have been derived largely from that volume. The purpose is to make
comparisons among alternatives that may make a difference in the ability to
conduct the affairs of this project effectively. Consequently, emphasis is
given to (a) the independence of the institution, particularly in making
decisions concerning the conduct of the ordinary business which has been



ANNEX 4.2
Page 2
assigned to it; (b) the powers to acquire, own, and dispose of property,
including the ability to contract for resources of all kinds; and (c) the main
limitations on the organizations with particular reference to the difficulties
of changing from one form of organization to another. No attempt is made to
include every legal qualification or nuance in the material presented below.
B.   General Comparison of Types of Organizations
4.        In the law referred to above, there are three main types of admini-
strative organizations: (1) autonomous organizations; (2) centralized public
services without legal personality; and (3) national enterprises. These three
types of organizations are distinct from each other in various respects.
Autonomous organizations are supposed to be those which have, in actual fact,
the following characteristics: (a) they have a legal personality independent
of the State; (b) they have autonomy in conducting the affairs assigned to
them; (c) the funds available for undertaking the specific objectives are
totally or partially outside of the Government budget. They are a creation of
public law rather than private law and must abide by the general administrative
laws established by the Government. The regulation of the autonomous organi-
zations is supposed to be sufficiently flexible to take account of the
variation in circumstances, and the legal interpretation given to the law is
that these organizations will act in the public interest but must have some
freedom and powers to carry out their tasks efficiently. Consequently, they
may be given tax exemptions or freedom with respect to disposition of patents
or other similar types of property.
5.        The centralized public services without legal personality (hereafter
called "public services") do not, as the name specifically says, have separate
legal personality distinct from the State. They may enjoy certain functional
and financial autonomy, usually derived from the fact that they undertake
specific services related to the disposition of funds provided by the State or
administer such funds covering special topics. Their budgets are derived
directly from subventions or subsidies supplied through the State budget.
They are simply specialized facilities of ministries with limited rights and
powers.
6.        National enterprises are regarded as organizations subject to
private law rather than public law, created to undertake directly activities
in industry, commerce, transportation, or similar activities whose functions
are largely a matter of economics. They are created and are subject to the
same kind of laws as are private corporations, and they compete in the market
place on the same basis.
7.        This general characterization already identifies some of the powers
and responsibilities among the three main types of administrative units. Some
of the major differences are described in detail below.



ANNEX 4.2
Page 3
C.   Autonomous Organizat>ins
8.        The administrative laws covering these organizations are most
extensive with respect to the autonomous organizations (e.g. INIA, Port of
Huelva, etc.) since these are regarded as the prototype, with the others
representing divergences in one direction or the other in independence and
degree of power. Autonomous organizations can only be created by law and not
by decree. Thus they must go through the parliamentary processes and must be
approved by the Cortes. The fundamental law creating each organization is
unique, and it must spell out in detail the functions that the organization
will perform and the powers that it has to do so. The law also designates
which ministry in the Government the autonomous organization is responsible to
in the first instance. Ultimately of course control adheres in the Government
itself but frequently the specific minister can act with or without approval
of the Council of Ministers. The fundamental law also must specify the
general basis of their organization including designation of the president,
directors, counsellors, etc. In fact the president and directors will be named
by a separate decree when their rank is at least that of a "director-general"
in the Government. In other cases their designation will be made by the
minister to which they are responsible. The fundamental law must also specify
economic resources that will be assigned to the organizations for carrying
out objectives that have been specified. The law makes it clear that in
creating the autonomous organizations the fundamental law creating it must
specify completely and exactly the functions and objectives and the resources
that will be at the command of the organization. If the fundamental law
has been drafted imperfectly or if it is desired to expand the scope of the
organization or to provide additional resources to the organizations, a new
law is again required. Explanations and modifications in functions or in
funds can not be administrative determinations as represented in a decree.
9.        Although basic changes in the charter of the organizations require a
separate law, special provisions are given to the circumstances of those
organizations that are involved in economic or commercial activities similar
to those of the market place. Commercial and industrial prices, tariffs or
other similar charges can be modified by agreement of the Council of Ministers
with a report to the Minister of Finance and the National Economic Council.
In actual fact the law makes provision that approval of such changes may
be delegated to the minister involved. The law also describes the source of
finance available to the autonomous organization. These consist essentially
of funds or other resources specifically provided in the law creating the
organizations, but also includes income from the use of goods during the
course of operations, income that may be received from other authorized
sources (e.g. including licensing and patents, or subventions received from
the State or from other organizations). The list of sources of finance is an
extensive one and there is no major source that might arise during the course
of this project that, so far as can be seen, is excluded.
10.       The autonomous organization has its own budget which it prepares
within the general budgetary law to the State. It must segregate expenses



ANNEX 4.2
Page 4
according to those that are administrative expenses, those in conduct of its
primary activities and those specifically earmarked for investment. The
budgets of the organizations are submitted through the Ministry of which they
are attached to the Ministry of Finance for information and for later evalua-
tion in accordance with the norms established in the law creating the organi-
zations. The budget may contain sources of income and matching expenditures
from the various sources enumerated above, some of which may be direct Govern-
ment allocations while others are derived independently from the activities of
the organization. Consequently, the Ministry of Finance retains some respon-
sibilities for evaluating the objectives of the autonomous organizations.
11.       Autonomous organizations may be dissolved in any of several ways:
by a law ordering dissolution, by completion of the task or objectives set
forth in the fundamental law creating the organization, or by the completion
of the period of time specified in the fundamental law. The period of time
may be limited or may be extended until a set of objectives has been achieved
which, in actual fact, could mean the perpetuation of the organization for an
indefinite time period.
D.   Public Services
12.       As has been mentioned earlier, these types of units are closely
related to the normal organizations that exist within a Ministry and they do
not have separate legal personality. In Spain they are mainly used to cover
organizations established to dispose of special funds or to administer specific
programs. Public service administrative units may be created by decree and do
not require a separate law themselves; it only requires the approval of the
Council of Ministers and not of the Cortes to create this type of unit.
These units are not subject to the same rules with respect to the objectives
because the chief of the organization must propose to the ministry to which he
is responsible the budget for the particular year. That minister reviews the
budget and upon approving it incorporates it in the total budget submitted for
the ministry. Public service administrative units can, however, make contracts
similar to those of autonomous organizations including contracts for the
employment of personnel outside the civil service system and at rates different
from those paid normal employees of a ministry. Special regulations also
apply to their accountability directly to the Ministry of Finance and to the
types of accounts that these units must prepare. In general a public service
administrative unit is a direct extension of the powers of a minister to
cover the tasks that can be specially described or require the management of
funds that have been specifically provided by law. Their chief differences
from autonomous organizations is that they acquire their funds from the State
budget through the ministry, they cannot own or dispose of property except in
accordance with the general rules of these affairs covering Government owner-
ship of property and they are more limited in the powers to conduct daily
affairs without ministerial approval.
E.   National Enterprises
13.       National enterprises are created and regulated according to private
law covering commerce, civil affairs, and labor relations, and for that



ANNEX 4.2
Page 5
reason are expected to function in the same way as private corporations except
that such enterprises may receive fiscal exemptions, may be subject to special
regulations concerning the scope of their activities, are subject to auditing
and other controls as dictated by the Government, etc. They must be constitu-
ted exactly as "anonymous companies" and generally the participation in their
ownership by the State must be a majority unless the law expressly authorizes
a lesser participation. The largest group of national enterprises in industry
in Spain are those under the control of the Instituto Nacional de Industria
(INI) and a number of interpretations of the law with respect to INI and its
corporations have been made; for example the majority of participation of INI
in an enterprise automatically determines the "national interest" and governs
the rules with respect to fiscal exemptions from taxes. It is unnecessary at
this point to describe the many legal interpretations concerning national
enterprises. It is sufficient to understand that national enterprises,
even though created by the State, operate in much the same way as private
companies and have the same kinds of powers and responsibilities. They are
more removed from State control in normal day-to-day activities than are
autonomous organizations or public service units, primarily because they are
created to engage in industrial and commercial affairs, whereas the other two
may be created for other purposes. However, some autonomous organizations
may be engaged in industrial and commercial activities to only a lesser degree
than a national enterprise. If the primary purpose is the production and sale
of goods and services in the market, the enterprise would be organized as a
national enterprise and not as an autonomous organization.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



ANNEX 4.3
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
INDUSTRIES OF PREFERENTIAL INTEREST
A.   Introduction
1.        As part of its program to stimulate industrial development, the
Government has designated certain industries as being of "preferential in-
terest". Such a designation may be given to anindustry because of the strong
linkages that exist between it and other industries to the extent that it has
serious effects on the performance of those industries, because of the poten-
tial effects upon employment and the development of labor skills, or for any
other reason that can be established to demonstrate its importance to indus-
trial development as a whole. Two of the industries that are chosen for
preference for allocation of funds under this project have been designated as
ones of preferential interest: electronics and the food industries.
2.        When this designation is given to an industry, the firms in the
industry are eligible for special benefits, including tax and other fiscal
exceptions and incentives, credit at preferential terms, accelerated deprecia-
tion, utilization of the powers of eminent domain in order to acquire land for
new installations and/or preferential access to locations in industrial
estates or development poles. Not every one of these benefits is automati-
cally accorded the firms, but usually most of them are so included. Other
special benefits may also be permitted from time to time. In order to be
eligible to receive the above benefits, however, the firms must meet certain
conditions or must agree to pursue certain programs for modernization of their
plants, for expansion of existing facilities to a more efficient scale, and
they may be required to devote funds to research and development, to merge
with other firms to form larger units, or to undertake specified investment
programs. In individual cases other kinds of requirements may be placed upon
the firms and must be fulfilled before they are eligible to receive the
special benefits. In most cases the Minister of Industry has power to make
determination of whether the firms are in compliance with the required provi-
sions or to negotiate with the firms for special plans and programs. He
usually also has the authority to waive the application of some of the provi-
sions providing there are special conditions to justify this.
3.        The basic legislation creating the status of preferential interest
and modifying the fiscal incentives and exemptions is contained in Law 152,
December 2, 1963; Decree 2853, September 8, 1964, which creates the status of
preferential interest; and Decree 2285, July 27, 1964 which modifies the tax
law and extends fiscal incentives in special cases. This basic legislation is
then modified by individual decrees that are established for each of the indus-
tries that are to be given this status. These may be followed by individual



ANNEX 4.3
Page 2
orders of the Ministry of Industry that spell out the details required for
carrying out the decrees. As is indicated below, firms that have complied and
are eligible for the special benefits are potentially in a better position to
expand, to improve their performance (including export performance) or to
undertake research and development programs that will create new products or
improve old ones. However, some of the provisions usually required of the
firms (particularly those requiring them to be of certain minimum size or to
undertake specific investment programs) are not necessarily the ones that will
help to single out firms that have the best proposals for research and develop-
ment, as defined in this project. These provisions may in effect eliminate
from consideration some of the small firms that may have some of the best
ideas and are in a position to make use of funds in this project. Consequen-
tly, while the status of preferential interest can serve to help channel funds
to firms that are in a good position to exploit commercial opportunities
because of new facilities, resources, and investment programs, it is not
proposed to limit the allocation of funds in this project solely to those
firms that have achieved this designation. Nevertheless, it is important to
review the types of special benefits that exist for firms that have achieved
this designation and also to summarize the types of requirements that they
must meet before they are eligible for the special benefits.
B.   Electronics
4.        Decree 2593, July 20, 1974 designates the electronics industry
as being of preferential interest. The decree cites the fact that in the
principal industrial countries these industries have had spectacular growth
and that in particular the data processing field (including manufacture of
computers) has spread to all other industries and affects their production
scheduling, their research, and their management. The decree points out that
the electronics industry in Spain is seriously underdeveloped, lacks programs
for developing its own technology, and frequently uses foreign technology
that is inappropriate and unproductive. The Third Development Plan establi-
shed preferences for certain industries including those involved in advanced
technologies, which includes electronics, and the law of that plan established
the fact that in the event that the development of these industries was
insufficient, incentives or direct Government intervention might be adopted.
For all of these reasons cited by the decree, the electronics industry is
declared one of preferential interest.
5.        The decree defines the types of the activities that are to be
included within the definition of the electronics industry. The definition is
very broad and includes: radio and television development and production;
telecommunications equipment; monitoring and control equipment; instruments
for nuclear plants; scientific measuring apparatus; equipment in the field of
medicine; special equipment for defense; and components and services for
electronics systems.
6.        In order to qualify for the special benefits the firms in the indus-
try must meet a number of specific requirements. Among the most important are
the following:



ANNEX 4.3
Page 3
(1) They must have a minimum size of 200 employees and Ptas. 100
million in fixed assets in electronics but these requirements
are reduced by half for companies that have a majority of
Spanish capital.
(2) They must agree to undertake investments to expand capabilities
in the amount of P 100 million in fixed assets as a minimum.
For new enterprises the minimum investment after the date of
this decree must be P 250 million.
(3) The firms must agree to devote 2% of the value of the annual
sales to applied research.
(4) Those enterprises with a majority of foreign capital must ex-
port 1/3 of their production as a minimum.
(5) In the special case of new firms in the field of data processing
and computers, the ownership of capital by Spaniards must reach
a minimum of 40% within five years and the volume of production
in that same period must be P 1000 million at a minimum.
(6) New enterprises in the data processing field must also have a
minimum social capital of P 400 million. There are special
requirements on investment programs, etc. in certain circum-
stances.
7.        If the firms can meet the above requirements and have programs
approved by the Minister of Industry they are then entitled to special benefits
which include the following:
(1) A reduction up to 95% in various taxes including the taxes on
imports of capital equipment, other customs duties, etc. These
tax exemptions are for five years but may be extended to ten.
(2) They can depreciate the installations and equipment in a period
of five years.
(3) They will have special access to industrial estates, development
poles, etc. as covered in existing legislation.
(4) They will receive preferential terms in the processing of research
and development projects.
(5) The Government will use powers of eminent domain to acquire land
for their installations.
8.        These are quite significant financial incentives and ones which
would give a firm quite extensive benefits and reduce the risks of the invest-
ment.



ANNEX 4.3
Page 4
9.        The Ministry of Industry can determine when the firms have met the
conditions and hence are eligible for the special benefits.
10.       It should be pointed out that the provisions for the minimum size of
fixed assets and/or minimum investment programs are a reflection of the
concern of the Government that the firms in Spain tend too be to small in size
to be efficient or to compete in world markets. While this may be true in a
number of industries in which economies of scale are significant, it has not
been demonstrated in other countries that larger size firms necessarily have
the best research ideas or are the most innovative. Economies of scale
apply to production alone. They do not necessarily apply for the conduct of
research and development for the creating of new processes and products. For
these reasons the funds under this project, while they will be available to
firms meeting the requirements of this decree, will not be limited to them.
It should be said, however, that firms of some minimum size may be in a better
position to exploit new products commercially since they have adequate resour-
ces in order to carry out such programs. Extremely small firms may be at a
disadvantage in the commercial exploitation of a new product, but, new types
of financial intermediaries are being developed in Spain (such as SEFINNOVA)
that will be in a position to invest in new small firms and take greater risks
than is normally the case with the commercial banks.
C.   Food Industries
11.       Decree 3288, November 14, 1974 declared the food industries to be of
preferential interest. The decree was followed by two orders of the Minister
of Industry in June and July of 1975 laying out programs for the merger or
concentration of firms into larger units and establishing minimum conditions
of size and the capacity of enterprises. The decree notes that these indus-
tries are basic to an improvement in the level of living in the country, have
strong links to the agricultural sector, are potentially large exporters of
products, are a means for improving regional distribution of industries, and
are major employers of labor. For all of these reasons the food industries
are declared to be of preferential interest.
12.       Unlike the decree on electronics, no great emphasis is given to the
rapidity of technological change and the need for major research and develop-
ment programs but this decree points to the need for improving the efficiency
of production, including export of food products, and improvement in the
quality of products. The food industries are defined very broadly to include
the canning and freezing of fruit, vegetables, fish and meat; preparation of
precooked and packaged foods; production of protein enriched foods; flour, and
bakeries; condiments and extracts; wines and liquors; vegetable oils and milk
products.
13.       Major emphasis is given to increasing the size of individual enter-
prises to meet a minimum that is regarded as of an efficient scale.  The
decree and the ministerial orders go so far as to prescribe very specific
sizes for individual enterprises. For example, new enterprises in vegetable



ANNEX 4.3
Page 5
canning must have a minimum processing capacity of 10,000 tons per year.
Fruit juices 20,000 tons per year. Bottling plants 5,000 litres per day. The
firms must have sufficient capital of their own to cover 1/3 of the real
investment necessary. The special benefits that enterprises may be eligible
for are the same ones that are listed for the electronics industry including
tax exemption up to 95%, access to power of eminent domain, acelerated depre-
ciation, but in addition they will have special access to official credit
through the Instituto de Credito Oficial.
14.       The main needs in the food industries are for applied research and
development primarily aimed at improving the quality of existing products,
solving specific technical problems associated with their processing, improv-
ing packaging and presentation of the products, etc. There are some problems
related to the creation of new products (at least new to Spain) but these are
probably of less importance than those previously mentioned. Consequently, in
all probability the success ratio of funds devoted to research, development,
and engineering in the food industries is apt to be higher than it is, for
example, in the electronics field where the technology is changing much more
rapidly and the problems themselves are more complex and heterogenous. Efforts
under the current project need not be devoted to such problems as increasing
the scale, stimulating mergers, or similar activities. The technical problems
most often encountered can be rather well defined (e.g. controlling reaction
of citric acid in mixed fruit juices unique to Spain) and therefore should be
relatively easy to attack directly. Nevertheless, it is important to note that
allocation of funds under the current project for applied research development
and engineering will undoubtedly have some side effects that should lead to
some improvement in the structural characteristics of the industry since
results of this applied work will very likely require larger production runs
in order to standardize quality and achieve competitive positions. In this
sense the current project strongly supports the other objectives that the
Government has for improving the competitive position of the industry. As in
the case in electronics, funds under this project will not be allocated solely
to firms that qualify for preferential interest under the current decree
because the specifications of minimum sizes for investment or levels of output
are not necessarily closely correlated with the generation of innovative ideas
for improving quality or creating new variations of products. Firms of a
smaller size than that required to qualify for preferential interest may
generate as many such ideas or more, than the larger scale firms. They may,
however, be less capable of carrying out commercial exploitation of the
products than the larger firms who have access to the resources. The two
types of objectives thus involve some trade-off but it will be possible
to accommodate both small and larger scale firms within those eligible to
propose projects withinthe framework of this current program for strengthening
R&D capabilities in industry.
Industrial Projects Department
M1arch 1976



ANNEX 4.4
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
AREAS OF INITIAL PROJECT EFFORT
1.        From the review of Spanish industrial performance and conditions
(Annex 2.1) it has been concluded that the electronics industry, the mechanical
engineering industry, and food industries are among those industrial subsectors
from which a significant contribution to the strengthening of Spanish industry
through technological advancements can reasonably be expected. In this
Annex, an attempt has been made to briefly describe the particular conditions
in these subsectors and to give an outline of the scope for improved capabili-
ties through development of competitive products. Also a general description
will be given of how the process of a concentrated research, development and
engineering effort might work in each of the subsectors mentioned above.
2.        Some observations are necessary at this point, however.  First, the
selection of the areas above for an initial project effort is necessarily
tentative at this stage, since only detailed studies of future markets and of
the available managerial and technical capabilities can establish any better
founded criteria of selection. From this follows (a) that a good deal of the
description below of what might happen in these subsectors in terms of product
development and improved competitiveness is conjectural and used for illustra-
tion purposes only; and (b) that these are most likely also other fields of
promising technological advancement that will be identified in due course.
Second, it should further be recalled that technological progress and the
development of new products and markets represent only one of various conditions
for increasing productivity and competitiveness of Spanish industry. Other
key factors, which may vary considerably among and within individual subsectors,
are the achievement of improved economies of scale, improvement in plant
layouts and job description, in material and inventory handling, and impor-
tantly, more efficient ways of marketing.
A.   Electronics Industry
3.        Spain's electronics industry has developed in the wake of a rapidly
expanding domestic market. It was in particular the rapidly growing demand
for telecommunications equipment and television sets that permitted the
industry to grow at annual rates of well over 15 percent during the past five
years. Total value of production exceeded $1.0 billion in 1975, and employment
reached some 90,000 in the same year.
4.        About 90 percent of total output is for the domestic market.  But
Spanish production is not adequate to meet total domestic demand, of which
some 40 percent continues to be covered by imports. The small but rapidly
rising volume of exports comprises components.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 2
5.        The industry's output consists predominantly of electronic equipment
(1974: 68 percent), mainly equipment for the telecommunications sector;
the shares of consumer electronics (18 percent) and components (14 percent)
are comparatively small. The Spanish production facilities of electronic
equipment are virtually all controlled by large international groups, and
production is under their name brand. Only a few small Spanish firms have so
far attempted to operate in the general telecommunications area in competition
with large foreign dominated enterprises. Their market shares are very small.
This contrasts with very large market shares held by a few international
firms. For example, Standard Electrica, an ITT subsidiary, contributes
over 60 percent of total production. The same firm employs over 20,000
equivalent to almost half the total employment in this subsector.
6.        In the equipment subsector, growth in output of telecommunications
equipment is anticipated to decelerate significantly as domestic demand
becomes more saturated. A stronger expansion of production is, however,
expected in data processing equipment and in electromedical equipment. Both
product groups are also expected to contribute increasingly to exports.
.
7.        The production of consumer electronics is currently the least
dynamic area of the electronics industry. Focusing mainly on black and white
television sets (1974: 76 percent of total output), its future depends very
much on the eventual introduction of color television in Spain. The firms
operating on this branch of electronics industry are mostly majority foreign-
owned or otherwise fully dependent on foreign licenses and technical assis-
tance.
8.        The only subsector which has been successfully penetrated by Spanish
manufacturers is the components subsector. This subsector has also grown more
rapidly than other branches of the electronics industry. A major supplier to
the Spanish consumer electronics industry, the components subsector has in
recent years firmly established itself in foreign markets. Exports, notably of
resistors, capacitors, and potentiometers, have become an increasingly impor-
tant factor behind the expansion of output. In 1974, about half of the total
production of components was exported.
9.        The largest entirely Spanish-owned electronics company (Piher)
operates in the components field. Founded originally to make resistors, Piher
now manufactures also potentiometers, capacitors and semiconductors. About
half of its output is being exported. In Spain, Piher employs about 3,200.
Its volume of sales was about $37 million in 1974. Piher's competitiveness in
international markets is reflected not only in the growing volume of exports
but also in the establishment of manufacturing plants abroad. Piher has,
since 1973, a plant in the U.S. and is currently setting up another one near
London, England. The company also recently won a contract for the delivery of
a turn-key plant for components to Algeria.
10.       There is a number of other smaller components manufacturers which
also have successfully begun competing in international markets. As in the



ANNEX 4.4
Page 3
case of Piher, these firms have been able to produce technologically more
advanced products on the basis of older foreign designs. In many fields they
have in this way developed a considerable technological know-how and production
capability. It can be anticipated that Spanish electronics firms will increas-
ingly be able to move from components manufacture into the production of
consumer electronics and electronic equipment.
11.       On the basis of the already existing capabilities of the electronics
industry it would appear that Spain has good opportunities to achieve strong
competitive positions - through product development - mainly in the following
areas: (a) components (particularly capacitors, resistors, semi-conductors and
integrated circuits); (b) electronic control and measuring equipment; (c)
electromedical equipment (particularly in the field of pacemakers 1/) and (d)
delay lines. 2/
12.       Realization of these opportunities will require a substantial
increase in investment of the electronics industry and concentrated efforts in
the design, engineering and marketing of continuously improved product lines.
In 1974, the electronics industry was declared a "sector of preferential
interest" (Decree 2593/1974). Wth this measure, the Spanish Government
intended to stimulate additional investments in existing firms and the creation
of new enterprises in this field. The incentives offered through Decree
2593/1974, however, are less than what has been offered to other industries
of preferential interest (see Annex 3.3) and appear inadequate to stimulate
necessary new investments. Apparently under the impression of the significant
foreign participation in this industry as a whole, the Decree does not provide
for access to public credit, thus obliging eligible enterprises to rely on
self-financing and private credit. An exception has been made for firms
located in the so-called "development poles" and "development zones" and,
what is probably more significant, for enterprises with INI participation.
The Decree also maintains the condition of a minimum fixed investment of Ptas.
100 million for the expansion of existing industries and of Ptas. 250 million
for the creation of new industries.
13.       The allocations for research and development in the electronics
industry are up to now entirely inadequate to establish and to maintain strong
competitive positions over extended periods. This applies in particular to
those product lines that currently appear to be most promising for Spanish
manufacturers. Available data suggest that Standard Electrica is currently
1/   In this area, the Ministry of Industry believes there is a good chance for
Spain to develop a worldwide market leadership.
2/   A device capable of retarding a pulse of energy between input and output,
based on the properties of materials, or circuit parameters or mechanical
devices. Examples of delay lines are material media such as mercury (spec.
Spain), in which sonic patters may be propagated in time, lumped constant
electrical lines, coaxial cables, transmission lines and recirculating
magnetic drum loops.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 4
the only major enterprise in the electronics sector that spends more than 2.5
percent of its volume of sales on R&D (1973: about $10 million). It should be
noted that the research and development expenditure of Standard Electrica
focuses on telecommunication systems, including satellite techniques, i.e. on
areas of lesser interest to Spanish electronics manufacturers.
14.       The comparatively small share of qualified technicians and engineers
employed in the Spanish components subsector (1973: 9 percent of all labor in
this industry group) is probably more indicative of the so far limited capacity
of Spanish electronics manufacturers to conduct research and product develop-
ment on a broader scale. Nevertheless, wherever Spanish electronics manufac-
turers have expanded into new product lines in recent years they have demon-
strated good technical capabilities and in many cases technical ingenuity.
Still, moving into areas of new technological application has been on a rather
narrow base, mainly because of prevailing individualistic management practices
and the infant character of this industry. Also the fact that Spanish compan-
ies had in general to make their way up in competition with large international
firms and with little government support, has made them rather reluctant to
take any particular development risks.
15.       There are indications that recent successes of individual firms in
product development and the changing economic conditions have now also intro-
duced significant changes in Spanish managerial attitudes. These changes lead
one to expect that Spanish electronics manufacturers are now more prepared to
take greater advantage of opportunities for technical and entrepreneurial
activities than in the past and to drive towards establishing competitive
positions also for future markets by mobilizing the technical and innovative
skills available to them. Clearly, they essentially lack the expertise to
identify future opportunities and to embark on systematic research, development
and engineering efforts. Also existing plant sizes, problems of under-capitali-
zation and lacking communication with other related companies, other industries
and institutional research, may represent major obstacles to carry out such
programs. The proposed project is designed to help overcome these constraints
and to act as a catalyst and supporting mechanism in selecting, developing and
advancing product lines in which positions of leadership can be established
and maintained.
16.       Summing up, it can be said that despite persistence of important
industrial deficiencies and of important disincentives to entry and expansion
1/ the electronics industry is probably the most promising area for concentra-
ted research and development efforts. This can be said not only in the light
of the already existing capabilities and opportunities in the industry itself,
but also with respect to the significant impact that any technologically more
advanced and more competitive products could have on the capabilities of other
Spanish industries.
1/   Non-availability or scarcity of official credit and venture capital, lack
of readily available technological, management and marketing assistance,
and high tariffs on imports of industrial inputs and testing equipment.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 5
B.   Mechanical Engineering Industry
17.       Spain's mechanical engineering industry, defined as the manufacture
of products listed in Chapter 84 of the Spanish Customs Nomenclature 1/, is
somewhat smaller in size than the electronics industry. In 1975, the indus-
try's total value of output was in the order of $0.8 - 0.9 billion. Total
employment was estimated at about 150,000.
18.       The rapid industrialization of Spain and a continuous need for
replacing older industrial equipment by newer and more sophisticated ones has
given strong impulses to the growth of the mechanical engineering industry.
In real terms, the industry expanded at over 16 percent per year during
1965-70 and at about 15 percent during 1971-75. At the same time, the industry
moved gradually into the manufacture of heavier and technologically more
advanced products. Building mostly on imported technologies, but succeeding
in the further development of many such original designs and processes,
Spain's engineering industry is now in a position to supply, for example, over
85 percent of the total equipment of an oil refinery, and 80-90 percent to the
hot rolling facilities and 60-80 percent to the cold rolling facilities
of steelworks. It also can supply over 80 percent of the equipment for blast
furnaces and 80-85 percent of the equipment needed for the manufacture of
complex fertilizers.
19.       In exports, which now account for 25-30 percent of the industry's
output, Spain's manufacturers have maintained their competitive positions in
machine-tools and textile machinery, and they have become regular exporters of
pumps, compressors, engines, and of many other types of light engineering
goods. Also some exports of heavy equipment have emerged in recent years,
including shipments abroad of rolling mills, straighteners for steel profiles
(the largest ever built in Europe), and of heavy lifting equipment. But these
exports are less important and, in general, also less regular than sales of
light mechanical equipment, in many of which Spain has a fairly long tradition.
20.       In traditional exports, such as textile machinery and machine-tools,
comparative advantages have been maintained to a large extent by the industry's
capability to accommodate small orders and frequently changing specifications,
which in turn was facilitated by the large number of small manufacturers
sharing these markets. In addition, however, and this applies in particular
to manufacturers of textile machinery, firms have successfully kept abreast
with technological developments. In the field of textile machinery, many
manufacturers have been able to develop new product lines, and they are now
1/   This heterogeneous group includes, among others, mining and earthmoving
equipment, boilers, compressors, pumps, combustion engines, textile
machinery, equipment for the iron and steel industry, the petrochemical
and chemical industries as well as machine-tools and agricultural machi-
nery.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 6
advancing in equipping their products with electronic controls. One example
of an indigenous Spanish development is the circular knitting machine of a
Badalona-based firm (Jumberca, S.A.). This firm is now the largest Spanish
manufacturer of textile machinery.l/
21.       In other industrial product lines such as pumps, compressors,
engines and roller bearings, product developments are less evident, partly
because of the heterogeneity of products, and production appears in general to
depend more heavily on foreign technology. But also in these fields there are
a number of indigenous Spanish developments which have reduced the country's
dependence on foreign technology. Examples are in the production of multistage
compressors, diesel engines, certain special equipment for petrochemical and
chemical industries, and in various types of mining equipment.
22.       On the whole, however, technological advancements in the mechanical
engineering sector have been quite uneven. Advancements have been particularly
small in subsectors with an excessive fragmentation of production and lack of
specialization, such as in machine-tools and other metal working machinery, in
agricultural machinery, and in equipment for the construction industry. In
many cases, prevailing small plant sizes have been prohibitive to undertaking
any new engineering and development efforts as demand shifted to heavier
units. Such shift to heavier units affected in particular Spanish boiler
makers and resulted in a restructuring of the entire industry, with large
foreign dominated firms assuming leading positions in the Spanish market.
While these developments have opened for Spain chances of participating in
subcontracting for major international manufacturers, they have also virtually
barred Spain from developing her own export-oriented technologies in this
field.
23.       Allocations of the mechanical equipment industry to research and
development are low as compared to the overall size of the industry and its
export intensity. This is largely due to the existence of a great number of
very small enterprises. Even the largest enterprises of this sector (those
covered in the industrial survey mentioned in para. 17 of Annex 2.1) spent
in 1973 altogether only 0.8% of their volume of sales on R&D. If it is also
taken into account that about half of these allocations were concentrated on
the three largest enterprises surveyed 2/, then it becomes even more evident
how deficient the current capabilities in research, development and engineering
of new products in this sector are.
1/   In 1973; this firm employed about 560 persons and its turnover was over
$20 million.
2/   Babcock and Wilcox, Construcciones Aeronauticas (not a mechanical
engineering firm as defined in this chapter) and Hispano Olivetti (three
out of 52 enterprises surveyed).



ANNEX 4.4
Page 7
24.       Because of the prevailing structural deficiencies and the resulting
constraints to innovations, the sector is likely to face some serious adjust-
ment problems in the future, particularly in view of the probably much closer
economic relationship of Spain to the EEC. Already in 1974, more than 70
percent of total Spanish imports of equipment goods was of EEC origin, and
about 70 percent of these imports was mechanical equipment as defined in
Chapter 84 of the Spanish Customs Nomenclature. Although mergers and other
forms of associations may improve the competitiveness of a number of firms,
many of the smaller mechanical engineering firms -- still operating due to
labor cost advantages and tariff protection -- are bound to disappear as
integration with the EEC advances.
25.       Yet, there are many specialized Spanish firms in this sector which
have assumed and maintained strong competitive positions, both domestically
and abroad, owing to good innovative capabilities and marketing skills.
26.       Through further specialization and concentrated research and develop-
ment efforts, these firms should be able to improve their competitive positions
also in extended markets. Prospects seem promising for industries in which
Spain has already a long and well reputed tradition (e.g. textile machinery)
but also for more recent product lines such as specific equipment for the
petrochemical and chemical industries, the transport equipment industry (e.g.
transmission, clutches) and probably heavy loading and lifting equipment
for ports, ships and workshops. It is clear that future product developments
in the mechanical engineering industry are also closely related to innovative
applications of product developments of other industries. For example,
electronic controls or protective coatings may also open ways to new products
and markets in the mechanical engineering industry.
C.   Food Industries
27.       A $2.8 billion business in terms of its estimated 1974 volume of
sales, food production (including beverages and tobacco manufactures) has
grown at an annual rate of about 5.6 percent during the past ten years or
significantly more slowly than any other industrial activity in Spain. In
1974, total employment in this industry exceeded 500,000.
28.       In spite of a domestic market of over 35 million people, production
is still heavily concentrated on small, mostly family-owned enterprises,
producing for very limited markets and using sales techniques that have barely
undergone any changes in the past two decades. As a result, product standardi-
zation and comparability are generally low. The abovementioned 1973 Survey on
the 500 largest Spanish firms indicated only about 80 establishments in the
food industry with either an annual volume of sales of more than Ptas. 400
million ($6.9 million) or more than 1,000 employed persons. Their combined
share in total sales of the industry was 23 percent, in employment it was 15
percent. Based on the same survey "large" firms held major shares in the
production of sugar (88 percent of total production), in fish canning (51
percent), dairy products (49 percent) and in beverages (36 percent), the latter



ANNEX 4.4
Page 8
being attributable mainly to breweries. In all other subsectors of the
food industry, the relevant participation of "large" firms was below 10
percent. Only one firm, the Swiss-held Nestle, reported annual sales of over
Ptas. 10 billion.
29.       Rising income levels, growing urbanization and tourism have involved
some significant changes in consumption patterns in Spain with demand shifting
increasingly towards meat and milk products, canned fruits and vegetables,
prepared meals, soft drinks and beer. This shift gave rise to considerable
foreign investments in the industries concerned and to an increasing dependence
on foreign technology.
30.       Export of industrial food products, amounting to about 15-20 percent
of the food industry's output, are almost entirely composed of traditional
items, such as fruit and vegetable conserves, fruit pulp, canned fish products,
olive oil and alcoholic beverages. Product developments in these areas have
been rare exceptions. Only more recently have some new products emerged,
mainly in response to specifications made by major foreign food chains.
Examples are marinated vegetables, canned specialty meals and most recently
also precooked deep frozen specialty and seafood preparations. Their overall
importance is small.
31.       Research and development work in food technology has been closely
related to quality control and improvement. Some work has also been done to
solve specific problems that arose in the processing and canning of fruit
juices and in rice processing for precooked food preparations. Quality
control and trouble-shooting work are likely to remain the major areas of
activity in food technology, although it is conceivable that indigenous
research efforts in the field of proteins and protein enrichment may eventually
lead to new Spanish products. In this context, work to obtain new animal feed
products may be promising.
32.       On the whole, however, technological change in Spanish food produc-
tion is less crucial to maintaining competitive positions than improving the
efficiency of production through concentration or merger of firms and improving
standardization and marketing. To promote production of an efficient scale,
the industry was declared in 1974 (Decree 3288) to be of preferential interest.
In this context the Government established minimum plant sizes for individual
productions and it laid out programs for mergers and concentration of firms
into larger units. Conditions of eligibility and the incentives offered by
Government are described in Annex 3.3.
Industrial Projects Department
-llarch 1976



ANNEX 4.5
Page 1
SPAIN
INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
INCENTIVES TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROVIDED TO FIRMS
PARTICIPATING IN "JOINT ACTION PROGRAMS" (ACCIONES CONCERTADAS)
1.        Joint Action Programs were initiated by Spain's First Development
Plan (1964-67) as an instrument for restructuring Spanish industries. Adopted
from the French regime of "quasi contracts" between the Government and indivi-
dual enterprises of a specific industry, Joint Action Programs aim at achieving
objectives such as expansion of production, raising productivity, reorganization
of the sector through mergers, common services and larqer scale production
units, plant modernization, and improvement of product quality. Participating
firms obtain a series of special credit, tax, tariff and other benefits in
return for voluntary acceptance of certain contractual obligations such as
reaching a specific plant scale, volume of output, etc., usually for a period
varying from four to eight years.
2.        Since the introduction of this policy instrument, Joint Action
Programs have been established for the following manufacturing industries:
iron and steel, leather, vegetable canning, pulp and paper, shipbuilding,
shoes and leather goods, and flour milling.
3.        Out of these programs, only the Joint Action Program for the ship-
building industry (Order of July 26, 1967) has made special reference to the
objective of research and development,offering certain incentives to those
participating enterprises that voluntarily increase their allocations for R&D
"up to 0.25 percent of the actual value of their annual production". The
incentives include a reduction of up to 95 percent of the import duties and
the I.C.G.I. border tax 1/ on equipment and instruments, provided Spanish
products of comparable quality are not available.
4.        In the Order of October 21, 1971, specific rules have been laid out
that apply to research and development works for the shipbuilding industry.
According to these rules, "concerted" enterprises, research centers and other
public or private entities intending to conduct any research and development
activities related to shipbuilding have to apply with the industry's research
association (Asociacion de Investigacion de la Construccion Naval), submitting
project justification and cost estimates, among others. After clearance by
the authorities in charge of the Joint Action Program (autoridad de concierto)
usually the Ministry of Industry, the Asociacion enters into a specific
research contract with the entity planning to conduct the research and develop-
ment work. For research and development work to be undertaken by the Asocia-
cion itself the same rules of approval apply.
1/   Impuesto de Compensacion de Gravamenes Interiores



ANNEX 4.5
Page 2
5.        The financing of research and development projects in the shipbuild-
ing sector is shared by all "concerted" enterprises according to a percentage
system determined by the Government (autoridad de concierto). The latter also
determines the required annual quotas for R&D expenditure based on the annual
value of production of each participating firm.
Industrial Projects Department
March 1976



