77 oL
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1425 SP
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Research, Development
and Engineering Project)
between
SPAIN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 8, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1977, between SPAIN (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
,eneral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and (uar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Unit" means the unit to be established in accordance
with Section 3.01. of this Agreement, and includes any successor
to the Unit; and
(b) "Sub-project" means a particular project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as described in Part B of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IT
The Loan
Section 2.0]. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, ar. amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million dollars ($18,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tur=s made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project to
be financed out of the nroceeds of the Loan shall be Procured in
accordance with the Provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the princinal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) rer annum on the principal
3mount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be nayable
semi-annually on Arril 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall renay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization 2chedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, to the satisfaction of
the Bank: (i) establish within its Ministry of Industry a Unit
for purposes of the Project; (ii) define the responsibilities,
functions and administrative and operating procedures of the Unit;
and (iii) as soon as possible but in any case not later than
December 31, 1979, or such other date as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree, take all necessary steps to transform the Unit
into an autonomous organization.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of
Section 4.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) employ in the Unit a qualified and experienced
managing director appointed after consultation
with the Bank; and
(ii) provide the Unit, or cause the Unit to be
provided, promntly as needed, with such
qualified and experienced technical and
suDporting staff as shall be required for
the efficient discharge of its functions
and responsibilities.


﻿- 6 -
(c) The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the
Project to be carried out through the Unit with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with aprropriate administrative,
financial, industrial, scientific and commercial practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, the Unit, promntly as
needed, with such funds, facilities, services and other resources
as shall be required for the carrying out of the Project and the
efficient discharge of the Unit's functions and responsibilities.
(d) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Secticn, the Borrower shall, under conditions
accertable to the Bank, make available to the Unit: (i) the pro-
ceeds of the Loan; and (ii) nther ftnds required for the Project
presently estimated to be the equivalent of twenty-two million
dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause the
Unit to furnish semi-annually te the Bank for the Bank's review
its work Program for the next six-month neriod and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) During the first three years following the date of this
Apreement, the Borrower shall cause the Unit to consult with the
Bank before initiating any Sub-project estimated to cost more
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) equivalent.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank upon completion
of each Sub-project, a detailed report on the results of each
such Sub-project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Unit in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Unit to employ
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall bi satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documr.ents; and
(iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or cause
to be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, iEso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 9 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held, by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of any
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. After the Unit has been transformed into an
autonomous organization, the Borrower shall:
(a) maintain or cause the Unit to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial conditions of
the Unit;


﻿- 10 -
(b) cause the Unit to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets , statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordanc-.
with appronriate auditing principles consistently apolied, by
the Borrower's Intervenci6n General de la Administraci6n del Estado;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Unit and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request; and
(c) cause the Unit at all times to manage its affairs, main-
tain its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry
on its operations, all in accordance with sound business, financial,
industrial, scientific and commercial nractices.
Section 4.04. Without limiting the enerality of the provi-
sions of paragraph (c) of Section 3.01. of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, during a period of not less than three years
after completion of the Project, provide the Unit with all funds
necessary to enable the Unit to carry on its operations.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(i) the Unit has been established and its responsibili-
ties, functions and administrative procedures have
been defined; and
(ii) the managing director of the Unit referred to in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement has been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date September 6, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Comercio of the Borrower is
desinated as renresentative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Soction 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are snecified for +he
nurposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditioi:s:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria General Tecnica
Ministerio de Comercio
Almagro 34
Madrid 3, Spain
Cable address:                     Telex:
SERCOM                             27701
Madrid
with coDies to:
(i) Direcci6n General de Pol'tica Financiera
Ministerio de Hacienda
Alcala 11
Madrid 14, Spain
Cable address:                     Telex:
MOHDA-E                            27811
Madrid


﻿- 13 -
(ii) Dirección General de Promociön
Industrial y Tecnologia
Ministerio de Industria
Ayala 3
Madrid 1, Spain
Cable address:                Telex:
MISC-E                        442o4
Madrid
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction "nd Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
TNTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SPAIN
By /s/ D. Juan Jose Rovira Sanchez Herrero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans Pollan
Azting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and            15,700,000          48%
Machinery
(2) Technical Ser-            2,300,000          48%
vices
TOTAL     18,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made: (i) in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) in respect of
the Unit's staff salaries, office expenses and other administrative
costs, except as the Bank shall agree.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category


﻿- 17 -
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the first five-year nhase of a program
by the Borrower to nromote industrial expansion by, inter alia,
developina an indigenous technology and marketing expertise in
specialized industrial fields. The Project consists of the fol-
lowing parts:
Part A:   Provision to the Unit of the technical carabilities re-
quired by the Unit to carry out its functions; and
Part B:   Carrying out by the Unit of Sub-nrojects of research,
development and engineering oDerations in industrial
fields satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1980
through April 15, 1990                          900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.90%
More than three years but not
more than five years
before maturity                           3.15%
More than five years but not
more than nine years
before maturity                           5.70%
More than nine years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           6.95%
More than eleven years
before maturity                           8.20%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods will be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for (i) items or groups of items estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less, and (ii) items which are
proprietary in character, which can be procured only from a
limited number of suppliers, or whose delivery requires a long
lead time and for which there is a need for early delivery, may,
with the Bank's concurrence, be procured through regular commer-
cial channels after international shopping.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
Part B of this Schedule: (i) bidders shall be required to state in


﻿- 22 -
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Spain may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the followii, provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Spain
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Spain equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.


﻿- 23 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Spain.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
comrared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid;
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under naragraph (c) is the lowest evaluatet bid shall
be selected.


﻿- 24 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 25 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids or quotations, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


