Page  1
T
he World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY
September 15, 2010 
 
Mr. Olusegun O. Aganga 
Honorable Minister 
Federal Ministry of Finance 
Ahmadu Bello Way 
Central Business District 
Abuja, Nigeria 
 
Honorable Minister: 
 
Nigeria: National Energy Development Project (Cr. 4085-UNI)
 
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the 
“Agreement”) dated July 15, 2005 for 
the above-referenced Project, between the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the “Borrower”) and the 
International Development Association (the “Association”).  We also refer to the letters from 
your Ministry dated May 18, 2009 and December 18, 2009 requesting changes in the Project’s 
scope, and to our subsequent discussion regarding the associated amendments to be put in place 
including (i) a change in the description of the Project’s development objectives and activities, 
and reallocation of Credit proceeds, (ii) a change in the Project’s performance indicators to be 
reflected in the updated Project Implementation Manual, and (iii) updating the legal agreements 
to reflect the replacement of the Nigeria Electric Power Authority (“NEPA”) with the Power 
Holding Company of Nigeria (“PHCN”), which succeeded NEPA in all its existing contractual 
obligations including the Project Agreement between the Association and NEPA, pursuant to the 
Electric Power Sector Reform Act, 2005 (Act No. 6).   
 
Accordingly, we are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby proposes to amend 
the Agreement to read as follows: 
 
1. 
Wherever used in the Agreement, the terms “National Electric Power Authority” and 
“NEPA” shall be replaced, respectively, with the terms “Power Holding Company of 
Nigeria” and “PHCN.” 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
2. 
The words “and a successor holding company” in Recital D of the Preamble to the 
Agreement shall be deleted.  
3. 
The definition set forth in paragraph (r) of Section 1.02 shall be amended to read as 
follows: 
“(r) “PHCN” means the Power Holding Company of Nigeria, established and operating as 
a
successor to the Nigeria Electric Power Authority (including as a successor party to the 
Project Agreement between the Association and the Nigeria Electric Power Authority) 
pursuant to the Electric Power Sector Reform Act, 2005 (Act No. 6). 
4. 
The disbursement table in Section A.1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement shall be 
replaced with the amended table set forth in Attachment I to this letter. 
5.  
Schedule 2 to the Agreement shall be replaced in its entirety with the amended Schedule 
2
set forth in Attachment II to this letter. 
 
All other provisions of the Agreement, as amended herein, shall remain in full force and 
effect.  
 
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendments to the Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower by countersigning and dating the two original copies of this letter and 
returning one countersigned original to us. The amendments to the Agreement shall become 
effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter.   
 
Sincerely, 
 
By: /s/ Adetunji A. Oredipe
 
Acting Country Manager for Nigeria 
Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
 
By:     /s/ Olusegun O. Aganga 
Name: Mr. Olusegun O. Aganga  
Title:  Honorable Minister of Finance 
Date:  January 24, 2011 
Page  3
-
3
-
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works/ 
90,900,000 
100% of foreign  
 
Supply and Installation  
 
expenditures; 100% of  
local expenditures, ex-
factory cost; and 
90% of other local 
expenditures  
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
100% of foreign  
 
expenditures; 100% of  
 
(a)  BPE 
330,000 
 
local expenditures,            
ex-factory cost; and 
 
(b)  PHCN 
 
5,650,000 
90% of other local  
 
expenditures  
 
(3) 
Consultants’  
100% 
 Services 
 
 
 
(a)  BPE 
1,990,000 
 
(b)  PHCN 
9,980,000 
 
(4) 
Training, study tours, 
 
100% 
 
 and 
workshops 
 
(a)  BPE 
770,000 
 
(b)  PHCN 
1,010,000 
 
(5) Incremental 
operating 
costs 
3,170,000 
100% 
 
(6)      Unallocated                                       
0
___________ 
 TOTAL 
 
 
113,800,000 
 
========== 
 
Page  4
-
4
-
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to continue support for the Borrower’s energy sector reform 
and key regulatory and policy institutions; (ii) to increase efficiency in the power sector and to 
improve the supply of electricity and service delivery; (iii) to demonstrate possible models to 
scale-up electricity access; and (iv) to support the Borrower’s gas sector reform to improve gas 
supply for power generation.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
A. 
Transmission System Development
1. 
Carrying out investments in substation extensions and capacity upgrades, including in the 
Lagos area and selected 132 kV feeders, and rehabilitation of selected Substations, resulting in 
the potential to earn additional performance-based carbon finance revenues. 
2. 
Introducing reactive power compensation equipment including capacitor banks, reactors 
and static-Var compensation units at strategic locations in the 132 kV and 33 kV part of the 
network, resulting in increased efficiency and in the potential to earn additional performance-
based carbon finance revenues. 
3. 
Improving reliability of service to customers by reducing upstream constraints to  
strengthen the transmission supply, including refurbishing of substations, restringing of lines, and 
increasing localized grid capacity, resulting in increased efficiency and in the potential to earn 
additional performance-based carbon finance revenues. 
4. 
Carrying out a load/demand study. 
5. 
Provision of bulk metering equipment and extension of the National Dispatching Center 
and the SCADA control system. 
6. 
Site supervision, engineering and implementation support, and executing safeguard 
requirements for managing hazardous solid wastes. 
 
B. 
Distribution Efficiency Enhancement
Carrying out the CREST program to improve distribution, including investments to 
improve quality and continuity of supply, curb pilferage of electricity, and raise the standards of 
customer service, including: 
1. 
Provision of High Voltage Distribution Systems, resulting in increased efficiency and in 
the potential to earn additional performance-based carbon finance revenues. 
Page  5
-
5
-
2. 
Installation of online capacitors and meters, resulting in increased efficiency and in the 
potential to earn additional performance-based carbon finance revenues. 
3. 
Introduction of customer service centers, rapid response vehicles. 
4. 
Development of a universal billing system and software. 
5. 
Introduction of improved accounting and financial systems and related hardware and 
software. 
6. 
Provision of wide area networks and information technology infrastructure. 
C. 
Access Expansion, Intensification and Renewables 
1. 
(a)  Demonstrate viable models for expansion of access to electricity through the 
implementation of pilot electrification projects in selected States so as: (i) to achieve lower 
distribution costs through improved technology; (ii) to intensify distribution in peri-urban areas; 
and (iii) to expand distribution to rural areas, including grid extensions and renewable energy 
development. 
(b) 
Development of standard Power Purchase arrangements for Grid-connected small 
hydro projects, and development of replicable business delivery models for solar PV. 
2. 
Provision of support for the National Renewable Energy Master Plan and design of cross-
sectoral energy applications. 
D. Project 
Management 
Unit
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for preparatory work for gas contractual frameworks. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the environmental, resettlement and social unit. 
3. 
Project implementation support, including provision of support to the PMU for 
transformation of some functions of the PMU to a Corporate Planning and Strategy Unit in the 
FMPS; and (ii) transformation of other functions of the PMU to a Rural Electrification Agency. 
4. 
Carrying out a communication campaign for prevention of HIV/AIDS transmission. 
E. 
Policy Reform and Private Participation
Provision of technical and financial assistance to BPE in the following areas:  
1. 
Support for establishment, operation and capacity building of various institutions under 
the Program including the NERC, Rural Electrification Agency, and Market Operator. 
Page  6
-
6
-
2. 
Formulation and implementation of communication and outreach initiatives for energy 
sector stakeholders to build consensus and facilitate the implementation of the Program. 
 
