Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3148-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
November 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and mny be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit     =       Sudanese Pound (LSd)      =       100 piasters
Official Market                                         Parallel Market
US$1.00  = LSd 0.50                                     US$1.00  - LSd 0.80
LSd 1.00 = US$2.00                                      LSd 1.00 - US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fd)              =  1.04 acres (ac)           = 0.42 hectares (ha)
1 metric ton (mt)          =  1,000 kg                  = 2,202.6 (lbs)
1 kilometer                =  1,000 meters
1 meter (m)     3             3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)         =  35 cubic feet
1 foot (ft)                -  12 inches (ins)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS     -    Agricultural Bank of Sudan
ARC     -    Agricultural Research Corporation
ARP     -    Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BOS     -    Bank of Sudan
EAP     -    Export Action Program
GOS     -    Government of Sudan
MAFNR   -    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
PPF     -    Project Preparation Facility
SOC     -    Sudan Oilseeds Company
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system; An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound was adopted along
with a parallel market rate of US$1.25 per Sudanese pound. Valuation of
all imports for customs purposes has been changed to the new official
rate (ESd 1 = US$2.00) from the previous official rate (bSd 1 = US$2.50).
The Government has gradually moved various categories of imports and
exports to the parallel rate. All exports and all imports except for
a few key commodities, are now on the parallel rate, and a unification of
the rate is anticipated in the near future. With the exception of
petroleum products and import duties, all cost estimates are based on
the parallel market rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
Agricultural Services Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                   Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary                Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS)
Amounts                    SDR 15.7 million (US$18 million equivalent)
Terms                   :  Standard
Onlending Terms         : US$11.3 million loan to ABS at an interest rate of
9.6 percent per annum repayable over 20 years, in-
cluding a grace period of seven years. US$2.9
million would be provided to ABS as a grant for
technical assistance provided for under the Project.
US$3.8 million, representing fixed assets included in
the Project, would be made available to ABS as equity.
Project Description        The proposed Project would, over a period of four
years, strengthen the institutional structure of ABS
and provide a package of credit, essential inputs
and services to private farmers in three selected
areas: Abu Hamed, Dongola and Umm Ruaba. This would
lay the basis for a stronger nationwide role for ABS
as an efficient development banking institution assist-
ing private farmers to remove critical constraints on
production. Specifically, the Project would provide,
for the restructuring and strengthening of ABS: (i)
technical assistance and training; (ii) additional
ABS buildings for offices, stores and staff housing
to increase efficiency and to facilitate supply dis-
tribution and marketing; (iii) vehicles for ABS
headquarters and branch offices to enable timely
services to farmers; and (iv) incremental ABS opera-
ting costs such as salaries, vehicle expenses and
building maintenance. The Project would further
provide, as appropriate on credit; (v) pumpsets and
spare parts to ensure adequate water supply to crops
in Abu Hamed and Dongola areas and tubewells in the
Dongola area; (vi) agricultural machinery, and trucks
in the selected subproject areas; and (vii) incremen-
tal annual farm inputs, cash advances, and other
farm operational costs in the sub-project areas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks      :    The Project would assist the institutional develop-
ment of ABS and would increase production, both for
export and domestic consumption, of grains, ground-
nuts, gum arabic, sesame, fruits and vegetables.
Incremental production would result in net foreign
exchange earnings and savings (due to import substi-
tution) of about US$12 million per year by the end
of the project period. Risks affecting results in
the subproject areas are well within acceptable
ranges. Failure to adequately restructure ABS as a
sound financial institution would however lead to
continued losses in its banking operations and would
in turn affect project implementation and prospects
for duplication in other areas. Provisions have
been included in the project design to minimize
these risks.
Summary of Project Costs:
Local    Foreign                 Foreign
Project Component                              Costs    Exchange   Total    Exchange
…-------US$ Million------          %
Institutional (ABS)
Technical Assistance and Training               0.5         1.9        2.4        79
Buildings and Equipment                         2.2         2.2        4.4        50
Motor Vehicles                                  0.5         1.0        1.5        67
Incremental ABS Operating Costs                 1.9        0.5         2.4        21
5.1        5.6       10.7        52
Credit and Services (subprojects)
Irrigation Equipment                            1.6        3.8         5.4        70
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment            0.1         0.5        0.6        83
Farm Inputs and Farm Operational Costs          5.9        4.6        10.5        44
7.6        8.9       16.5        54
Total Baseline Costs                        12.7       14.5       27.2
Physical Contingencies                          0.4        0.4         0.8
Price Contingencies                             4.5        3.1         7.6
Total Project Costs (including US$3.4
million equivalent of duties and taxes)  17.6           18.0       35.6
Financing:
Local Foreign
Cost   Exchange    Total
------US$ Million-------
IDA                                          -      18.0       18.0
Government (including ABS
internal resources)                     13.8         -       13.8
Farmers                                    3.8         -        3.8
Total Project Cost                        17.6      18.0       35.6



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                       0.7    2.3    5.0    4.9    4.4    0.7
Cumulative                   0.7    3.0    8.0   12.9   17.3   18.0
Rate of Return  :      33 percent on activities in the subproject areas
Appraisal Report:      No. 3213a-SU
Map                    IBRD No. 15384






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIArION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for SDR 15.7 million (US$18 million equivalent) to the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan to help finance the Agricultural Services Project.
The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The Government would make US$2.9
million equivalent of the proceeds available to the Agricultural Bank of Sudan
(ABS) as a grant for technical assistance provided for under the Project.
US$3.8 million, representing the development of ABS- fixed assets, would be
made available to ABS as Government held equity. US$11.3 million equivalent
would be onlent to ABS at an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum, repayable
over 20 years, including a grace period of seven years. ABS would use the
loan for procurement of annual and capital farm inputs to be provided on
credit to its borrowers in three selected subproject areas.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January, 1981.  Its report has
been forwarded to the Government for comment. The findings of this report are
reflected below. (The previous economic report, No. 2652-SU, was issued on
October 24, 1979). Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are
presented in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 18.5 million (1980
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$470 (1980 Atlas methodology) 1/. Much of
the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is relatively
little population pressure on the land. Although much of the country is
desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential for agricultural
development. About two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or
pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this land is under inten-
sive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, the major
commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is limited to processing
agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds and sugar and to the pro-
duction of consumer goods and building materials. A development of potential
1/   Based on the official exchange rate, which now applies only to a limited
group of products (para. 11). Per capita GNP values for 1980 at the
parallel exchange rate would be about US$267.



- 2 -
significance to Sudan's prospects is the discovery of oil reserves in the
southwestern part of the country. Proven reserves are not large enough for
export production. However, they are large enough to help satisfy part of
the country's domestic requirements, and a development project to meet this
objective is now being considered. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises are
being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is still generated
within the public sector.
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of payments
crisis. Between 1973/74 and 1975/76, the deficit on current account increased
from US$65 million to about US$550 million and remained between US$450 and
US$550 million until 1980, when the combination of a doubling of oil prices
and a serious decline in cotton production pushed the deficit to over US$700
million. In spite of high levels of external aid commitments, disbursements
declined between 1976 and 1978. Gross official reserves have fallen to only a
few days worth of imports. By mid 1981, external payments arrears of between
$1.5 and $2.0 billion had accumulated.
5.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government s ability to
respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse developments in
foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces -- reduced flows of
external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems, and absorptive capacity
difficulties.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was, however, a
sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78; since then,
imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined in real cerms
by some 25 percent between 1972/73 and 1979/80. The decline was concentrated
in cotton and this occurred because of a shift from cotton to other crops and
also because of falling cotton yields. The volume of cotton exports today is
about one third lower than in 1971. Transport difficulties and other infra-
structural problems contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance
in many public irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity problems,
disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the first few years,
dropping from $563 million in 1974 to $156 million in 1977. Because of the
slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external donors became less
willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a difficult choice: either to
cut back on projects just started or to maintain the projects by running down
foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or other sources abroad.



The Government decided to try to sustain the development effort by using
reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms. As the reserves
ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Annual external
public debt service obligations increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to
around $340 million in 1980/81. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to around
35 percent in 1980/81 (excluding repayment of arrears from previous years).
The reasons were (i) the huge amount of external borrowing in 1974-77; and
(ii) the fact that a large proportion of the borrowing was on relatively hlard
terms. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to a heavy current
debt service burden, but also has critical implications for future debt
service obligations (para. 18).
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan-s public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 43 percent
in 1976/77. Although the expansion has slowed in succeeding years, the growth
rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged nearly 25 percent per
year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again rose to around 40 percent.
The expansion of the money supply has contributed to an acceleration in annual
price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 20 percent in recent
years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have been for social and
community services, transfers to local government, and general administration.
The sharp increases in general administration expenditures were due in large
part to rising wages and salaries of civilians in the central government, cost
of living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side,
tax revenues have increased over the past few years; but since the tax system
is relatively inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with
frequent new tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the
relative contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in production and
trade, the Government has taken several significant decisions in the last
three years aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
stand-by agreement with the IMF that resulted in drawings of 51 million SDRs.
The agreement included a 25% devaluation of the Sudanese pound and declarations
of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing and short- and medium-
term foreign borrowing within certain limits. Also, the Government announced
that the pricing system in the irrigated agriculture sector would be reformed
and that land and water charges would be imposed on most crops. In May 1979,



-4-
agreement was reached on a set of policy actions to be taken by Government in
order to obtain access to a three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for SDR
200 million. The policy actions involved essentially an extension of those
agreed under the preceding Fund Stand-by.
11.       In September 1979, the Government enacted additional measures with
respect to the exchange rate system. These were as follows: (i) establishment
of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound, with valuation of all imports
for customs purposes changed to the new official rate; (ii) abolishment of a
special incentive rate for remittances and establishment of a parallel exchange
market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25; and (iii) agreement to allow
residents and nonresidents to have current accounts with Sudanese banks deno-
minated in foreign exchange. At the outset, the majority of export and import
transactions were still at the official rate. However, through successive
moves, the Government has now placed most transactions on the parallel market,
but imports of wheat, sugar, petroleum and a few minor items remain in the
official market.
12.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program under
the EFF. The program included measures to improve incentives for cotton pro-
duction, to further reform the exchange system, and to limit credit expansion.
Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the Government was not able to
make drawings in the third and fourth quarters of 1980/81. Subsequently, in
March 1981, several measures were taken to strengthen the central government-s
budget: increases were effected in  petroleum product prices, import duties and
the prices of cigarettes and liquor. No agreement had been reached by July 1,
1981 on a third year program under the EFF. Negotiations are underway, however.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.       An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91.
However, by mid 1981 the actual production of seed cotton had declined further.
Hence, achievements of original EAP targets for 1990 would now require a
substantially higher average growth rate. Several investments in the irrigated
subsector are aimed at reversing this deteriorating trend. Under the Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC
Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million), funds are being made
available for urgently needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabili-
tation projects will be carried out in the 1980s (the New Halfa Rehabilitation
Project, Credit 1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these). In
addition, several policy measures are underway in the areas of cost recovery,
cotton marketing, and institutional reform.



- 5 -
14.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the size
of its overall development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to
a more realistic level, consistent with expected external and domestic finan-
cial resources. In 1979 the Government completed the Three Year Public
Investment Program, for the period 1978/79-1980/81. This program has recently
been updated to cover the years 1980/81-1982/83. A central objective of this
program is to increase exports and revenues. To that end the Government has
adopted a new interim strategy which concentrates on completion of ongoing
projects (particularly those in the productive sectors), rehabilitation of
existing production schemes, and alleviation of major infrastructural
bottlenecks.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       For some time, a special inter-ministerial committee has been
discussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises. The
Government has begun to take some action to help remedy the problems of these
ernterprises. For example, in September 1979 the Government announced the
abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate structure in
agriculture and replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities.
Organizational reforms have been implemented in the industrial and commercial
sectors as well.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier (para. 7), Sudan-s external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1980 amounted to more than US$3 billion. Scheduled
debt service payments for 1980/81 were almost US$340 million. During the
mid-seventies external debt management was weak, in part because authority to
engage in foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was
divided among many different ministries and centralized control on the amounts
and terms of loans did not exist. This inefficiency was ameliorated through
the decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A new debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance became
operational in 1979, but this unit is not yet operating efficiently. Funds
have been allocated under the recently-approved Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1153-SU) to improve the performance of the DMU.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt and arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the rescheduling
of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the
United States) and the Government reached agreement on: (i) a rescheduling
or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1, 1979 and not paid
(arrears); and (ii) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts owed for the
period October 1979 and June 1981.  This arrangement will apply to loans from



- 6 -
governments or public agencies which had original maturities of more than one
year and which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
18.       The Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about $480 million
in arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and about $60 million of
future debt service obligations. While the Paris Club agreements were more
generous (in terms of period and percentage of debt service covered) than
other such Paris Club agreements and reduced the country's financing gap
to more nearly manageable proportions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short
of resolving Sudan-s medium term external payments problems. For example,
negotiations must still be completed on the rescheduling of debt to commercial
banks. Such an agreement is expected in the near future, but even if all
external debt not covered by the Paris Club is rescheduled, Sudan-s debt
service ratio for 1981/82 will most likely exceed 50 percent. As part of the
effort to help the Government obtain the foreign assistance required to
maintain the development effort, the Bank Group convened a meeting of the
Sudan Consultative Group in April, 1980.
19.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan's medium and long-term debt service is
about 2 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1980/81) and of debt out-
standing and disbursed is almost 10 percent. We estimate that the Bank/IDA
share of debt service will drop to 1 percent in 1984/85 when the Bank/IDA
share of debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 12 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$807.7
million. Of this, US$33.2 million are IFC commitments. There have been
eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 29 credits for a total of 34
projects. Nineteen projects are under implementation as well as one planning
assistance project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank. About 50 percent
of the total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: six
irrigation projects; three rainfed mechanized farming project; three small-
holder development projects, two in the southern region and one in the west,
a livestock marketing project; an agricultural research project; and Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Program; the New Halfa Rehabilitation project; the Blue
and White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Projects and the Western Savannah
Project. Projects in other sectors include: three power projects, two
education projects, two highway projects, four railway projects, a port
project, two technical assistance credits and two credits to the Industrial
Bank of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
21.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement,
fuel, timber--of which there are periodic shortages. Belated delivery of



- 7 -
equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to the Middle
East oil rich states, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on
effective preparation and implementation of projects. Beyond these difficul-
ties there are other shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome
Government procedures. For example, there have been protracted delays in
getting parliamentary ratification of agreed development projects and,
subsequently, in obtaining legal opinions from Government. There have also
been inordinate delays in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of
problems in establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key
staff, completing necessary legal documentation or concluding required
cofinancing arrangements. Effective project implementation has been adversely
affected by slowness in carrying out proper tendering and procurement require-
ments or in completing project accounts and audits. These problems have been
brought repeatedly to the notice of Government authorities, and efforts are
being intensified to help resolve them. The recently approved Second Tech-
nical Assistance project is designed to address the problems.
Strategy
22.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the
Government's current economic and development objectives, more importance
will be placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irriga-
tion schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The
objective here will essentially be to help the country generate increased
export earnings to support the recovery effort. The emphasis in Bank Group
lending will be in support of those activities that contribute prominently
to the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular those that help increase
exports and expand government revenues. In the interim, less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on regional balance in investment programs.
Recent experience has demonstrated that projects that were designed in large
part to help meet equity, as well as productive and regional balance goals,
will very likely take much longer to implement because of problems of inade-
quate infrastructure, lack of skilled manpower, absence of reliable institu-
tional support.
23.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Governnment's
policies, as reflected in the Export Action Program and the Three Year Public
Investment Program (ref. paras. 13, 14). An Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program Credit and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, both
having the objective of helping the country generate increased export earnings
in order to help carry it through the stabilization period, were approved in
FY1980, along with a third power project. More recently, two projects were
approved to help rehabilitate pump schemes along the White and Blue Nile
rivers. A second Technical Assistance project and a Western Savannah project
were also recently approved. Other projects under consideration include reha-
bilitation of the Gezira irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), a second port
project, a petroleum development project, and a sugar rehabilitation project.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       The Bank completed an Agricultural Sector Survey in 1979 (Report
No. 1836a-SU of May 18, 1979). Agriculture accounts for about 40 percent of
Sudan's Gross Domestic Product. It is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force and supplies
inputs for a substantial proportion of industrial activity. The sector
is characterized by its duality; modern capital-intensive irrigation and
rainfed mechanized activities co-exist with traditional agriculture. About
4.2 million feddans are covered by irrigation schemes, 5.6 million feddans
are under large scale mechanized farming systems and over 11 million feddans
are under traditional cultivation. Like the irrigated subsector, the mecha-
nized farming subsector has shown a marked decline in productivity during
the past five years. During the same period, the traditional sector, with
productivity always low, has expanded in area but with no improvement in
productivity.
25.       The principal reasons for the deterioration in Sudan's performance
in the modern agricultural sector during the second half of the seventies
include: (i) lack of incentives created by depressed prices of important
cash crops like cotton, resulting from heavy export duties and an overvalued
exchange rate (para 11); (ii) shortage of foreign exchange for maintaining
investments and importing essential inputs; (iii) lack of adequate local
currency allocations for the operation of parastatals in the irrigated
subsector; and (iv) the continuing drain of skilled manpower to neighboring
countries.
26.       The private agricultural sector in Sudan faces two main constraints
which adversely affect its productivity. The first is the foreign exchange
shortage which prevents import of necessary inputs. The second is the lack
of satisfactory credit arrangements. Currently, only about one percent of
the estimated total credit needs of private sector agriculture is met by
the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) and the only alternative credit source
available to small private farmers is the merchant lender who makes advances
in money or in kind under an ancient tradition called "sheil". Though many
variants exist, in essence the borrower repays at the time of harvest usually
at excessive (implicit) interest rates which may reach well over one hundred
percent. The lack of credit and inputs prevents private farmers from realiz-
ing their full potential. There is, therefore, a pressing need to strengthen
and expand institutional arrangements for credit and farm inputs in the Sudan.
To support these objectives, the proposed Project would strengthen ABS and
provide a package of credit, essential inputs and complementary services in
three selected subproject areas: Umm Ruaba, Abu Hamed and Dongola. (Map
IBRD No. 15384.)



- 9 -
The Subproject Areas
Umm Ruaba
27.       The area around the township of Umm Ruaba comprises about one
million feddans, of which about 240,000 feddans would be covered by the
subproject. The low (400 mm average per annum), erratic rainfall and high
temperatures produce semi-arid conditions. Typical farm holdings are about
40 feddans, half under crops and the rest under gum arabic or pasture. Food
crops are mainly millet and sorghum; cash crops, representing 60 percent of
the cropped area, are primarily sesame and groundnuts. All of these can
withstand extended dry periods. The Umm Ruaba area is totally dominated by
the traditional sheil credit system (para 26). In 1977, farmers in the area
requested ABS to provide seasonal credit. This has led to the formation of
service cooperatives. In 1978/79, ABS made loans to about 1,000 farmers
through five cooperatives; repayments were 100 percent on time. Similar
results were achieved in 1979/80, and in 1980/81 the program was expanded
through 15 registered cooperatives.
Abu Hamed
28.       The subproject area is situated along both banks of the Nile in the
Nile Province. The irrigated area under the subproject of 16,800 feddans is
generally suitable for a diverse range of food, fiber crops and fruits.
Soils are particularly well suited to the production of confectionery ground-
nuts and the area enjoyed a period of exceptional prosperity during the
1960s. By 1970 there was an annual export of 6,000 tons of groundnuts. The
subsequent demise of the crop is attributed to falling quality and yields due
to foreign exchange constraint prohibiting procurement of quality seed mate-
rial, overcropping, closure of the Suez Canal and the controlled marketing
system through the Sudan Oilseed Company, now abandoned. Inputs required for
improved yields are fuel, improved seeds, spare parts and replacement irriga-
tion sets, all of which are constrained due to foreign exchange limitations.
Crops are marketed through the traders when harvested, as storage is not
readily available. The sheil credit system exists, but on terms less strin-
gent than in Umm Ruaba.
Dongola
29.       The subproject area is located along both banks of the main Nile in
the Northern Province; agricultural activity is largely concentrated in the
Selaim Basin, an old course of the Nile. The subproject area of cultivable
land is about 34,000 feddans. The area is arid with negligible rainfall and
uneven topography. Land tenure in the Selaim Basin was converted from large
private holdings to ten feddan allotments by Government in 1970. Land
registration remains incomplete however (para 55). Beans and wheat account
for over 70 percent of the cultivated area; the remainder is under high value
spices and vegetables. Most irrigation is provided from some 1,100 generally
inefficient tubewells. The National Water Authority has the technology and



- 10 -
skilled manpower to install efficient tubewells but its services are presently
provided only to corporations in the modern farming sector and are not cur-
rently available to private farmers (para 55). Irrigation outside the Selaim
Basin is provided by pumps sited on the river bank. Traditional money lenders
are presently the principal source of credit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Objectives
30.        Identification and preparation of the Project have their origins in
a 1977 report by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, which identified the
need for improved agricultural credit services. The report concentrated on
credit requirements for farm machinery and irrigation pumps, essentially in the
modern sector. During the discussions between Government and the Association,
it was decided that requirements of the modern sector could more effectively
be met through specific projects such as New Halfa, the Blue Nile and White
Nile Pump Scheme Rehabilitation Projects and that a separate project should be
prepared to begin addressing the needs of small private farmers. The Bank-s
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa assisted in further project preparation.
In the course of preparation, Price Waterhouse and Associates Ltd. reviewed
the suitability of ABS as intermediary for these purposes. Their report,
issued in 1979, commented favorably on the calibre of ABS's management and
staff and concluded that ABS would be competent to execute a project along
the lines envisaged, subject to rectification, before or during project
implementation, of existing weaknesses in organizational structure, financial
control and operations (paras 35-38).
31.       The Project was appraised in March 1980; the staff appraisal report
(No. 3213a-SU, dated August 23, 1981) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors.  The Credit and Project Summary is at"the  beginning of
this report and a supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from July 1 to July 8, 1981. The Government
delegation was headed by Sid Ahmed Osman, Chairman and Managing Director,
Agricultural Bank of Sudan.
32.       The objective of the Project is to strengthen and expand institu-
tional arrangements enabling adequate provision of credit and complementary
services to individual farmers and cooperatives in order to improve production
and incomes in the private agricultural subsector. To this effect the Project
includes the following two main components which would be mutually reinforcing:
(a) strengthening and restructuring of the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) to
transform it into a viable and effective credit and development institution;
(b) provision of credit, essential farming inputs and complementary services,
through ABS in three selected subproject areas.
33.       Strengthening and restructuring of ABS to redress the present
imbalance in its operations and organizational structure (para 48) and re-
establishing its financial viability (paras 49-53) would enable ABS to



- 11 -
reorient its operations towards credit and development services and to -ct as
a catalyst in developing the private farming subsector. ABS became opera-
tional in 1959 with a wide mandate including credit and banking services;
supply of farming inputs, including the import of farm machinery; harvesting,
trading, storage and marketing (including export) of crops. Despite the fact
that ABS was virtually the only institution empowered to provide credit to
farmers outside the parastatals, ABS has until recently relied on non-banLking
operations, particularly import and trading in farm equipment, for its opera-
ting income. In the course of its operations ABS has built up considerable
expertise in procurement, trading, storage, harvesting services and, although
to a lesser extent than originally foreseen, credit operations. ABS present
capacity would at this stage not allow a drastic expansion in credit and
complementary services. Present capacity is sufficient however to expand
activities in the three selected subproject areas where a modest but important
beginning would be made in removing critical constraints in the private
farming sector (para 26). Two of the subprojects, Abu Hamed and Dongola are
in the irrigated sector. In Abu Hamed water is pumped from the Nile, while in
Dongola tubewell irrigation is the dominant mode. In the third subproject
area, Umm Ruaba, traditional rainfed agriculture is practised. Implementation
of the subprojects would provide focus and impetus to the restructuring of
ABS and by the end of the Project period ABS would be in a position to assume
a considerably larger nationwide role as an effective credit and development
institution. The Project is envisaged as a first phase, initiating a series
of supervised credit and services packages, similar to those which would be
provided in the three subproject areas.
The Agricultural Bank of Sudan
34.       ABS was established by an Act of Parliament in 1957.  It has been
virtually the only specialized institution providing credit to private farmers.
The newly formed Bank of Cooperatives will complement ABS in respect of lending
to cooperatives. Commercial banks do finance crop storage and export trans-
action, but not on-farm activities. ABS operations are concentrated mainly in
the corporate mechanized farming subsector with private irrigation and tradi-
tional rainfed areas being comparatively neglected. Presently ABS lends to
approximately 5,000 clients a year, which is only about one percent of the
potential clients and most farmers have no alternative but the traditional
sheil system (para 26). Two-thirds of ABS lending in recent years has been
for seasonal requirements (fifteen months maturity) while the balance was lent
on medium term (five-year maturity) primarily for machinery or irrigation
equipment. ABS interest rates have recently ranged from seven to nine percent
per annum dependent on type of credit and applicant. Although the 1957 Act
empowers the Board of ABS to make an order for debt collection equivalent to a
decree of the civil court lengthy procedures cause delay, and collection rates
have only averaged about 50 percent (paras 37, 52). ABS performs a number of



- 12 -
nonbanking activities, usually to meet needs not met by existing specialized
agencies, public or private. It is, for instance, engaged in import and
trade of agricultural machinery and inputs; import and export of grain;
operation of stores and silos and contract harvesting in mechanized farming
areas. ABS acquired a dominant role in import and distribution of tractors
and earnings from this activity have until 1978 made a major contribution to
operating income. ABS is withdrawing from contract harvesting activities but
storage and marketing of inputs and produce will continue to be a role
required of ABS, complementary to its lending operations.
35.       Organization and Management.  ABS currently has 15 credit branches
including the three subproject areas, two commercial banking branches, two
silo branches, and a trading branch at Port Sudan. It is reasonably well
staffed but the present organizational structure is imbalanced and the span
of control required of top management is too large. There is a diffusion and
overlap of responsibility for branch supervision and an excessive concentra-
tion of senior, underutilized staff at headquarters. Branch reporting,
accounting, budgeting and management information and control procedures are
seriously deficient, and performance standards are not clearly enforced. The
results are poor internal coordination and wide variation in the performance
of branches. While ABS screens out many potential borrowers based on general
credit policies set at headquarters, the branches thus far have not adequately
appraised individual projects and have not been sufficiently selective.
36.       Financial Situation.  ABS does not have adequate and reliable
information to permit a thorough assessment of the value of its loan portfolio.
Based on available information, it appears that some LSd 7 million of the
total outstanding loans to private farmers is overdue. At the end of 1979,
ABS had unsettled claims valued at LSd 2.4 million for 1,500 borrowers against
which there was a provision for bad debts of LSd 1.1 million. Given the high
level of arrears, this provision is probably inadequate, but an accurate
judgmeiit must await a thorough review of the portfolio (para 51). The overall
financial condition of ABS depends substantially on a number of old liabilities
between it and various Government ministries and agencies, and other accounts
for which ABS liability is uncertain. As of December 31, 1979, assets involved
were about LSd 7.8 million out of a total of LSd 31.5 million and liabilities
8.6 million out of a total of LSd 20.0 million. Liabilities included an amount
of LSd 2.9 million accrued interest on capital (para. 52). The continued
incorporation of these items within the balance sheet overstates total assets
and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on ABS' net worth (para 49).
At the end of 1979, a significant part of ABS' total liabilities were in
foreign supplier credits (LSd 6.8 million) exposing ABS to the foreign exchange
risk. At the end of 1978, ABS had a term debt to equity ratio of 0.7 to 1.0
but due to its transactions in grain marketing, resulting in ABS assuming a
mortgage on grain stocks, the ratio had increased to a 1.0 to 1.0 level by end
1979. Despite a low collection rate on loans, it has adequate liquidity (LSd
2.3 million of cash, LSd 8.6 million of inventories and LSd 0.8 million of
private receivables) to cover its current liabilities (LSd 0.5 million) and
current level of lending. ABS has made a modest start at resource mobilization
by starting commercial banking activities at two branches, Dongola and Zalingei.



- 13 -
37.        In the past, ABS has added a margin of up to 25% on the total
delivered cost of inputs and supplies to farmers. Until 1978, when machinery
imports declined, trading commissions provided a significant share (up to 50
percent) of ABS total income, effectively subsidizing losses on credit
operations. ABS earned an average of LSd 375,000 of profits per year from
1974 to 1977, a modest return of 4% on average year end equity or 1.6% on
average total assets. Trading commissions fell from a 1977 peak of LSd
980,000 to only LSd 453,000 in 1978, and as a result, a peak of LSd 477,000
profit in 1977 became a LSd 249,000 loss in 1978. This loss also included a
first time provision against silo losses of LSd 200,000. Although the 1979
results record a return to profitability, this has only been achieved by
additional revenues from grain marketing transactions and an overstatement
of the results of the banking business. The loan portfolio of ABS has
shown only modest growth in recent years (a 14% compound annual rate in four
years to end 1978 followed by a 5% decline in 1979). By contrast, general
and administrative expenses grew by a 31% compound annual rate over the five
years to end 1979. By the end of 1979 they amounted to 17% of the average
loan portfolio. ABS cannot continue to rely on intermittent nonbanking
transactions to support its banking business. In order to restore profit-
ability and fulfill its primary objectives it is necessary for ABS to improve
its loan collections, on-lend at prevailing market rates, exercise strict
control over administrative expenditure and increase the volume and quality
of its lending.
38.       In summary, as discussed in the preceding paragraphs, ABS is an
institution in the process of transition. Although in part brought about by
the economic difficulties afflicting the Sudan which impose limits on the
scale of its trading activities, reorientation of ABS operations follows
primarily from the Government's present policy of increased emphasis on the
private farming sector and removal of existing constraints (para. 26), with
the objective of reviving this long neglected subsector and releasing its
potential for food and export production, thus contributing to Sudan-s
recovery. ABS will continue to be an important agent for Government support
to the agricultural sector. In the future its credit operations, particularly
for the small and medium farmer, will be expanded, both through its general
lending operations and through subprojects such as those the Project would
support. The complementary services which ABS provides (para. 34) enhance its
potential as an effective development institution at least until such services,
either public or private, can otherwise be effectively established (para. 48).
The institutional aspects of the Project would help reshape ABS to meet sector
objectives by re-establishing its financial viability, restructuring its
organization and staffing and by focusing its noncredit services, without
which agricultural credit in the Sudan cannot be provided successfully.
Detailed Project Features
39.       Restructuring and strengthening of ABS would be assisted through
the following specific provisions included in the proposed Project:



- 14 -
40.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The Project would finance
one technical assistance post of advisor to the Managing Director of ABS
for a period of 48 months at an estimated cost of US$10,000 per month (Section
3.02 Draft Project Agreement). The Project would furthermore finance 72 man-
months of consultants  services, estimated at US$12,000 per month (Section
2.02 Draft Project Agreement). The consultants have recently been appointed
under the PPF advance (para 58) on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. Their work plan is based on an initial three-month period for
identification; a three to six month period for formulation of recommenda-
tions; and a nine to fifteen month period for assistance in implementing the
agreed recommendations. During their initial review, the consultants would
examine the headquarters and branch procedures to identify current deficien-
cies. The review would include examination of the loan portfolio and prepara-
tion of a realistic plan to recover outstanding debts. Based on the consult-
ants- findings and recommendations, ABS would submit to IDA proposals for
revision of the existing accounting and management reporting systems (para
48). Simplified budgetary control procedures would be developed to redress
the deteriorating ratio of operating expenditures to the average loan port-
folio. The design would provide for the identification of separate results
for the various non-banking and banking activities, enabling rational policy
decisions. A specific training program will be formulated, based on require-
ments identified during the review. Training would concentrate on implementa-
tion of new procedures and emphasis would be given to on-the-job training.
The proposed Project provides for limited assistance for overseas training of
selected staff in agriculture, credit and banking management.
41.       Building and Equipment for Offices, Stores and Staff Housing.  One
new branch office building and one unit of staff housing would be provided
for each of ABS branches at Umm Ruaba, Abu Hamed and Dongola. Stores would be
constructed and office equipment provided at Umm Ruaba and Abu Hamed. In
addition, new offices and housing units would be provided for ABS branches
outside the three subproject areas at Demazine and Kassala and stores at
Kassala and Dilling, as part of ABS-s overall restructuring. Additional office
space at ABS headquarters is also provided for, but actual construction would
be subject to the Association-s review of staffing requirements deriving from
the consultants recommendations (para 48). All offices, housing and storage
would be constructed from standard designs.
42.       Incremental Headquarters and Branch Operating Costs.  The Project
would provide support for incremental costs on vehicles and building main-
tenance, of the headquarters and branches resulting from the reorganization and
strengthening of the operations of ABS. Disbursement for these incremental
costs would be on a declining basis, ranging from 50 percent to 30 percent of
eligible expenditure, up to specified aggregate limits (Schedule 1, Draft
Credit Agreement).
43.       Motor Vehicles.  The Project would provide 46 vehicles to ensure
adequate mobility for ABS staff at both headquarters and branches to enable
timely services to farmers. In addition, ABS would procure 12 five-ton trucks
for selected cooperatives (six trucks) and individual farmers in Abu llamed
(six trucks) for transport of farm inputs and produce. ABS would place orders
upon conclusion of a sales agreement with eligible cooperatives or farmers.



- 15 -
44.       The Project would enable the expansion of supervised credit activi-
ties and complementary services in the subproject areas through the following
specific provisions:
45.       Irrigation Equipment.  In order to ensure an adequate water supply
for irrigation in the Abu Hamed and Dongola areas, funds would be provided to
rehabilitate and, where necessary, replace pumps, engines and tubewells, as
required on credit. The Project provides for 1,460 engines, 730 pumps and 250
tubewells.
46.       Agricultural Machinery and Equipment.  To meet the need for tractors
and implements by farmers owning or leasing larger areas of cultivated land in
Abu Hamed, the Project would finance 30 tractors and 30 wide-level discs to be
used for land preparation and levelling. In addition, the Project would
finance 400 knapsack sprayers in Abu Hamed, 250 in Umm Ruaba and 50 platform
scales for cooperatives.
47.       Annual Farm Inputs, Cash Advances and Other Farm Operations Costs.
The Project would finance incremental annual farm inputs and provide short-
term cash advances to farmers in the Umm Ruaba subproject area where farmers
currently need to hire themselves out as laborers to meet family cash require-
ment s.
Project Implementation
48.       Organization and Management of ABS.  An administrative reorganiza-
tion has been formulated as part of the overall restructuring of ABS, and
implementation is already well advanced. Branch operations would be strength-
ened and staffed by transfer of existing personnel from headquarters. Con-
sultants services would be used to devise and implement improved management
and accounting information systems as well as revised budgeting and procure-
ment procedures. An in-depth review of existing credit policies, loan assess-
ment and recovery would be made by the consultants and appropriate actions for
improvement would be recommended (para. 40). A reallocation of functions
between ABS headquarters and its branches would shift the responsibility for
appraisal, supervision and collection of seasonal loans to the branches. ABS
and the Association agreed on a Policy Statement reflecting the current
objectives of ABS (para. 38). During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that not later than September 30, 1982, ABS would submit, for approval by
Association, its proposals based on the consultants recommendations and that
the agreed recommendations would subsequently be implemented not later than
September 30, 1983 (ref. Section 3.04, Draft Project Agreement). It was
further agreed that ABS would consult with the Association whenever it
proposes to amend its Policy Statement in a manner that would materially
affect the objectives, operations or financial condition of ABS (Section
3.06, Draft Project Agreement). In addition, assurances were obtained that
ABS would consult with the Association before amending its Credit Regulations
of 1974 (Section 4.05, Draft Project Agreement). As noted in paragraph 34,



- 16 -
ABS has acquired considerable expertise in non-credit services. Its capacity
in these areas is sufficient to implement the three subprojects, including
Project activities complementary to its expanded credit operations. Since
agricultura'l services are deficient in the Sudan, ABS should continue pro-
viding non-credit services essential to its credit operatiolls. In each of
the three subproject areas, the Project would essentially effect a return to
earlier levels of agricultural production and no new technologies will be
introduced under the Project. Price levels for crops raised in the subproject
provide sufficient incentives (para. 65). Irrigation practices in the two
irrigation subprojects are satisfactory and water is used efficiently. No
new technology will be introduced for pump irrigation and the National Water
Authority (para. 55) is experienced in the installation of wells.
Financial Strengthening of ABS
49.       Long-outstanding accounts between ABS and Government and its
agencies cause uncertainty as to the true financial position of ABS (para 36).
In March 1977 the Deputy Minister of Finance appointed a committee to adjudi-
cate the claims of ABS concerning the outstanding assets and liabilities of
the Institution. Although agreement was reached, the indebted units did not
meet their obligations. The figures will therefore be re-examined and the
revised amounts actually paid over. It would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness that this matter has been finalized in a manner satisfactory to the
Association (Section 5.01(d), Draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Although most of ABS- nonbanking business has proved profitable,
revenues from silo operations have been inadequate to cover depreciation
charges.  Wrhilst past obligations have been unclear, Government has decided
that ABS- responsibility should be limited to management of the silos.
Accordingly, it was agreed during negotiations that an agreement, acceptable
to the Association, governing ABS' management of the silos would be concluded
as a condition for effectiveness (Section 5.01(c), Draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
51.       With regard to overdues (para 36), ABS- accounts do not allow suffi-
cient analysis and understanding of the reasons for the arrears. In addition
to Lheir other obligations, the consultants would review the outstanding
portfolio. During negotiations it was agreed that, not later than September
30, 1982, a plan of action for the collection of outstanding debts (including
a schedule for collection of overdues) would be furnished to the Association
for approval (Section 3.05, Draft Project Agreement). Under ABS- Credit
Regulations, overdue borrowers are not eligible for new credit unless specific
approval is given by the Managing Director.
52 ~    Under the Establishing Act, ABS is required to pay interest at a
rate of 3% on its paid-up capital unless such payments would prejudice ABS-
operations. As at December 31, 1980, LSd 3,252,000 had been accrued but not
paid. Cash flow projections indicate that ABS would be unable to pay this
interest. Accordingly, ABS has been relieved of this liability during the
Project life and the outstanding amount accrued has been transferred to



- 17 -
capital reserve. In addition, ABS would be relieved of any obligation to
charge and pay interest on its paid-up capital until completion of the Project
(Section 3.03, Draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.        In addition to the financial measures set out in the preceding
paragraphs, the following provisions would contribute to the financial
strengthening of ABS: Credit proceeds would be made available to ABS partly
(US$11.3 million) in the form of a 20-year loan, incuding 7 years of grace, at
9.6% annually (para 60); partly in the form of equity (US$3.8 million) and
partly as a grant (US$2.9 million). Given the limited amount of resources
projected to be available to ABS and the consequent level of turnover, ABS
will have a limited capacity to service debt during the next few years while
at the same time maintaining a moderate level of credit operations outside the
subproject areas. It is, therefore, necessary that the Credit proceeds made
available to ABS comprise an element of equity (against which dividend payments
can be made as profits increase), grant capital as weil as loan funds. In
view of the institution-building objectives of the Project, US$3.8 million
equivalent, for the development of ABS fixed assets, would be represented by
paid-up capital, and US$2.9 million equivalent for teclnical assistance would
be made available as a grant. ABS would increase its lending rates (including
supervision and commitment fees) on all new loans to 14% per annum (para 61).
Moreover the Bank of Sudan would subscribe LSd 7.0 million to the authorized
share capital of ABS (para 60).
54.       Implementation in the Subproject Areas.  ABS would be the implement-
ing agency for the subprojects under the supervision of its Deputy Managing
Director. Three new branch offices would be built to help strengthen ABS
operations in the subproject areas (para 41). The Branch Managers would
supervise three senior officers: an agriculturalist, an agricultural economist
and a senior financial officer. In each of the three branch offices, separate
appraisal, supervision and collection teams consisting of an agriculturalist
and an accounts officer would report to these senior officers. Institutional
developments in Umm Ruaba would include establishment of fifteen additional
cooperatives (averaging 200 farmers per cooperative) additional to the fifteen
existing cooperatives (para 27). The cooperatives would elect committees to
assess credit needs and certify the extent of areas cultivated. These com-
mittees would require instruction in cooperative procedures, record keeping
and accounting. In order to assist in appraisal and supervision at the Umm
Ruaba Branch, ABS has appointed two cooperative officers who are in post.
55.       In carrying out the Project, it would be necessary for certain
Government agencies to provide services without which lending operations
would be prejudiced. ABS would have responsibility for coordinating these
services. At Abu Hamed, the reintroduction of confectionery groundnuts is
the principal objective. New stocks of certified confectionery groundnut
seed would be imported. Research and field trials on this crop have been
carried out in recent years, but it is necessary that these be further devel-
oped in the subproject area. The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) has
agreed to undertake field trials in the area and, with selected farmers, the
controlled multiplication of seed. During negotiations, an assurance was



- 18 -
obtained to this effect (Section 3.05 Draft Development Credit Agreement).
At Dongola, there is a need to extend services to farmers to improve technol-
ogy for water extraction and provide ABS with technical standards and speci-
fications for tubewells. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
the National Water Authority, which has the necessary competence and expe-
rience in this field would provide these services (Section 3.04 Draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). In the Selaim Basin, the registration of land
titles remains to be completed. Although incomplete title registration would
not be a serious impediment to subproject implementation, it could affect
longer term development in this particular area. During negotiations, assur-
ances were therefore obtained that land registration in the Selaim Basin would
be completed by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06, Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
56.       The lack of timely, consistent, accurate, and complete accounting
information is a major problem for ABS. The consultants would investigate
current procedures, help implement revised systems and provide on the job
staff training (para 40). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ABS
would produce consolidated accounts in English for all its assets and liabili-
ties, together with separate schedules to identify the transactions under the
Project and furnish them to the Association within four months of the end of
the financial year (Section 4.01, Draft Project Agreement). Because of past
deficiencies in the audit, assurances were obtained that ABS would appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and agreement was reached
on the scope the audit. Audited accounts would be furnished, together with
the auditors report, both in English, to the Association within nine months
of the end of the financial year (Section 4.02, Draft Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       The Monitoring and Planning Section of ABS would be upgraded to
a department which would establish and maintain management information systems
involving standardized reporting for all branches. The advisor to the Managing
Director would oversee the department (para 40). Statistical information on
lending operations by region, branch, crop and type of borrowers would be
collated to assist in planning future lending operations commensurate with
national and institutional policies. ABS would submit quarterly reports on
progress, expenditures and impact of Project implementation to IDA not later
than two months after the completion of each quarter. ABS would also prepare
a Project completion report no later than six months after the completion of
the Project. Assurances were obtained that these reporting procedures would
be followed (Section 2.05(b) and (c), Draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
Project Costs
58.       The total cost of the proposed Project based on January 1981 prices,
including import duties and taxes amounting to US$3.4 million, is estimated at
US$35.6 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component amounts to US$18.0
million equivalent. A ten percent physical contingency has been provided on
institutional support expenditures except for staff costs and consultancy.
Price escalations, except for local labor and staff, have been estimated at
the following rates: (i) for the foreign exchange component 9 percent for
1981; 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent thereafter; (ii) for the local
currency component 22.5 percent for 1981; 17.5 percent for 1982; 12.5 percent
for 1983; 8.5 percent for 1984 and 7 percent for 1985. Contingencies amount
to US$8.4 million. A PPF advance of US$600,000 was approved in November 1980
to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of the following items required
to ensure uninterrupted preparatory activities and an early project start:
(i) technical assistance and training, US$450,000; (ii) motor vehicles,
US$80,000; (iii) office equipment, US$50,000; and (iv) groundnut seeds for Abu
Hamed, US$20,000.
Financing Plan
59.       The financing plan is shown below.  The IDA Credit of US$18 million
would be used to finance the total foreign exchange component or 51 percent
of total Project cost.  The farmers' contributions to project costs represent
projected cash deposits from farmers and cash sales of inputs by ABS.
Local   Foreign                   % of
Cost    Exchange    Total    Total Cost
…------US$ Million-------
ABS  - Equity from GOS (IDA Credit)        -       3.8       3.8          11
- Grant from GOS (IDA Credit)        -       2.9        2.9           8
- Loan from GOS (IDA Credit)         -      11.3       11.3          32
- Equity from BOS                  8.7         -        8.7          24
- Internal Resources               5.1         -        5.1          14
Farmers  Contributions                   3.8         -       3.8          11
Total Project Cost                      17.6     18.0       35.6         100
Relending
60.       As described in paragraph 53, the Government would make US$2.9 mil-
lion equivalent of the Credit proceeds available to ABS as grant for technical
assistance provided for under the Project; US$3.8 million, representing the



- 20 -
development of ABS' fixed assets, would be made available to ABS as Government
held equity while US$11.3 million equivalent would be onlent to ABS at an
interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum, repayable over 20 years, including a
grace period of seven years. These terms and conditions were agreed at nego-
tiations and would be incorporated in a subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and ABS, the execution of which would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(a), Draft Development Credit Agreement). It was
further agreed at negotiations that Government would ensure that ABS increase
its authorized share capital to LSd 25 million by December 31, 1982, and that
BOS would subscribe LSd 7 million to paid-up capital, half ln 1982 and the
balance during 1983 (Sections 3.02(a) and (b), Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
61.       Interest rates charged on loans to ABS' borrowers have been in the
range of 7 percent to 9 percent per annum. Considering: (i) the rate of
inflation in Sudan of 20 percent per annum, estimated to decline to 10 percent
over the next four years; (ii) the current commercial rates ranging from 12
percent to 16.5 percent; and (iii) ABS' poor profitability prospects, it
is necessary for ABS to increase the rate charged to its borrowers. It
would be a condition of credit effectiveness, therefore, that ABS raise its
rate of interest (inclusive of supervision and commitment fees) to not less
than 14 percent per annum on all new loans (Section 5.01(b), Draft Development
Credit Agreement). At this level, ABS' interest rates would effectively
conform with commercial bank rates and, while the rate would not, at current
ievels of inflation, be positive, the increase represents a substantial move
in this direction. The new lending rate gives a satisfactory margin over
borrowing rates, provided the projected debt/equity ratio is sustained at the
envisaged level of turnover. Assurances were obtained that future adjustments
to interest rates would be made only after prior consultation and in agreement
with the Association (Section 4.04, Draft Project Agreement).
62.       ABS' Credit Regulations of 1974 (para 48) provide a comprehensive
statement of the terms, conditions and procedures for ABS lending. They
provide adequate and acceptable rules for on-lending of Credit proceeds.
Agricultural Production, Marketing and Prices
63.       Production.  Between project inception and full development a
gradual build-up of yields and production has been projected, reflecting the
availability of credit, inputs, irrigation equipment, spare parts and
increasing farmer participation. ABS would also provide short term cash
advances to farmers in Umm Ruaba, thus enabling them to devote more time to
farming and improve production and yields through proper care of their
crops (para 47). In Umm Ruaba the Project's main result at full development
would be increased production of sesame (6,300 tons to 9,135) and groundnuts
(2,730 tons to 8,190).  In Abu Hamed the reintroduction of confectionery
groundnuts (10,500 tons) would provide 80 percent of the benefits with the
balance mainly from beans (2,240 tons to 3,360) and wheat (1,120 tons to
2,240). In Dongola about two-thirds of the production increase would accrue
from beans (2,160 tons to 4,455) and wheat (1,920 tons to 3,960).



- 21 -
64.       Marketing.  All crops to be grown under the subprojects, with the
exception of confectionery groundnuts in Abu Hamed, are now covered by market-
ing systems. At Umm Ruaba, responsibility for both marketing and storage
would rest with the cooperatives whose capability would be extended by Project
investments and would operate initially under the overall guidance of ABS.
At Abu Hamed and Dongola, crops other than confectionery groundnuts would
continue to be marketed through local traders. As to confectionery groundnuts,
inspection and marketing would initially be arranged by ABS in conjunction
with European agents and local traders.
65.       Prices.  Groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic are important sources of
foreign exchange for Sudan and contribute about 25 percent of total exports.
The reintroduction of confectionery groundnuts would provide an additional
source of foreign exchange. Incremental wheat production would reduce imports.
The prices used in the financial projections for these crops have been derived
on an export or import parity basis using World Bank projected prices and,
where these are not available, they have been taken on quoted world market or
local prices for like produce. Producer prices for the major commodities
produced in the subproject areas adequately reflect true market values and
provide the necessary incentives. Controlled marketing of confectionery
groundnuts, which had a negative effect, has been abandoned (para. 28). The
present lack of alternatives to the traditional credit system (para. 26)
increases producer costs, while lack of storage facilities frequently forces
farmers to sell when prices are low. Provisions for credit and storage
facilities included in the proposed Project would help improve net returns to
farmers.
Environmental Impact
66.       All chemicals currently used on crops in Sudan are tested for com-
pliance with prescribed specifications by residue analysis and are further
subject to field tests. If found acceptable, they are registered by the Pesti-
cide Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
(MAFNR), which controls the importation and use of pesticides. Application
would be done by manual spraying by farmers, under supervision of the ABS
supervision teams. However, the extensive use of pesticides will continue to
pose long-term risks until safer alternative chemicals become available at
affordable costs. Meanwhile, it would not be profitable to produce those
cash crops without chemical pest control.
Procurement
67.       With the exception of contracts described below, goods and civil
works financed from the Credit would be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with Bank Group Procurement Guidelines. To attract major contractors
and suppliers, items would be aggregated. Contracts for goods other than spare
parts, machinery and vehicles amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent



- 22 -
but more than US$10,000 and in aggregate estimated to cost not more than
US$1 million would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with existing Government procedures, which are acceptable to
IDA; contracts less than $10,000 equivalent and in aggregate estimated
not to exceed $200,000 would be procured off-the-shelf or by prudent shop-
ping. Spare parts and fuel for pumps, engines, tubewells and machinery
would be procured on the basis of quotations from manufacturers and dealers,
as appropriate. Incremental requirements for fertilizers, pesticides, seeds
and sacks would be procured in accordance with existing normal Government
procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Local manufacturers would qualify
for a preference equal to the duties and taxes otherwise levied on such
imports or 15 percent of the c.i.f. import price, whichever is the lesser.
Civil works contracts less than US$500,000 equivalent and in aggregate not
exceeding US$3 million would be awarded under LCB in view of the dispersed
nature of such works (branch offices, stores, staff housing). Civil works
contracts exceeding the above limitations would be awarded on the basis of
ICB, with a 7-1/2 percent preference for domestic contractors. Building
materials would be procured in accordance with LCB procedures or other
appropriate procedures acceptable to the Association. About 50 percent
of procurement under the proposed Credit would be through ICB. All procure-
ment would be carried out by ABS.
Disbursement
68.        Disbursement of funds from the proposed Credit would be on the
following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for agricultural machinery
and irrigation equipment (US$5.0 million);
(b) 50 percent of total expenditures for civil works (US$2.0 million);
(c) 60 percent of total expenditures for office and stores equipment
(US$0.4 million);
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for motor vehicles
(US$1.1 million);
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
and training (US$2.0 million);
(f) 50 percent of total expenditures for incremental annual farm
inputs (US$5.0 million);
(g) 50 percent, declining to 30 percent of total expenditures for
ABS incremental operating costs (US$0.4 million);
(h) 100 percent refunding of principal and charges outstanding under
project preparation advance (US$0.6 million).
US$1.5 million equivalent of the Credit would remain unallocated. Disburse-
ments would be fully documented. Disbursements for incremental annual farm
inputs would be based on the quantity increase over the previous year's actual
supplies by ABS for each subproject area. Disbursements for incremental
headquarters and branch operating costs would be made against statements of
expenditures. Supporting documents would be retained at ABS for inspection
during supervision. Review of these documents would be part of the audit
(para 56).



- 23 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
69.       Benefits.  The Project would strengthen ABS, thus enabling it to
develop its future lending in a manner commensurate with effective banking
practices. Implementation of the subprojects would increase production, for
export and domestic consumption, of grains, groundnuts, gum arabic, sesame,
fruit and vegetables. Based on projected export and import parity prices,
incremental production generated by the project would result in gross foreign
exchange earnings and savings, resulting from import substitution, of about
US$14 million per year at full development. Allowing for the foreign exchange
component of operating costs, net foreign exchange earnings would be about
US$12 million a year. In Umm Ruaba average annual farm returns, after servic-
ing loans extended by ABS, but before valuing farm family labor, would increase
from LSd 607 to LSd 960, equal to about US$171 per capita at full development.
The major beneficiaries would be about 6,000 farm families grouped into 30
cooperatives. In Dongola average annual farm returns, after servicing ABS
loans, but before valuing farm family labor, would increase from LSd 814 to LSd
1,863, or about US$233 per capita per year at full development. The major
beneficiaries in Dongola would be 1,500 families. In Abu Hamed, reintroduction
of confectionery groundnuts would significantly increase farm incomes from LSd
34 to LSd 184, or about US$230 per capita per year at full development for an
estimated 6,000 sharecroppers and from LSd 122 to LSd 272 or about US$340 per
capita per year for about 1,000 farm families. The employment impact in Umm
Ruaba and Abu Hamed would be an increase of farm family labor equivalent to
about 3,600 man-years each and in Dongola, 1,200 man-years.
70.       Economic Rates of Return.  The economic rate of return for the
subprojects, accounting for 75 percent of total project costs, is estimated to
be 33 percent. Individual economic rates of return are estimated to be: Abu
Hamed, 38 percent; Dongola, 17 percent; Umm Ruaba, 42 percent.
71.       Sensitivity Analysis and Risks.  Failure to restructure ABS as a
sound financial institution would lead to increasing losses in its lending
operations. Previous banking losses were in the past largely compensated for
by ABS' trading profits. However, apart from considerations regarding the
soundness of this situation, prospects for future income from ABS nonbanking
activities are doubtful. The implementation of measures to restructure ABS
as provided for in the Project is crucial in ensuring ABS- capacity to
implement activities in the subproject areas. Implementation of Project
provisions regarding technical assistance to ABS (para. 40), subscription
of the outstanding authorized share capital in 1982 and 1983 (para. 60),
revision of interest rates (para. 61), and loan repayments (para. 51) should
more than triple the income derived from interest on loans and return ABS to
profitability by 1984/85. By that year, income from lending is projected to
constitute about 75 percent of total income, compared with about 45 percent at
the present time. By 1984/85, the margin between ABS borrowings and its lend-
ing rate would provide the institution with a modest level of profitability,
provided the projected debt/equity ratio (0.4/1) and level of expenditures are
maintained. Net income levels are however based on conservative estimates of
ABS' non-project activities.



- 24 -
72.       A sensitivity analysis was carried out which shows that the Proj-
ect's rate of return is moderately resistant to adverse developments. Results
are more sensitive to reduced benefits than to increased costs. In Umm Ruaba,
a reduction of 26 percent in total benefits would have to take place before
the rate of return would drop below 10 percent, and a 53 percent reduction in
sesame benefits would be needed before this would occur on a single crop
basis. Sesame accounts for half the benefits in this subproject. The sub-
project does not provide for significant technological improvements and,
therefore, a large reduction in benefits is unlikely. In Abu Hamed, the
major benefits are achieved by reintroduction of confectionery groundnuts.
This subproject is, therefore, sensitive to area planted, yield, price and
delay in benefits. A 39 percent reduction in benefits resulting from a
combination of area planted, yield and price would have to occur to reduce
the return below 10 percent. In Dongola, a reduction in benefits by 13 per-
cent would reduce the rate of return below 10 percent. However, benefits
are derived from several crops and, therefore, the subproject is resistant to
single crop fluctuations. Beans would at least require a 38 percent drop in
benefits and wheat 40 percent, in order to reduce the rate of return below
10 percent, which is unlikely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Repub-
lic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Conditions for effectiveness, additional to those stipulated in the General
Conditions would be: (i) execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and ABS (para. 60); (ii) increase of ABS lending rates to
not less than 14 percent per annum on all its new loans (para. 61); (iii) con-
clusion of a management agreement between the Government and ABS for the
operation of the two silos at Gedaref and Port Sudan (para. 50); and (iv) set-
tlement of outstanding accounts between ABS and the Government and its agencies
(para. 49). Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and the
draft Project Agreement are listed in Section III of Annex III.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 9, 1981



-26 -                                               ANM=X I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                              ReFE&ENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEMES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)Y
TOLAL            2505.8                                       MOS. RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
.aCRICUCCRUAL     ,!5.2                  1960  /b    ;970  'b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOLIl vF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
FNP PER LAPITA (U15)                       140.0       170.0      370.0                  238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           54.2        151.6      141.4                   70.5                   707.5
POPLLAT1OS AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPLLATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    11256.0        14090.0   17862.0
URBAN POPILATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    10.3           16.4       23.9                   17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             31.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               86.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2105
POPULA}ION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             4.5          5.6        7. 1                 27.7                     55.0
PEh SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          37.0         46.0       55.1                  73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (FERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              43.7         43.7       44.1                  44.8                     46.0
15--64 YRS.                             53.2         51.4       53.1                  52.4                     51.2
65 YES. AUND ABOVE                       3.1          2.9i       2.8                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.9          2.2        2.6                   2.6                      2.8
URBAN                                   6.8          6.9        6.8                   6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BINTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          45.3         45.7       45.7                  46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          25.0         21.0       18.0                  19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.3          3.2        3.2                   3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANSNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..           ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               92.0        100.0      100.0                  89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        71.0         86.0      93.0                   90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               53.0         61.0       65.0                  52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            23.0         19.0       19.0                  17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          46.5         37.5       28.5                  27.3                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         39.2         43.2       47.3                  45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                   ..       132.0/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..       46.0                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                    ..           ..       49.0                  55.0                     74.3
RURAL                                    ..           ..       45.0                  18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         16.0       22.0                  26.2
UR6AN                                    ..           ..         ..                  63.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..        ..                   20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              33500.0      14304.6    8694.4                31911.8                  13844.1
POPLLATION PER NURSING PERSON          3041.0/d    1740.3    1282.6                  3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 951.0/d e   936.7/e   998.3                  1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                                 118.0t    188. 77-   444.9                    272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                4479.07    5213.37:  1742.0                   1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..       16.9
hOLSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..          5.1
URBAN                                    .5. S.7/f               ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
FOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          2.5/f
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINUS)
.OTAL                                    ..         26.4/f       ..
URBAN                                    .. .B.
RURAL                                    ..           ..
* Most recent estimate on economic mission report is US$470 (1980).



- 27 -                                           ANNEX I
iage 2
TABLE 3A
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIIAY:      TOTAL                  25.0         38.0       50.0                   56.4                    73.7
KALE                  35.0         46.0       58.0                   70.7                     96.8
FEtlALE               14.0         29.0       42.0                   50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   3.0          7.0       16.0                   10.0                    16.2
HALE                   5.0         10.0       20.0                   13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0       11.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   3.0             1.4_1     3.0/g,h                8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACliER RATIU
PRIMARY                             41.0         47.0       35.0                  46.5                     36.2
SECONDARY                           20.0         17.0       19.0                  25.5                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          13.1        14.7/i    20.0                    25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4          1.9         ..                    2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          17.0         79.0       82.8                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.8          3.2        5.9                    1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST`) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    4.0           ,,        1.6                    2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             ..        0.7                    1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL. LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3731.6       4623.1    5702.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.6         10.2       10.7                  34.1                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCFNT)               85.7         82.0       78.4                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.2          7.8        9.8                   8.6                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.2         32.8       31.9                   41.7                     37.2
MIALE                                 59.3         58.2       56.2                   54.3                    47.1
FEMALE                                 6.4           6.8       7.0                   29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.4       1.5                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.9/            ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  5O.1f         49.2/k
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0/f          5.1/k
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.97j         14.57        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      137.0                 136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       80.0                  84.5                    156.2
ESTIUATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      115.0                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                                  ..          ..      100.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  39.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       85.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages tor each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic meana.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; fIr 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1970-73 average;  /d 1962;  /e Covernment hospital establishments;  /I  1965;  /g Beginning 1970, the
duration of general secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years;  /h Includes programs of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and
Sport;  /i 1966;  /i 1963, Omdurman  urban;"  /k 1967-68.
May, 1981



- 28 -                                                                        ANNEX  I
Page 3
DffITIfIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note.;  Although the attun .. men from  sorc.  geeely judged the eoIuhriet                        'ed rettcle  ci sh         l-h ntdta   hy cay ctbe Inter-
neieey   bopeetohceeeo  ie  bn f                eteufted.dfinitinb         tdroipteotd'b  diftrutccuru   Or coottgnt  e..  Th. dot  -re. tone-
=hAce. Ilefl to d...ibe ordete of .egoitodc. ildjoene trede, eud thee-t-i-e recoie  mur dofferenn. b-t-n  -octiec-
The  eeecegop  etc- i) the e.e .i.on.ry en-P of tie . echet coun try ted (21 e                         -outr  ecpeitheoett  tidier unerge Illn   ha             ttty   ru
ofib    ujctcutry  (ccyt for "`ePit-l SorPlue Oil  ooeee                   -etc  when. "Middle Ifroer Nort  Ai  et  MIddle S..r"
feoit   f h  ccinbeIAegru  ho  dent for. thnidrtd              .tue  i   oeeg   frucrc   nn tin  .Ind -ohn Jepde  rcereetctyfct
one inicatoron e te. tL.  tie      fcuttyeu    Illrnn   gnioopa..        h       I       '    t             Ih11             11lc        h.-1bllyI
LADdih  thtuctdt*q.A.)                                                                         yopthtio T   er roepttol it; 1 .. :c,   Lbat t-lrp-      h PpLoo    cb
T-ioion  -tteeeo  egiu nluoed  cen d nmepreolp onpnEeny                                            niel    L.cbt  n  yn-:unt                ludnntlodbmle   o
forrrpa  petre,ceht end kitchen gorde..o.              t l ieJ fel11-; 1975 den.                hbltnbontre               incr       r  toicoi totr......tentyeefe
bytornoeibtclc    Boc) eort    rc-di t pI               `ontty       "'o
GeNP PER CAfITA 1US0)   G tu  Pen cepit.ctmnee   oretare    rce  -el-                               diel rere ure Ott ir      t.d   boro-  hotyttule  toc, Ilcide hielti
Mueedb   tatnnnio  eid ec WorldhokAee(979bet)  1960,                                        end cedioc-l tr   otpr.rnt  otoffnd by e phyeliot_ (itbyI
1970, end1979 dune.                                                                               edtleeaet,oce,cdo,o     otIro ofini On-purli-  erc.--
INER  CtONJEittTISN fER CoPITd - MeoltIsopto    f coacroit  ...eegy (roel                           nine1 ponPocee unban hompittle toclode  ~OO   t rbtrhgcer   boptle,
ted lignite, pernee           -1tu  gee eod bydr-, nuoleo  ted geothoree  eler-                   cd  -in  hohi -ib   c        - on noto   irplicle   ,.d recil end  etetit
teirin) on kbognee   of-eIqonle   pen cepico; 1960, 1970, end 1979                          om  Ste    prrilioed booploleor  tobde Jtl  otd-t Lotel
dtei,nieitu  ne  toptnu Ol                                                                                                    -   itttoit o  udieoe  tc   iebnn
POPUIRTIPItdie AN VITAL STATISTICS
Tntel Popoletn., Mid-Teen(thoc..eodel - A.cof Jolyl1; l96f, 19707..ed 1979                    HOUINGtl
Were.                                                                ~~~~~~~A-ount Sito  ojfj;l~4jyrnohld        it    nIl)-. t5                    ld total 
inuel-P Footno   (rreo f toe)            ltic of orulbclt toe-    oplnit                          A hoceb.d..      utethf   soc  oI ilodottdel. erho   bi.lnn.ct
diffren  defilin   ofobooa    r  efo    oprhiy  Loieed  hi   uo  ee        ,rdr   n   dorcy  -r ocy oih    lded to
tang oouuniee; 196, 1)71, od 1979 Once,                                                 t hn.c.ebold for_ tttie    ~p_too
froimoclor penueroets to  cortelimy reneW  repriec of ntre. I.n.l  tes-ceop ied ptIt
benl,te  fwoe  lfrenpeneoyetbilielog  en77.5Tee.Tepre                                    onetoe  dnmfleg  ton  nlorcty II lining qout--e
ect  ton 'ertlty rce  te  hv  tirme lends tecee   e ln   no   ocl   n ,ed r-elOni lot-np-ti-mly.
te-tilityuooonding  to  ~ tooe  boclfund petfatly plennnerefomeie
BEth outyI  theeeeg              n  of thee. tn   ocionticue cItnoneiny                          ONCTI9
endfetilIty trade  fto  Arlrtccuoen                                                       dJoened tonole1n ...e tice
Bretoner  roodenootnute  icoey pflnonter   t    grot   lc                                       reettb-             otl   otedfcen-Oe  ecte, c lt  o  tecle
,be lith bren   te coce  to the Wench ner.-   nd eleri. th    e etonnco                          nnlcn  ti el...teet en  he  ien    ee  n   eceee f n.m.eotti
_oins  inntnt      Iomb  urbiend noly utte  f-nnilitip ren     detlioc to                       piny totolug   popo.ettoe  to            l  in-toWee oholdie  eged b-IS
the  cleen   lend,--   o. f-ci   e  cioont   rune,  he  nod  geeeno                            yeere hot edjontedto   dif -ici  ooni  orpieyfoein   o
nf ecen ompetee Ieelt  ccly Th  etioeyprlt                 ice   :til                  ro ctroI 0t   onenI ed1tto   erbenicye- td:0  eo
ecli-tetd      h.cb  beete of the.... prjetd tAunnitr   f tic pepuletiot                        emit eomn Pol1e et  ibno  oombi   flte                  tho   g.8
inhm  yee- tol,  o  tin coi  c  deltnn of f-Itlily nct- to neitete-                         tcoderrehocl  - toe:* 1o~    fred e               --toy   n  oe       --nseode-i
cent lend.                                                        edoretton reqoirne on leatt foon ironer P oprrcncd prOnery in-ietIrqottOt-o;.-   _
elebebnonetd.                                                                         .e.elly of 3  tl 17         Iofte   oieynenerore   r.  enely
.r   .2eniook.lridy -                       .eno..lII              .c.ed.f                                                                l
toe  ene  l960, 197 0-cd 1979 dune.ioldtebul. i-onnn.  eou                                                                                 rornetith opertittdem
Pet en  en   nn lcrl  ed - C..p-te  cc ato.. for   iootni mod                                     etyo   tApieoeo   etdt   ntntoe
only; 106. 1901970    970 Atn_oi-te    iini     iey  end  -meccodoy-fonl eItodncuoillnd  in L
rrcele1thnooe  nnet   Cibldre   (h-li  -eene,  -nnkn-oge (ci-                                       orteeny end e-rodery 1-onl  ~Ioded by tuchre o  th.ci   t  i
61 yeen), ed rctined (65 yeene _ndon _n(e           yimttgeecIeid-ycnrcy-                         c-reerndinf 1-nl..
hotn  lh,1970, end 1979 duct..                                                                  eduin1  nurte.tetct- tieeed e(bet  eded trite)
GooelnI.ooi nte  trmt - oe                   geo l ntcwntnte   o   oele                       espenn -ge of  otel edl  poI           e o   g   1   en   e   vn
feet pcp"intl.n  for 105-60, 1960-70. nd 197G- 79.
feole-ct  GOtnwn  nu.- _imne-a) - utb.  - Aaeul gici -ei-  of -rn  oe-                        oonctTo
lotions ton 195060-h, 1960-70. ted 1970-79.                                                  P ..eMenuen  _epJ.rnoec  coltcl-Peeeo   ee  otleao
bride Birth hot   ret    ..umnd    Annual lire hint~ .epe  thoceen4 of eid-ye-                    tueIoie(a   hen eight p.n..;...                de   cilnos  heenems end
popo1tei-n; 1960, 1970. end 19 79 fete.                                                         elltttyeiit.
Cnode Death hoce Inen ehoeed) - Aoneel de-hs no or ene  f nid-yeer                              RdAm  Rorein... fr tho... Id rnceio) -. b   typee of  -etin   fin  o-dic
opolun.ion; 1960, 1970, end 1979 d.te.                                                          byte.drnen  genene1 poblit yen thoc..end of nptto;e                      o
irecnnndoto  hn-A-rerge oceh- of dedgihen-    onu ill beti                              ttnednoinrincotenndn yenetc   eIetee in  o-ndin
hen --tIn neynodc..tl- period if mh. eupenbe.oes premeen  eg..eer. fi tc-en   e   ncfr;dn   onion.yuenynth   opec                                                      ic
niLeptuc        -solly fin-y-t  veee  ceding4 in160.90..W99                                    notoenrcolbotishdIineog
of birth-ic-ro1 denioem  coder  ..etnocef ctne  fu y pl-ettg ynge.gentpb                                        p1iyen t   Iced pnuairo lnrtdcenumn               tneewn
eli cunnbn  _oee  In e_e  Eec troi                                                              oueiop   o  "foilycereitceneneo.dfndeep iori
p,odotic  o  eltfn-d,  Iarii.e.  Poedutninceooe.eeded feed end                                  tikthn   -Ild during the y-eer       .d,tcldnddletenWin-to cibae
L.on rLcoden  bcu  huim.  bC.ditikec-oc   iniene  goode (e.g.  oge-oonc                         end ehile unite..
Ineted of c.lou) nhch en  edible end  nne... i uniet  (e.g. r.ffee end
enrcclodad).  AgFgreget  p-cd-itr  rf azh  -eoncy Le bet..d on                         WMll  Ftftb
ceitunet eneege pro..oe  prirencoighlt; 196-1-65, 1970, end 1979 Ant.                  -os  to   Fnro  ith-....            toatnlycie   eee,  oidu
enery eotnlen  ofncrford eei te  bni lhi  So rnonny yen rentie                         or-rtn   piae  o f nil eene    nintnt.oe  to  -ttiutnitetnt
pen  ' dey.     '    'P..  ...tbl  e;pi P copimedeeb" rdoln   eor   een    ophm   1960. 1970 nod 107D9 dot.1
cooo..sd hegsIn snok.  Ne.t  cppinen ,dA.enia1 feed, ene,de,                          Feel   ptren.eer) - Foo1e lo~b-tfrecpnetg   fitl iefne
,-uiini,:ueod I  fond p.....ebog, end t.ee.. in ditoibbutie.l  hoqite-                     hti-lttone ( -coet  - teho  _ct  ofee ,irety  huniung end
_.nt. _er  eutleetd by FAD b..eed on phyetntrgbcn1 needs Ion tee1 enti-                       fiehine t  pretnof --tel'bebo  forte  7960. 1970 nod 199 dune
oncy end irli   nnoeio  entcenLtmmpneor,inyceIne   neIdutr   necot-ino  Onn      tnne   ottotioiaufoonn
te  e . dietitboio  of poynlenino, ned eJ..og10.      Iten  ornc  en                     ed  Itnotnitiiy,  -ete  end g.e etprce-nge of I.tel lebor fei   1960,
hee I _dier; 1961-65, 1970, end 1917 dWuno.                                             1977 en.d 1979 Ante.
Per ...nite  -nly of oRocein (ost e  d.y  - PneTei  ontolf pe  uie                           Pennrlinenlc  noe  (nnnt  - tnt-   note, et   f !s-fenoPeio0
qonccnn  foru   nontie  steblished byfUSIA peonde o-                ltn                      ptaea    f nte.ane-n tIet  pc` ittoncfelettnstttte
n11enenne  60f igRee of cteI pn-ic pot Wey end RI gv-e  of eteet end                          196C. 1970, ned 1979 Attn.  Th..eeeneb. hosd c   10   etntn    ee
nteptenof chint 10 gElee ehold be ente-b protein.. t..c  ....nd-                     nntotcog-nnttttun   of  npoulnn -,ec  irog ti-. nr-d.A
ene  veiwc  ta  thoen of 75 ge.e of not1 Protein ned 23 gEseo.e-stater frc   otttoooo
enSeel ~  ~      6165 I prti   o    eeecfo   h    eld. pnredby rhO in, the Thind     frneoOnner   ei  -htoo   oottnuder 15 .od 65 et d e
Orrl  food toney; 1961-60,1970 end 197  Ace                                           otettlInbcI font
Pen redine  .nnt.i  mog.L  ' fr. ende   end rule  - 'noeir conplf of food de-
rived fine enitle eod p.1te.. in gEee pon dny; 1961-65, 197C end 1977 dent..             focoe DISTRIBU'TION
Child(us19   eetitM.(e   hced  - Sonne  detha per thocend inLnetoeo P                                           rirece Inic   (boh to  eb end keod) - ho-ined  , iy rr)-O
ege gonp 1-Iymooa  cv  hildce  to i  this      nu;foratdeo-oion  con                      5 penet.       h..... ennn,ponn  20 pnrent, end Proto  cc Porten
tntee dent deniced trot life teblto; l9bS, 1971 end; 1979 dete.                                 of iombl
BOALIB                                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GOUStf
Life Oronerye  Birth (ee    A-I.oreg  ocbet cf reo- f life tettinig                             Th   oinn    nlec   o   oyeyoinesace   frnim                             lenlo
enho I; 190. 1977 end1979 Atndn   hodh   nepeo    b   tontdtal  nu fti-t.
SfnBrtlicytet,     pnthoed    Annaldeni   f toet   oe-n en                               ttard Ahondboni-    .....t Inceh  tone  (00  nc trie.-M            bned   oe 
of tee Petined    bm hite(booe  oet0on1tnli  hninr2et-                                                                                                    ea  ho      ode
Ancesnohemnenr (enren o  rtuleic.tz.Žyn. unv n  en  roet   BO-                         ttrlni .nulty edeninte diet p-u.te tenie1 non-food reqinc--t  tc not
hen n  ratio  (toteS  ote. ed nce)titbettetuieen    fIenn,e
wene   npt  (ctue  tste   oneennreo  utreedbt  oonetntd                             eiae   httiefcerotnoa  eetinSrt ettS-  nteed  oee 
ottr  oo  totir  reeprtetedboeilee  nntne,en  mninnyonleltaioe2n0oib   nttdtiy  micat  ico                                .ino Iethtd efiterdg  pen,!  r-It
fieni  o  eudyectceo   ot  r   tenlt  ner  fo   emueco   e                                entAni  dotatd orin-r  on  ftiIo.e,rh    nee
donthr    ispend e d1.leprcpreion-   port of tie dey In fntthii   the                    ."                       ...i.              -     I1
pernee    f chain  -cp-ileiyiti-     oc   tctet  diept...lIeey inclde
oh. telleotio- end diepta..b. Anti in eltIro         enen    f in-u  cemet.                                                          Ett...oct erA  Sntie1 hon   i  tint
end _. nen-wte  by at-   nesa~o  the con of pin pnintem  end eift                                                              troronicoelcl  ed ProettneSee-en
Prnnitticn an  Ph'irei-i    - fopulutico dinided by nobhe  of pectnicing physi-                                                                            16
riens qoelifitd Pr,. o adie1  chtilnt ni-dnnenity I...t.
Poolicn  eonocl   ero  -                 dnueinAi"ded by nanbet c  pn-ntiolg
aeeeferendceet-     e     oroite   on..et  ed ..i



-  29 -                                        ANNEX 1
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.            X                                      1972/73-1977/78
GDP at Market Prices            8,279.1            100                                            8.0
Gross Domestic Investment    1,188.1             14.4                                            11.4
Gross National Saving             645.1            7.8                                           -2.6
Current Account Balance           542.0            6.5                                          -30.6
Exports of Goods, NFS             701.0            8.5                                           -2.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           1,437.0          17.4                                             9.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added 2/                   Labor Force 2/                   V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.        %_               Mln.             X                US $       % (of average)
Agriculture                      1,681         41.2              3.25           68.7                517              59.9
Industry                           657         16.1              0.30            6.3              2,190             253.8
Services                         1,745         42.7              1.18           24.9              1,479             171.4
Total/Average              4,083         100.0             4.73           100.0                863            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1979/80
(LSd. Mln.)                       % of GDP
Current Receipts                                  643                               15.4
Current Expenditure                               672                               16.1
Current Surplus                                   -29                               -0.7
Capital Expenditures 4/                            164                               4.4
External Assistance (net)                         238                                5.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                      1974/75       1975/76        1976/77       1977/78        1978/79       1979/80
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                                   292.5         369.6          530.0         669.1          877.0        1,047.5
Bank Credit to Central Government              212.8         300.8          466.0         593.5         913.7         1,130.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector and              296.7         393.3          432.5         490.8         652.9           814.3
Parastatals
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)                 21.1            1.6          17.9          16.7           37.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                    37.6          41.4           54.9          27.4           54.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   48.4           32.6          10.0          13.5           33.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly
of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available.
Not applicable.
EA2DB
April, 1981



ANX 1
-   30  -                                            Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTI)MATE';                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAE 1977/78-79/80)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80                                            US $Mln. 
'llions US $)
Exports Goo)dc, NFS                708        701        699        833             Cotton                         315.7       56.7
Imports Goods, NFS               1,192      1,437      1,345      1,611             Gum Arabic                      38.3        6.9
Resource GAP                      -486       -736       -646       -779             Groundnuts                      39.6        7.2
Sesame                          41.3        7.5
Interest MLT Debt (net)            -51        -51        -69        -49             Other                          122.5       21.7
Other Factor Payments (net)         --         --         --         --                Total                       557.4      100.0
Transfers                          173        221        240        209
Current Balance                   -362       -566       -475       -619 1/
Public Grants                       11         24         17          84            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECZMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.            324        210        405        532
Public MLT Loans, amort.           -57        -66        -55        -90                                                   US $ HMln
Total Public, net                  267        144        350        442             Public Debt,    . guaranteed           2       2
Increase in Arrears                345        325        309         93             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Change Net Foreign Assets           -2         76         -6         48 /a          DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
(-   increase)
Errors and Omissions b/           -259         -3       -195        -48             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          35.0 d/ 3/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              ..
Gross Reserves (end year) c/        23         22         27         33             Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE e/                                           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 31, 1981) (Hillion US $):
Annual Averages    End Period                                                            IBRD          IDA
1977      1978   Aug 79  Sep 79       Outstanding and Disbursed                       128.5          196.7
Undisbursed                                     30.7          326.3
LSd 1 = US$          2.872    2.662   2.500   2.000        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                   159.2          523.0
Effective:
LSd 1 = US$          2.500    2.225   2.000         --
Parallel Market:
LSd 1 = US$             --        --       --   1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Based on IMF statistics (line 1. d of IFS) which accounts for the variations between this line and the reserves
implicit from the proceeding line.
d/ Based on amounts owed, not what was actually paid.
e/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/subsidy
charges. After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established for transactions
other than a limited category including government purchase and a few "essential" items.
Not available.
EA2DB
April, 1981
1/ Current account deficit for 1980/81 is estimated-at US$750 million.
2/  Current estimate:  (for June 1981) US$3,200 million.
3/  Current estimate:  (for June 1981) 40 percent.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of September 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.      Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and nine Credits fully disbursed:                 127.2  119.7
Credit 364-2    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)              20.0      5.1
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                    10.0      4.8
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                        23.0      1.0
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance             4.0      0.7
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                      9.0      8.4
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation        20.0      -      20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan       Savannah Development            17.0     16.5
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                      8.0      3.0
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV               12.0      -       7.2
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                           22.0       4.4
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing             25.0     23.6
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III          16.0     12.8
Credit 834      1978    Sudan        Agricultural Research           15.0     12.1
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                     41.0      31.0
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project          15.0      11.2
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                      65.0      42.3
Credit 1006      1980    Sudan       Third Power Project            65.0      58.2
Credit 1022      1980    Sudan       New Halfa Rehab. Project       40.0      39.8
Credit 1118      1981    Sudan 1/3/ Blue Nile Pump Rehab. Proj.   32.0        32.0
Credit 1119      1981    Sudan 1/3/ White Nile Pump Rehab. Proj.  35.0        35.0
Credit 1153      1981    Sudan 1/3/ Second Technical Assistance
Project                        6.0       6.0
Total                                                  159.2  587.7
of which repaid                                      84.2    7.3
Total now outstanding                                   75.0  580.4
Amount sold                                  5.8
of which repaid                            5.8         -       -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                             75.0  580.4
Total Undisbursed                                       27.2  347.9    375.1
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   IDA 6 Credits, US Dollar equivalent of SDR's at time of negotiations.



- 32 -
AiNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                     (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                   Obligor                            Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972          Textiles                                    1.9    0.3        2.2
1976         Cotton Textile Mills                          8.7    1.3       10.0
1978         Seleit Food Production Ltd.                  11.2    1.2       12.4
1978         Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.               6.7    1.4        8.1
1980         Promotional Cement Company                     -      0.2       0.2
1982         White Nile Petroleum                           -      0.3       0.3
Total gross commitments                      28.5    4.7      33.2
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                      6.9    0.3       7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC            21.6    4.4      26.0
Total undisbursed by IFC                      1.2    0.8       2.0
C. STATUS OF PROJECT IN EXECUTION 1/
As of September 30, 1981
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$42.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and US$20.0 million Supplemental Credit of July 11, 1975;
364-2           Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973 and November 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced production in 1977 with cotton
grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total project). Major project
civil works have now been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with
154,000 feddans under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
300,000 feddans. Project implementation has been delayed because of continuing
managerial, financial and logistical problems; cotton yields also have been
disappointing and there is a severe shortage of labor for harvesting crops. A
final work program has been agreed in order to complete project activities by
the Closing Date.
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The second project is some 18 months behind the original 1975
appraisal schedule. The delay is due to the lack of construction material,
transportation difficulties and weakness in project management. Some change
in project scope has been necessary in surmounting these difficulties.
Physical execution of the project is improving, with the award of the bulk of
the construction contracts, although transportation remains a constraint.
Close monitoring of the project is to continue.
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program. However, delays in award of contracts for civil works at
the Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and the Juba diesel
station are likely to delay commissioning of various components of the Project
by about two years. The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at
appraisal and the Government has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the
OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has
increased its electricity tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs
by 200 percent. Before the closing date, June 30, 1981, the Association
entered into special commitments. Completion of arrangements involved were
subsequently delayed. Upon his completion the Credit account will be closed
and the undisbursed amount cancelled.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
All funds are fully committed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 643   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Loan No. 1287T   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems resulted in delays in project implementation; in
addition, the project has encountered serious financial problems. Tenders for
construction of the Wau and Malakal airports came in at levels far above the
appraisal estimate and retendering was initiated, based on revised design and
bills of quantities. However, the new tenders also came in at levels substan-
tially greater than available financing. With the increased costs the project
is no longer justified and actual implementation has been deferred. At expiry
of the closing dates (September 30, 1981) the Loan and Credit accounts were
closed and the remaining balances cancelled.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, cannot be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. At consolidated project has
been approved and Credit 718 will be cancelled upon effectiveness of
the new project.
Credit No. 727   Fourth Railway Project: US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and        and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Loan No. 1467T   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well. Rapidly rising
prices, along with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the
project, may necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is
being provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European
Development Fund.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Project works are well underway.



- 35 -
JURNEX Ti
Page 5
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquarters building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corporation (LMMIC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LMMC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, as well as light locomotives.
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The second Mechanized Farming project (Credit 311) was closed on
December 30, 1980 and an undisbursed balance of US$3.6 million cancelled on
March 5, 1981. The objectives of the third project are to (a) help present
users of mechanized farming methods become more productive, and (b) support
programs designed to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders.
These objectives will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the
extension activities of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of
adaptive trials and related research, access road building, importation of
spare parts for the mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and
strengthening of the MFC. The project became effective eight months later
than expected. Late appointment of staff and delayed procurement will prevent
full implementation of agronomy and farm machinery trials during the 1980/81
season. A draft study of MFC's future functions is being discussed with
Government.
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have been
agreed.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 6
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The first highway project (Credit 331) was closed on June 30, 1980.
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and construction work has started. Technical assistance to the
Southern Region is under way.
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), is assisting the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help iierease
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million is sup-
plementing the program. This program is progressing well and the second
tranche has been approved for release by senior management. All funds have
been fully committed and studies have been completed.
Credit No. 1006 Third Power Project: US$65.0 Million Credit of April 17,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand through
1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1022  New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project:  US$40 million
Credit of May 15, 1980; Effective Date: February 18, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1118 Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$32.0 million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase cotton
export earnings by means of stepped-up production in existing irrigation
schemes. The project would, over a five-year period, rehabilitate the
Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC) and provide
agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton cultivation in the rest of the
BNAC area. The African Development Fund is confinancing.
Credit No. 1119 White Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project:
US$35.0 million Credit of March 27, 1981; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project is one of a series of rehabilitation/modernizaton
efforts under the irrigated subsector. It is designed to support the Govern-
ment's Export Action Program. The White Nile project would help achieve this
objective by rehabilitating, over five-years, some 174 ongoing pump schemes
along the White Nile south of Khartoum.
Credit No. 1153-SU Second Technical Assistance Project; US$6.0 Million Credit
of July 2, 1981; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: March 1,
1985
The second technical assistance project builds on the first but is
significantly different in that in addition to assistance for project prepara-
tion it provides a wider range of assistance for project implementation and
macroeconomic management. Specifically, it provides assistance for improving
accountancy training, for improved tendering and procurement operations in
the central government, for debt management and national accounts.



- 38 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:  Twenty six months
(b)  Preparation by:                    Government/REMEA
(c) Initial Discussions with
Association:                       November 1977
(d)  First Bank Mission:                November 1977
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:       February 1980
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:        July 8, 1981
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  March 30, 1982
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
On November 26, 1980 the Association agreed to a Project Preparation
advance of US$600,COO to ensure uninterrupted preparatory activities and
to enable an early project start when approved (para. 58).
III. Special Conditions
Special Conditions for effectiveness additional to those stipulated
in the General Conditions would be:
(a) settlement of outstanding accounts between ABS and the
Government and its agencies (para. 49);
(b) conclusion of a mangement agreement between Government
and ABS for the operation of silos (para. 50);
(c) execution of subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 60);
(d) increase of ABS' effective interest charges to not less
than fourteen percent per annum on all its new Loans (para. 61).



- 39 -
ANNEX Ill
Page 2
Other special conditions include;
(a) submission, not later than September 30, 1982, of ABS'
proposal for implementation of consultants' recommendations
and implementation of agreed recommendations not later than
September 30, 1983 (para. 48),
(b) submission by ABS of action plan and schedule for collection
of past dues not later than September 30, 1982 (para. 51),
(c) relief of ABS- present obligation to pay interest on paid-
up capital (para. 52),
(d) provision of Agricultural Research Corporation services in
Abu Hamed for field trials and multiplication of confectionary
groundnut seeds (para. 55),
(e) provision of National Water Authority services to farmers
in Dongola to assist in tubewell water extractiorn (para. 55);
(f) completion of registration of land titles in the Saleim Basin,
not later than December 31, 1983 (para. 55); and
(g) subscription by the Bank of Sudan to ABS' authorized share
capital to an amount of Sudanese pounds 7 million (para. 60).






f   n   Z  \   (   o   ,.  >  )   Yl   t  i  ^  *  03 2  a   *   *  D~~~~~~~~> 
f   r  0   '   w    D   j  *  i'  CJ   4'   i  +  \  r   1  R  a  X   3  D  '  2  Am~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 
,fa  Z  j  Xs  -1 ' g | X t > m w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ------ m-<RN)iQS'
NU'Sy  a:X                         ;
----------~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



